ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Margaret Golińska, Wojciech King, Arkadiusz Myrcha and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, Mr Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Sylvester Tułaev will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Margaret Golinska and Arkadiusz Myrch. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - immediately after the end of the votes, i.e. about an hour. 11.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights - 30 minutes after the end of the votes, about an hour. 12. In addition, I am informing you of the meeting of the parliamentary team. The Parliamentary Group will meet today. Supporting the Missionary Works and the Polish Ministry - hour. 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u3	Thank you, sir. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for the selection of a candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The opinion is in print 2221. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the Article clause. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] There's an objection, right? [[I'll justify the objection.]] Mr Budka wants to justify opposition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the fifth time a parliamentary majority in this room will break the constitution. Once again, you are trying to convince us that you will elect a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's clear to everyone that the understudy is still an understudy. The inclusion of this on the agenda means that you do not respect the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was even published by former Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Once again, you prove that the Constitutional Tribunal is a place for you to divide the spoils. You don't want to talk about the Constitution because you don't respect this constitution. You do not want to do what is obvious: swearing in the right person in 2015. Let me remind you, my dear marshal, High Izbo, that in this case a final judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has been taken. I would like to remind you that in December 2015 it was made clear that the election of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was made in accordance with the Constitution. This time, the High House will not only break the basic law for the fifth time, but will also do even worse: the Constitutional Tribunal will include a party officer who, yesterday at the committee meeting, did not even know whether he was formally a member of the PiS or whether this membership had already expired. Therefore, in the light of the Article, 7 Constitution, which expressly states that the authorities of the Republic of Poland operate within the limits and on the basis of the law, I ask the marshal to remove this item from the agenda and to ask President Andrzej Duda to swear in the properly elected judge of the tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u5	Thank you, sir. I understand that your motion will be resolved by voting on the issue of opposition. Of course, here I am explaining to the High House that I understand that this opposition can also refer to the deadline, because tomorrow is a 7-day deadline. As I said, however, art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 says: unless the Seym decides otherwise. We will therefore resolve this matter by voting. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Adam Snapshot on the same case, right? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] So far, no. Right now, we're gonna settle the issue of opposition. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, i.e. who is in favour of the proposal I have presented, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 232 voted against - 159, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the application and thus rejected the opposition. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 2227. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. At the moment, the formal proposal will be presented to Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The case concerns a formal proposal for the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, which is the item on the current agenda. I would like to make a formal request for an adjournment so that an additional representative of the government may come and explain one thing in connection with the consideration of this point. And now I wanted to justify it. Do you remember the MPs, the Marshal of the Ryvin affair that took place a few years ago? Then a well-known businessman, a film producer, relied on his connections with the authorities and on his financial capacity, volunteered to one of the newspaper editors and offered to introduce specific provisions in the bill. Imagine the situation that a well-known businessman, a well-known businessman who owns private television, has a very strong connection with the authorities, using public funding from specific ministries, suddenly reveals that he got two luxury cars from an unknown source, and says that he got these cars from a homeless person, which means there is no justification. Therefore, I believe that this point should include a special service coordinator and explain whether the Central Anti-corruption Office will investigate this case, because if the known entrepreneur Tadeusz Rydzyk, who is connected directly with the power receiving public money from this authority, gets two luxury cars from an unknown source, then the CBA should check whether there has been protection there, whether there has been any connection with the authorities. This is a matter that is absolutely scandalous, and I think that the state services should check how it happens that an entrepreneur with strong ties to power receives from someone, from an unknown source of cars, saying that it is from a homeless person. It's as likely as 80 times he's won roulette. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The CBA should check it out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u7	Thank you very much. The Member has applied for a break. I will put this proposal to the vote, but I will explain earlier to you and to the High House that this item will be considered as the last point of the current session of the Sejm. This is the first reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, print no. 2191. Here, High Sejm, based specifically on art. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, about the entire chapter on dealing with draft laws implementing European Union law, the Marshal of the Sejm sets out a timetable for the work. I know from the government that the Sejm should start work in January, otherwise there will be various consequences, perhaps financial, and therefore I have decided that the first reading of this draft law will take place today, while we will start work in this way, and your comments, please, Mr President, present during the debate at first reading. What's next with this bill? If there is opposition, a motion for rejection at first reading, we will settle this at the next session of the Sejm, perhaps at another one, I do not say that at the nearest one. There is a request for interruption and I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 156 voted against 256 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on government departments. The Sejm carried out the first reading of the draft law and decided to join the second reading immediately, in which no amendments were tabled. We therefore proceed to the third reading. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the draft law on departments, I would like to say that, despite our great desire, we cannot understand why you would like to give Deputy Prime Minister Glinski the power to deal with the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. Since the Minister is going to shape public space, perhaps the government depends on his decision to build monuments of Lech Kaczyński in this public space. Second shift on the guns. In the current government, we have the largest number of ministers and vice-ministers in history. And yet the Prime Minister is taking it on his shoulders, and you're throwing the whole M+ plus KZN program on his shoulders. This is an ordinary spoil of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u9	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2201, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 261 voted against 148 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on government departments. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2207. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2207, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 407, against - 3, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Insurance Distribution Act. We return to the consideration of item 17. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for homeless people, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. The discussion requested that the draft law be sent to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer the draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the three committees mentioned above. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u10	I wanted to ask about social housing, because in this bill some topics are very well organized, while there are many gaps and question marks. First of all, how will it be financially possible to make up for these expenses when it comes to municipalities? How do you want to secure the state of social housing that is needed in every municipality for the most deprived? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u11	Thank you. The question is asked by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point, I would like to ask you, however, that this draft be sent to three committees and not, as recommended by the Bureau, to two, i.e. to the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on Infrastructure. I believe that the ease of obtaining a housing stock entails a broad sense of responsibility, and I believe that it should develop, promote the sense of responsibility for acquiring such goods, and I therefore recommend that this project be addressed to the Social Policy Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u13	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of submitting the bill as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 255, against - 158, with three abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2203. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2203, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - no one, with 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on persons, associations and groups who may be suspected of promoting totalitarian state systems and calling for hatred against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences or because of non-denominationality. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the information. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Your Honor! High Seym! [[Voice from the courtroom: Judge? Ooh...]] [[A prophet.]] Court, court, because they're gonna judge you for what you're doing when it comes to promoting... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Is Censorship in effect or not?]] [[Get used to it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u15	I would like to point out to you that you are in front of the High House, so speak before the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u16	No tolerance to racism and people who promote totalitarianism. But who's been making excuses all this time, ignoring them, saying there's no problem if there's a couple of people in the bushes? Only who has so far underestimated and tried to justify a brown wave on the streets of Warsaw? [[Voice from the room: Platform.]] Which minister sang to himself about what Poland would look like with Mr. Rybak? Who underestimated and understood the attacks during the CODE demonstration, the ONR attacks in Radom? Who's responsible for this? And you have the audacity to say that you are not responsible for this disastrous image of Poland everywhere in the world, since you have tolerated this kind of behavior all the time? Today you say zero tolerance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so far...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u17	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u18	...you've been absolving it all along. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[What is it, marshal? How are you acting? How embarrassing are you?]] [[Mr. Marshal, disable Trzaskowski?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u19	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, end the speech. Mr Robert Winnicki, Member of the non-member, has the floor. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] There you go. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said yesterday, anyone who wears the Nazi uniform and worship of Hitler after World War II in Poland is leaving the Polish national community. [[Come down, man.]] And it is very good that in Poland we do not imagine that there will be a Nazi party of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] It is very good that this group, which in this forest held a curiosity, grotesque party, meets with widespread outrage. [[Disgraceful!]] It is a pity that this is why the weekly hysteria is being filmed, which presents Poland in such a light on the day of the arrival of the US Secretary of State to Poland. [[Disgraceful!]] It is a pity that Members of the Sejm of the Republic are taking part in this. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] On the other hand, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the question arises as to why in Polish public space there is a party that uses sickle and hammer, communist symbols. Why is the Polish state affected by this kind of imposibility? Therefore, on my own behalf, as a Member of the National Movement, I address Mr Marshal [[♪ The bell ♪]] to ask the Constitutional Tribunal to delegalise the Communist Party of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u21	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout, please don't make any other sounds. [[But the marshal is selective.]] It's serious. There's no need for aggression here. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This point should be called the government's bullshit about the fact that there's no problem. Minister Brudziński! Yes, you shouldn't explain it, but what you said yesterday... You said 20 minutes, half an hour, and you didn't say anything. And you should bring the collar to the High Chamber of your predecessor, Mariusz Błaszczak, who pretended not to see racist slogans on the national march. You should be the one who should be brought here, in front of the High House, the minister of Ziobra, whose prosecutor's office has dropped cases concerning the leader of the Pride and Modernity Association. It was Minister Ziobro who led the prosecution to ask for a reduction in the sentences for Mr. Rybak. It was Minister Ziobra's attorney's attorney's office that repeatedly dropped cases of extreme behavior. It's you who support extreme behavior, and it's you who move that line, and then in our public life, there's such uneducated people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The idiots we saw last Saturday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u23	Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Tell us about the Modern faction: Pride and Modernity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the Platform, today you are talking about how much you condemn fascism. And I'm asking what formation the OUN-UPA was. What formations were the SS Galiziens you defended in this room yesterday? [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: That is not true.]] In this room, you defended them against the Anti-Ubec Anti-Bander Act. You were defending the nationalists, the Nazis... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: A lie.]] ...and Nazis working with Nazi Nazism. [[Applause]] [[You're lying.]] You defended them, and today you say you're against them? And second question. Is it racist to call something black? And I think that's what your constitutional minister was talking about at Owl's. Ask him about it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u25	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I will also ask a few questions in a moment, but I will start by saying that what we heard from this stand yesterday, from Minister Brudziński's mouth, started like a farce and ended like a embarrassment. It wasn't information. It was a political speech that could not answer the simple questions that I asked and which I asked again. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice in particular. Why does the Deputy Regional Prosecutor in Wroclaw withdraw the charges against Miedlar, order a change in the indictment against Rybak and the ONR activist who spoke about Islamic scum? Second question. Why is this happening? Who gives him that command? Second question for Mr. Winnicki. Is it true that your former assistant or current assistant is on the board of this association whose...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u27	Sir, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u28	...the president was throwing this disgraceful party. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the woods... Marshal: Mr... Member Jacek Protasiewicz: ...with fascist signs? [[Applause]] [[But what, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please ask each other questions during the parliamentary statements. At the end of every day, such statements are made. [[You should have said that at the previous post.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the subject I presented earlier, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 158 against 255, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government proposal for the Law of Entrepreneurs. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2187-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft Law of Entrepreneurs, print No 2187-A. At its 57th meeting on 25 January 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2187 to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. 27 amendments were tabled. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 25 January 2018, asks the Sejm to accept amendments 3, 11, 19, while the other amendments rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u31	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee also calls for the adoption of draft Law 2187 in its entirety. In the additional reports, the Commission has tabled amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 1. Amendments 20 to 27 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Entrepreneurs point out that the most important problem for them for the past two years is the regulation that has an impact on their activities. It is therefore absolute that, in the Law of Entrepreneurs, the rules laid down in Article should be applied. 1, add that this law also deals with the rules of law affecting the activities of entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs call for the law to be stable, predictable and to halt the legislative inflation that is taking place in this term of office of the Sejm. Without this, no other laws will have the effects we are talking about here. Let me give you a simple example, ladies and gentlemen. At the moment, we are proceeding with this law, which is supposed to be an overarching act for entrepreneurs, and at the same time the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers has a draft act on the transparency of public life, which has not been consulted with entrepreneurs, and contains a lot of regulations that introduce responsibilities for them unclear, unspecified and, of course, great penalties associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this amendment and further we have established a system of lawmaking... Marshal: Thank you. ...who's stable, sure. That's what entrepreneurs expect, and I'm bringing it in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u33	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 1 and from 20th to 27th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 185 voted against 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! You are very much talking about an important document in this term of office, a package for entrepreneurs, but you are creating another legal framework. A big problem is the so-called case. revenue due under this Act. It is a problem that appears in the Corporate Income Tax Act, but it is also about individuals who are active. You force this record, and yet the tax due is due at the time of issue... But there are exceptions. This is the issue prior to the transfer of ownership, the transfer of ownership without issuance, the sale to the sample, and the sale subject to the right of ownership. This is a legal complex matter and this is extremely important for entrepreneurs. Why didn't you try... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u35	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u36	...agree, very often it was about the activities, with the amendments that we are making? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u37	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 184 voted against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 8, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Entrepreneurs' rights have been transferred to the rules that already operate in economic trade, among others. the principle of settlement in favour of the trader, but at the same time these principles have been weakened. This is the case for amendments 4 and 5. You are weakening this principle because you exclude interpretation in favour of the entrepreneur because of the important public interest, including the important interest of the State. It is the opening of the gate for a beletristic, fantastic resort work. This is the opening of the gate for bureaucracy and the closure of this law, which has been functioning well so far. Please accept these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u39	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 187 voted against 228, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 225, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 15a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 6th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 159 voted against - 250, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 16 concerning the Ombudsman. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I don't know why you want to reject this amendment, she's very logical. We want to add a point. According to his statement on the protection of economic freedom, the rights of businessmen are now standing on the mouthpiece of business rights. The scope and manner of action of the Ombudsman shall be governed by separate provisions. I do not know why you want to reject this amendment. I ask you to lean on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u41	Thank you. [[But it doesn't have a government at all and no one answers the questions?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 233. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 16, 33 and 69. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 178 voted against - 235, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 165 voted against - 247, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 17a and 17b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 151 voted against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 33 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. There were 368 votes against - 39, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 34 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept this amendment. It shall clarify what will happen if the request for an individual interpretation fails to comply with the requirements set out in paragraph. 1, 3, 4 and 6. The point is to call on the applicant to remedy the deficiencies within a deadline of 14 days. Please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u43	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 186 voted against 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose to give a different title to Chapter 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 159 voted against - 242, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 37 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1 and the addition of paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Until now, in the Law on Business Freedom, the concession area has been regulated enumeratively. Now the proposal is to eliminate this, to write in general only that there are concession areas, and to move this issue into regulations to specific laws. It gives rise, ladies and gentlemen, to a great risk of discretionary in special laws. We are introducing an amendment to restore the state which has been so far and which has been able to function well, because the current legislative practice indicates that really in resorts there can be very fantastic work and it may turn out that this law, which is proposed, opens the way for us to include the licensing of further areas of economic activity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u45	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[But, Marshal, who are you looking for? Government rep? There's no government.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 186 against - 223. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 38 applicants propose to add paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 185 voted against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 38a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question, of course, concerns licensed areas and is very important for entrepreneurs. If you're talking about transparency, I wanted to ask you why you're throwing away a regulation that says that a tender for more compliant entrepreneurs is a mandatory one. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, you are creating a risk of discretion. We propose to add an article. 38a, who will remove it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u47	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 16th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 166 voted against - 247, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 41. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 181 voted against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to Chapter 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Big changes in the law, a constitution for business. It's just this whole change in your law thing is about changing your name. The entire chapter 5 - you have changed the name from the business counter to the business control limit, but nothing has changed - it is precisely rewritten from the previous law, both as regards the place of control, the rules for carrying out checks, the maximum duration of checks and the notice of initiation. This is exactly the same, which is why we suggest you go back to the previous name. If you make the actual changes that entrepreneurs expect, change the name, adding the limits, but until you do, do not cheat the entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u49	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 185, against 228, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) 11 applicants propose to add point 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u50	Dear Marshal, There is a Polish proverb: the grandfather talked to the painting, and the painting never once. We would like to say that in this Chamber, this list, these ministers, who should answer important questions concerning business activities, which concern entrepreneurs, doubts... These questions should be answered. But the marshal doesn't use this list. He is trying to reprimand Members who are asking questions and who are not trying to enforce what ministers are obliged to do. They don't do grace. We don't have any business. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] They should answer those complicated questions that were born and born during the debate. [[As long as they understand the questions.]] If we don't like it, how do you treat entrepreneurs? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u51	Thank you, Member. Very interesting question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. One Member abstained in voting 384 against - 31. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. The question is raised by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The five laws that will change economic reality - that was the introduction to the package that you have in front of you today. The package was supposed to be groundbreaking. In the meantime, what were the opinions on this package and after analysis in the committees? It's not a groundbreaking act. In the vast majority, it organises and systematizes the current legal regulations differently. He repeats principles that are already in Polish law, but the effectiveness of these rules weakens regulation by introducing exceptions. What's the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen? What you have received from the Civic Platform and PSL government is good and you have moved it to legislation, and this is most of the package, while your regulations are unclear, restrictive and unpredictable. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, are you okay with the noise?]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, what I'm going to stress is so important: if you didn't agree that we have to create [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rules of law for entrepreneurs, that's not a provision from the whole package...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u53	Thank you, Member. [[Are you okay with the noise?]] Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u54	...will have absolutely no effect. And you know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club will support this bill, even though it is not perfect. We are aware that the work lasted quite a long time. This law has been consulted. Some environmental comments have been taken into account, some have not. We believe that all actions aimed at improving the situation of entrepreneurs and facilitating their lives are the right way to go, but even the best law will unfortunately not be good if it is not respected. Therefore, if we adopt any provisions convenient for entrepreneurs, it is a request, and it is a request to the Minister, to consistently enforce this law, which we set here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u57	Thank you very much. The representative of the government at this point is the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mr Mariusz Haladyj. Would you like to speak? You wouldn't want to speak. It's all clear. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2187, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. Four Members abstained in the vote 286 against - 124. The Sejm passed the Law of Entrepreneurs. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2188-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation an additional report on the Government's draft Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, print No. 2052. At its 57th meeting on 25 January 2018, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2188 to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation after considering the amendments at its meeting on 25 January 2018 recommends that the High Sejm adopt Amendment 17, reject the remaining amendments and adopt a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u59	Thank you, sir. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2188. We will vote first on the amendments that the Member has spoken about. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the title of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. The question is raised by Mr Małgorzata Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. [[Mirosława, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sorry, Mirosława Nykiel. Yes, sir. Thank you for the correction. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We appoint an entrepreneur's spokesperson and divide entrepreneurs into better and worse. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already divided, I am speaking here to the rulers, society into a better and worse sort. Why, by introducing the Ombudsman's institution, do you divide entrepreneurs into better and worse? In the original version of this project, the Ombudsman was intended to serve all entrepreneurs. After all, those entrepreneurs, who are now big and can do much, were once small, and will be made up of the costs of the spokesman. You can't do that. Many business circles do not agree to this, they consider this to be discrimination. I therefore call once again on the High House to accept our amendment, which amends the title of the Entrepreneur's Rights Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u61	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 184 voted against 227, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the title of the Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 179 voted against - 228, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 4 and 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 179 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Accepting it will result in the unobjectability of Amendment 5. The question will be asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman's rights of entrepreneurs are to implement constitutional principles, so why is there no key constitutional principle for entrepreneurs, namely freedom of business? It is absolutely necessary to add this so that he can implement these constitutional principles, otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, whose spokesperson will it be? You have the temptation to make it an official's spokesperson. You can see that in the article. 1, in your proposal for its sound, because he, among others. is intended to strengthen the confidence of entrepreneurs in public authority. Ladies and gentlemen, shouldn't it be different? Shouldn't he sometimes, through his actions, influence public authority in such a way that it works so that confidence can be found among entrepreneurs to them. [[Applause]] I think that's the main rule. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't accept this, that means that this spokesperson is a spokesman for officials, not businessmen. It doesn't matter to you at all. Maybe it's just a staff bill - there'll be room for more of your people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u63	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 181 voted against 227, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We wanted to point out that restricting the ombudsman to only small and medium-sized enterprises is not the right solution. There is a large discrepancy between the definition of the size of the entrepreneur, in Poland and in Europe. Therefore, the Ombudsman seems to be a better wording and we have therefore asked the High House to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u65	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 181 voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 7 irrelevant. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 173 voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 7. to Article. 2 applicants shall propose that paragraph be amended. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 165 voted against - 232, with 15. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 9 irrelevant. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 226, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. I'm sorry, Mirosława. Why do I keep saying Margaret? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Of course, Mirosław Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u66	Thank you, Marshal. I'll think about changing your name as you insist. High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose a change in the way the Ombudsman is appointed by analogy to the Ombudsman, the ombudsman, the consumer ombudsman. We want the Ombudsman to be appointed by the Sejm at the request of the Council of Ministers to strengthen his position, his independence, because if he is to settle disputes - and so often happens - between entrepreneurs and government institutions, he must be independent. That is why we are bringing in this amendment so that, as I said, this is done by analogy with other spokespersons. It will also be consistent in law. Please accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u67	Thank you, Member. The Minister doesn't have... Would you like to refer? There you go. Minister Mariusz Haladyj will refer to the Commissioner's comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not in our opinion who calls, but in what are the competences and how they are exercised. We ensure that the Ombudsman is practically irresistible if he does not violate certain, very precise conditions. There is no freedom on the part of the President of the Council of Ministers. So here is to ensure independence, and in the amendment there is two-cadence, and that is what I think is a reduction in independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u69	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. There were 179 votes against, 229 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We propose in this amendment the use of good practice, and it has proved good practice to appoint an ombudsman who is chosen for two terms, while you propose one term, six years, in the act. I would therefore very much ask for this amendment to be adopted, because we have here the opportunity to take advantage of what has already been done in the course of its operation. Thank you very much. Please accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u71	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 178 voted against - 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 182 voted against - 230, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. There were 181 votes against, 230 votes against, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 14 irrelevant. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 186 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 155 voted against - 252, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 16, 17 and 18. The question is asked by Mr Margaret... [[Voice from the room: Mirosława.]] ... Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose that the spokesperson for business rights should also uphold economic freedom. And in order to strengthen its role and competence, because this is what we are talking about in these amendments, we need to equip it, as well as, Minister, in the first version, it was, in such a way that, in justified cases, it would be possible for it to interrupt control with the entrepreneur. Ladies and gentlemen, businessmen are often harassed by checks. There is much here in this package of rights about reducing controls, but there is just as much about exemptions. We therefore propose that he return to the original version of this amendment and give the right to the Ombudsman so that he may, in justified cases, interrupt the control of traders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u73	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 228, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 17. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 173 voted against - 241, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add points 5a and 5b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 274 against - 120, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 9 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 181 voted against - 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 10 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 186 voted against 230, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the hall: Not Mirosława?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister said here today that the ombudsman's powers and tasks are important. This is the amendment that concerns this. Please, in this amendment, we propose that the Ombudsman should be obliged to address public administrations in cases where he is informed of activities which have negative effects on entrepreneurs. You want to leave this possibility, which clearly shows who in your opinion the spokesperson is supposed to be. It is to be one of the cogs of the official machine, which will decide for itself whether or not it is present to the superior authorities in the event of poor operation of its institutions or bodies. In whose interest will it work if it is located through the method of appointment, management in the official machine? It's clear and obvious. He will act on behalf of officials, not on behalf of entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u75	Would the Minister like to comment? There's no need. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 185 voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 183 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 230, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 15. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 24. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will repeat the question to the Minister because I do not agree with you that it does not matter who calls the Ombudsman, but what powers he has. It's very important who calls. We want him to appoint the Sejm, because sooner or later the spokesperson will be in conflict between the employer and his principal and will always be in favour of who calls him. We have a very simple amendment and - it seems - logical. I hope I can convince you, ladies and gentlemen. The Ombudsman shall carry out his tasks by means of the Ombudsman's office. The Ombudsman shall, by means of an order, issue a statute which shall specify the tasks and organisation of the office. The Ombudsman shall also determine the tasks of the Deputy Ombudsman. The provisions on staff of public authorities shall apply mutatis mutandis to the deputy Ombudsman and the staff of the Ombudsman's office. The Ombudsman, after all with the permission of the Sejm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] may establish its field agents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u77	Thank you. Would the Minister like to comment? That was a question for you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Yes.]] Minister Mariusz Haladyj, Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This provision does not concern the appointment of an Ombudsman but concerns the statutes. On the one hand, we give the Ombudsman the opportunity to give the statute by order, but on the other hand we restrict its functioning, because, according to the amendment, the plenipotentiaries of the area are established with the permission of the Sejm, so in my opinion we restrict it here more than we release its activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u79	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 23rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 186 voted against 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 24th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 80, against 243, with 94 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions for the entire bill. The first question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment's time, I have no doubt that the spokesperson for business rights is a spokesman for civil servants and is part of the office machine. It is important what powers he has - I will repeat once again after the Minister. Turns out, however, it doesn't matter what powers he has, because he doesn't have to defend entrepreneurs. He's going to pursue the only right line of power. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, because this idea has certainly been sprouting in you for a long time, in 2016, when a project was submitted on the initiative of the Polish People's Party concerning the establishment of a spokesperson for the rights of entrepreneurs. The then Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz, today Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, said: The first of the comments is that the government's task is not to tease or disturb. They expect not the spokesperson, but simple, clear rules of the game. Secondly, there is reasonable doubt as to the duplication of the appointed Ombudsman with the Ombudsman. Third, there's also [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this Office of Competition and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, you need this bill to power your staff with another office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u83	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An Entrepreneur's Rights Ombudsman would not be needed if the State were fair to the Entrepreneurs. It would not be necessary to establish a new institution which will cost PLN 18 million and employ 75 new officials. That's not good enough. This spokesperson could indeed have the power of attorney if he were appointed by the Sejm, and this is the amendment we have tabled, and you have written in this bill that he will be an official of the state administration. How will this official protect business interests? It's just impossible. If there is a dispute between the government administration and the entrepreneur, whose side will this spokesman take? It's completely illogical. If it were to be, it should be absolutely independent and armed with instruments that would actually protect the rights of entrepreneurs. In such a formula, the modern club will vote against creating a facade institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u85	Please. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz,15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We feel like we're all trying to make each other feel better together. The High House creates a law that is incomprehensible to entrepreneurship. It's made in tons, not even in kilograms, and I've seen this comparison lately that we're talking about trucks. And let me tell you that if this spokesperson were to help 10, 20 entrepreneurs, that's good, but let's see if that's not a shame for the House. When we talked about the spokesperson for the rights of the child, we said that children are defenceless against the law and adults and need to be appointed a spokesman for them. Today, you put entrepreneurs in a similar situation, stressing that entrepreneurs are equally vulnerable to the Treasury and the State, so they must have a spokesman. [[Applause]] We need to create a clear law, a law that is friendly and above all transparent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not have the discipline to vote. Even if 10 entrepreneurs can help, it's still good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u87	Thank you, sir. Would Minister Haladyj like to comment on these comments? Here you go, Mariusz Halady, Deputy Minister of Enterprise and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not synonymous. I mean, calling a spokesperson doesn't equal that we have a bad law, and a oppressive state, because, first of all, that's what I said - there are countries, and it's the SME spokesperson in the United States... he's in South Korea, he's in the United States and Australia. [[The voice from the room: But there is no PiS.]] [[There's a full democracy there, Minister.]] That is, in countries that are considered to be countries with a friendly legal environment. And the second thing is, let us remember that our law today in 2/3 is the result of our membership of the European Union. This is also a dependency that determines the shape of Polish law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u89	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2188, along with the one amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 253 against - 149, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law on Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. This is an additional report, print No 2189-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u90	Dear Marshal, Dear Council of Ministers! High Seym! I am pleased to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on the Government's draft Act on Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, print No. 2053. The Sejm re-directed this proposal to the deregulation committee yesterday, after three amendments had been tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The Commission has decided positively on all three amendments and asks the High Sejm to adopt the bill together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u91	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's 2189. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. The Commission is asking, I would remind you, to accept this amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 290 against - 121. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, the applicant proposes to amend the Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1). The Commission is asking, I would remind you, to accept this amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 292 voted against - 121, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 293 voted against - 118, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2189, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 268 against - 119, with 25 abstentions. I state that the Sejm passed the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: The report of the Extraordinary Commission on the governmental draft law on the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in economic trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2190. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2190, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 270 against - 119, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law Rules introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activity. The additional report shall be in print No 2199-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Michał Cieślak to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Additional report of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on Government Draft Law Rules introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws on Business Activity, print No 2055. At its 57th meeting, held on 25 January 2018, the Sejm, in accordance with Article 5 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2199 to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation after considering the amendments at its meeting on 25 January 2018 requests the High Sejm to reject the amendments tabled. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u93	Please. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print 2199. The amendments presented in the additional committee report will be voted first. In the first amendment, the applicants propose a legislative amendment. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 185 voted against 222, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose a legislative amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 179 voted against - 229, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. Article 1 189. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. One Member abstained in voting 183 against - 231. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 199. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 184 voted against - 232 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 199a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 184 voted against - 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2199, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 268 against - 124, with 21 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed legislation introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activities. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law on the Marshal's Guard. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2195-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, yesterday at its meeting, examined three requests: two - to reject the draft law on the Marshal's Guard, to reject the draft law by introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard and one amendment to the prints 1971 and 2195. Both requests by the Civic Platform club to reject draft laws were negative, while the amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 has been given a positive opinion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u95	Please. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print 2195. We will be voting first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report and on the proposal. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 145 voted against - 269, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment, to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 of the draft law, the applicants propose that the words "points 1 to 4" be replaced by "points 1 to 4 and "7." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 262, against - 44, with 99 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before we vote on the whole bill, we have questions. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is not only about the creation of a new specialty capable of cuffing, equipped with batons, pitchers, stun guns or firearms. This formation will be able to collect and process personal data without the knowledge and consent of the persons concerned. There will be a new, double guard of the pretorian Marshal of the Sejm, who will decide when and to whom the means of direct coercion can be used. You can't pull 20 million zlotys out of Poles' pockets to put on this formation in parade costumes, swords or halabards. Members of the Civic Platform are not afraid of the sovereign or expect increased protection in the Sejm. In fact, the point is that it is a staff law, my dears, which is to send many guards to the uniform pension and, in their place, recruit young and strong, resolutely committed authorities, who will have no problems in order to settle the opposition here in the Sejm and with the citizens before the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u97	Please. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've heard the Civic Platform's position here before. Yesterday I said that it was one of the laws for which we could all vote unanimously today, but not because it is more important to do it in spite of PiS than to create a law for which the Marszałkowska Guard has been seeking for years. For years. What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? [[So what?]] Did the Marshal's Guard carry you as you blocked this podium? Then you blew the holidays for them. [[Applause]] And they had to work here. And today you refuse them to have privileges... [[Now she can do it.]] ...a uniformed service so they can have these privileges when your circus is protected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's tap our heads and anyone who doesn't have... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Grabec, do you have something to accuse yourself of? What are you afraid of? Who are they gonna keep an eye on? You? Do you have anything on your conscience? [[But in what mode?]] Because I don't have anything. I'm not afraid of anything. Whoever isn't afraid is voting for this bill. Whoever fears because he has an impure conscience will be against it. [[What's the mode?]] Because he's afraid of what? Service? Are you afraid of the Marshal's guards? Guys! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u99	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2195, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 270 votes against - 146, 3 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm passed the Marshal's Guard Act. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law Rules introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2196-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! As I said in my previous speech, the committee recommended that only one amendment be adopted. The rejection of the proposal as a whole has been negatively assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u101	Thank you. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print 2196. The Commission presents minority proposals and a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, on which we will vote first. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15. [[Scream a little, scream a little, go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many arguments here in this room or in this room from the Civic Platform about what this bill is bad, what will be the bill creating another... [[Sign up for the PiS.]] I sign up, sir, wherever I want. It's not your role in this. [[Yeah, in a minute...]] ...how bad she is and what great service and surveillance she creates. Ladies and gentlemen! Why weren't you able to speak on the committee, but on both committees you didn't make any comments, any meaningful amendments, also in the subcommittee, and today you're making the theatre? [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] Why? Because there's media? Bravo, bravo, 'cause there's media. [[Applause]] So we have another non-essential act in the bill, which really belongs to the Marshal's Guard like a dog bone, because these people were still treated as night watchmen, not as uniformed servants, [[Applause]] which de facto protects the most important buildings in the country. Is that true, Minister? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u103	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I understand everything... [[No, definitely not.]] ...in addition to the fact that this law rightly raises concerns about restricting parliamentarianism and free discussion in this Sejm, please go to the region and tell the Poles that they will have to work harder and longer only because we are giving pension privileges to another professional group. [[For 100 people?]] The truth is, it's also an example. It's not just a group. Our country cannot afford to extend pension rights. The situation in the ZUS is already dramatic enough, young generations know it well and therefore do not want the ZUS and do not want to pay higher pension contributions. They know very well that today they pay to support other professional groups who receive pension privileges, and they themselves will not be able to count on them at all. I do not agree to such irresponsible management of our country, that we will give away further pension privileges to even small professional groups and force others [[♪ The bell ♪]] to work harder and harder and pay higher contributions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u105	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski has the floor. You're acting as who?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u106	As a representative of the committee that was... This is a proposal from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pity that I now hear Mrs Hennig-Kloska's voice or the voices of Members of the Civic Platform, because we had great hopes that during the century of regaining independence, that in 2018, working... [[What does the Marshal's Guard have to do with this?]] ...in committee and subcommittees - many times the committee met, many times the subcommittee met - we will work out one joint, parliamentary, parliamentary document, bill... [[We'll work out what suits you.]] ...which will serve many, many years for all the Marshals of the Sejm, all the parliamentarians who will change over the years. The preaching of such irresponsible words that it is a bill that is designed to create a special service for the marshal is a huge misunderstanding, it follows... [[Stupidity.]] ...of laziness, of unwillingness to read this document, of mere malice and stupidity. Ladies and gentlemen! You do not even know that it was the Civic Platform Club that requested that these issues, as you called it, be monitored so that all these issues related to the use of information, the intelligence did not appear in this law and they would not be here. We agreed on the committee that this is not a service that will carry out any surveillance. We all voted together on the committee, in the subcommittee. Now you're inventing things that don't exist in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Member of the Modern Club says that the guards will have privileges, I would like to say that this law imposes on the Marshal's Guard a huge amount of duties, extremely responsible responsibilities. In today's world, uniformed services such as the Marshal's Guard have been working in such a way that they recognize extremely serious threats. In Europe, we have attempted bombings on parliaments. [[We're here, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to anticipate all threats, we see them on TV screens sometimes, because that's the time. Our parliament is open, it is infinite, we are visited by people from all over the world, representatives of governments, countries, but also for example. children from primary schools and various excursions. We must have a professional service that will use modern equipment, but also powers to protect Parliament in a professional way. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the palace is so outrageous that the Marshal's Guard will be able to identify someone that she will be able to check pyrotechnically that she will be able to keep a person. Today, the officials of the Government Protection Office, now the State Protection Service, have such rights in Parliament, nothing changes in this regard. Why don't you raise the scream, scream that the government security office in your time when the marshals were from the Civic Platform had that kind of authority? Nothing changes in this respect. [[That's what they're for. The Office of Government Protection is for that, not the Marshal's Guard.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that none of these arguments on your part fell either in the subcommittee or in the committee, because we had great hope, as the representative of the Kukiz club said15, that in 2018 together we will adopt the Marshal's Guard Act, a modern law on the Marshal's Guard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u107	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. There were 143 votes against and 272 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Both minority applications have been submitted to the Article. 9 draft law amending amendments to the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of Article. 12. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are the two minority proposals that we tabled in the committee as amendments. There they did not get the majority, but we would like to raise them again in the Chamber, because this is a moment where there is still some reflection to be made. These are proposals that actually relate to something other than the Marshal's Guard, but in this act they also contain, and mainly concern customs officers. The first of these amendments, which we are currently discussing, is an amendment that legally aligns all uniform services with the calculation of the amount of entitlement to benefits and does so by crediting customs officers and customs officers of the period of employment in the customs administration as a period of employment in the service. This mechanism for calculating the period of service as a service period has been recorded in the Customs Service Act from 1999 to 2009, therefore it is the exercise of acquired rights and their confirmation. I don't think it's really going to be much of a cost if we reflect and the Ministry of Finance [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would have agreed to this amendment. I'm asking you to accept it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u109	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 53 votes against - 248 with 115 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a different wording of point 4. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u110	The second of the minority's conclusions really restores the previous text of the project at the point that concerns the law... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 Point 7 refers to Article. 12 - in the original version proposed by the committee, in which it proposed the Commission project before the changes. In fact, it doesn't change anything in the Marshal's Guard Act, here the guards can be calm, this law will be unchanged for you. However, the restoration of this provision is important for the supply system applicable to the uniformed services, because in this wording it affects the legal position and status of customs and customs officers. That is why we would also ask in this case, however, to lean on it, because we leave one more service in a situation that is not fully settled. I think it would be worthwhile, by making all these changes in the field of uniform services, also leaning over Customs-Scarb Service. We lean over the guards at this point, so we can do it in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u111	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 67 voted against - 234, with 116 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly. At the moment, we will vote on the whole of the introductory legislation. I would like to ask such a question or appeal concerning the whole of these two laws. This is the last moment for reflection. Ladies and gentlemen! If you really value the guards, if you think they should not be treated as before and that it is our duty to meet this request and what they have been asking for for for many years, then you have a chance to vote for and withdraw from what has been done before. Ladies and gentlemen, is it really so difficult to stand up for the guards, to feel their situation? Really, let's not get enchanted with more jobs. We're pulling out of here, Bor. The number of posts increases by one hundred, but we withdraw the BOR. The guards are taking over new responsibilities. On the scale of the state budget They're promile, and even less than promile. It's really worth standing up to the task and being human. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just a human being. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u113	Thank you. Member Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u114	High Izbo! On October 17th we had to talk in the internal affairs committee about the principles of the Marshal's Guard Act, while 23rd you brought the project ready. Ready project contaminated by the fact that the Marshal's Guard could protect Members and Senators outside the Sejm, but, moreover, she could use a paid agent. So what if you've pulled out of this, since you've kept the possibility of using direct coercion measures on Members and Senators all the time, which we don't expect? We don't want you to have these tools. So what? Who will then be Marshal of the Seym? It is up to the Marshal of the Sejm when these measures can be used. With all due respect, we respect your work, but how can you compare the work of the Marshal's Guard to work? A policeman? How can one look at the service and involvement of the State Security Services, the BOR or the intelligence services and military counterintelligence and the work of the Marshal's Guard? I don't think there's an I.D. here. We respect your work, but we don't think you need these powers for your daily lives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] work in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u115	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2196, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 269 voted against - 143, 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed legislation introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring the draft resolution to the committee again. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission, I remind you, proposes that the draft resolution be adopted in the form of a print submission no. 2179. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft resolution in print 2179, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 162 voted against - 223, with 26. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that we will be voting on a simple technical implementation of the law in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure in a moment, but we do not. We are dealing with a very serious situation. Here we are about to vote on the implementation of the non-constitutional law in a clear way. The PiS Act amends the constitution, and now, on the basis of this non-constitutional law, changes the rules of the Sejm. You're breaking Polish law. You're breaking the Polish constitution. Without a constitutional majority, you break the Polish constitution and break the will of the Polish people, because the will of the Polish people on the Constitution was expressed in a constitutional referendum, and you do not have to break the Constitution of the Law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u117	I am merely reminding you that only the Constitutional Tribunal can decide on the constitutionality of the law. [[She's delinquent.]] [[Mr. Marshal, even the constitution doesn't slow down from thinking.]] We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in the form of a print submission No. 2179 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 160, with 27. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We return to item 14 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights: - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, - government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums, the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The additional report shall be in print No 993-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, printing 771, and on the Government's bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Law on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices, print No.806. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 26 January 2018, requests the High Sejm to vote on amendments from 1 to 3 but to vote on amendments 1 and 2, together, and to accept amendment 4. This amendment concerns the deletion of Article. 5 in the original wording of the government draft law, as this article. 5 has already been in force since 21 October 2017, because it has been added to the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism. It concerns the opinion of the IPN on the supervisory decisions of the voivodships in terms of changing the names of streets, buildings, buildings and public utility facilities. The Commission calls for both parliamentary and government projects to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u119	Thank you, sir. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 993. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. In the first amendment to Article. 1 point (1) (a) and applicants propose that the scope of the Act should also include the crimes of nationalists and members of collaborating formations with the Third German Reich. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to current regulations, the IPN's task is to investigate Nazi, communist and other crimes. The bill proposes that after the Nazi and communist crimes add the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and members of Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third German Reich. Then an article is added that explains the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists. A total of seven times is said about Ukrainian crimes, Ukrainian nationalists, Ukrainian troops. On the other hand, no nations are mentioned in the relevant provision concerning communist and Nazi crimes, and no countries are mentioned. It is not said: Nazi Germany, it is not said: Nazi Austrians, it is not said: Soviet or Polish communists. That's why we think that we absolutely need to fight, lead, and continue the fight that the IPN is already fighting when it comes to prosecuting Bander crimes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] fight against genocide, commemoration of these victims, but there is no need to stigmatize Here's one nation. We propose that we exchange the word "Ukrainian" for "Bander's" -- Bander's crimes, collaborating troops. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u121	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You will not hesitate to commit the greatest crime if the good of the cause demands it. That's once. Two: to the enemy of the nation, you are only guided by deception and hatred. These are not the words of any Polish national formation. Those aren't Bandera's words. These are the words from the Decalogue of the Ukrainian nationalist included in this book, which was guided by the Ukrainian Insurgent Army of the CNS. This book is the first scandal, so we cannot accept the amendment proposed by the Civic Platform because it blurs the responsibility. The criminal Ukrainian nationalism is responsible for genocide, and this is the result of this decalogue, which I quoted. The other parts are even worse. The scandal is that these books are in the stock of the school library in Bartoszyce. And not just there. Here's the catalog number. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u123	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 143 voted against - 252, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. [[Applause]] In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 53f. 1 applicants propose, among other things, that the seat of the genetic material base be the city of Szczecin. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna do it again. In Szczecin there was a genetic base, which worked for the IPN, which was the best genetic base, the only one actually created in the past, the first genetic base, which also served Polish state institutions, and was a model for the creation of new state institutions. You took the memory of national history to the banners, you let irresponsible people into the IPN, who took their heads - I apologize for the colloquialism - and who destroyed this base. They destroyed her work, took away her powers. Marshal Brudziński said you'd form a consortium. There is no consortium, and the responsible people in the IPN are trying to fascinate it today so that this base can work normally. You've ruined this base's work. Mr. Marshal, sir, have some courage, resist these radicals, and correct the mistake you've made. Fix it. Let the base return to Szczecin, because what is happening happens with a loss for Szczecin and Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u125	Thank you, sir. Minister of Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński asks for the floor. [[And in what mode?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! In corrigendum mode. You called me by my name. [[Cannot be corrected.]] Well, I would like to inform both the Member and, above all, the High House that the base was, is and - I am convinced of this - will be in Szczecin, it is about the achievements of really excellent Szczecin scientists and geneticists. I am not authorized to address the Member here on behalf of these Szczecin scientists, but I would like to say, Lord God, protect us from your friends, and we will deal with our enemies ourselves. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to be corrected.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u127	No, no. [[But how's that? One can and the other can't?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 144 voted against - 271, 2 Members abstained. [[I wanted to thank you for the objective conduct of the proceedings.]] [[Sit down.]] [[Shame, really.]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 5 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The consequence of this amendment will be a change in the title of the draft law. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem I want to raise concerns this amendment in a way that can be said indirectly. When we discuss totalitarianism, genocide, etc., we very often use arguments not so much legal as worldview and personal. We attack those who defend Polish right, Polish interests through the prism of their random social relationships We attack Members through colleagues, etc., that kind of thing. On the other hand, the problem is that some of your fellow Members have colleagues in the benches who have passed from the National Rebirth of Poland to today's green clovers. And as far as the National Rebirth of Poland is concerned, ONR is a bitch. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u129	Thank you. Member Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! I won't answer to Marshal Brudziński because I don't want to break the rules, even if the Marshal couldn't do anything to me about it. I respect the rules of the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a special moment. I don't know what you're happy about. [[Even your friends are laughing.]] This is a very characteristic situation that yesterday we talked about Nazism, about the problem of extreme, nationalist movements, about the use of racial arguments in politics. You weren't there, of course, because you had more important things to do at the time. And today with their hands, their hands... Yesterday you said Winnicki had nothing to do with you, and today none of you have the guts to stand up and say something. Nothing. You use the lowest instincts, the lowest instincts - with God on your forehead, on your hands, in your heart... Minister, Prime Minister Gliński - I address you with great respect - don't mock me. [[Get in the microphone.]] You are responsible, among others. for our relationship with the Ukrainians in terms of memory. Prime Minister Gowin, Mr... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'll be watching your vote closely. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u131	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th amendment, along with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 342 against - 44, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question to the whole act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are deeply disappointed that you have not accepted our amendments. We are in favour of the IPN continuing the work it is doing in the Volyn crime case. Thirty-six investigations into genocide crimes, a web portal. It's a crime of war. pl, where there is information about crimes, witness hearings, collection of various materials. On the other hand, we do not like the fact that we are going to stigmatize just one nation in all this law. [[Not the nation.]] But there's a second rule there, gentlemen, which I wanted to draw your attention to, unrelated to the occupation, unrelated to Ukraine. There is a provision that even today you can sue anyone who violates the good name of the Polish people or the Polish state. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's the right thing to do.]] I have a question for the applicants of this law: Do they mean that organizations such as Pride and Modernity, Youth of All Poland, ONR, Orle Nest... [[Voice from the room: Don't change the subject.]] [[Voices from the room: PZPR.]] ...may have sued Prime Minister Morawiecki for saying that the Polish justice system is corrupt and self-absorbed with nepotism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it so that such organizations can sue President Andrzej Duda...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u133	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u134	...for saying there's no justice in Poland? Is that what this was all about? [[That's what you're voting for.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u135	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u136	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is good that the end of the unpunished lie about the Bander crimes committed on our compatriots in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska is coming, crimes that qualify as genocidum atrox, or genocide with particular cruelty, because the civilized world did not know the cruelty that was committed on Poles. So it is time to do the will of the Kresowians and establish on 11 July, just on the 75th anniversary of bloody Sunday, a national day of remembrance of Poles victims of genocide, a national holiday. I'm addressing your marshal. In the freezer since 3 October there is a project of the Polish People's Party, print no. 2035, on this issue. ♪ It's time to go ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] On July 11, it became a national holiday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u138	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear at first: if we want to have a good relationship with our neighbours, let us build them on the basis of historical truth, based on this hardest foundation. [[Applause]] If we live in a lie and say that flagism, which is directly speaking Ukrainian Nazism, is a value for us to digest, we will tolerate it, then we are mistaken. [[What about German Nazism? There's no sign of it.]] Remember: this is the zadra, which lies in good relations between both nations, the Polish and Ukrainian nations. As far as this bill is concerned, we do not want anyone on Polish soil to glorify these acts in any way. In a moment, we're going to have a hypocritical test: who's going to stand down and vote against this bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He has no right to say he's fighting Nazism. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u139	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The majority of the Sejm did not agree to include in the catalogue of crimes prosecuted by IPN the crimes of banners or nationalists, but decided to include the crimes of Ukrainians, Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations, distinguishing between what Mr Święcicki said, and the other two crimes, i.e. Nazi crimes, not Nazi Germans, as well as communist crimes, not the crimes of Russian, Soviet or Polish communists. In this way we specially distinguish the Ukrainian people. I do not understand why this majority of the Sejm, i.e. PiS and Kukiz15, did not make amendments to call Nazi crimes Germans or Germans and communist crimes the crimes of Polish or Russian communists. Because of this inequality of treatment, our circle will vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u141	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How symptomatic. Yesterday, an angry attack on the Polish National Camp, which fought against Nazis. [[Angry?]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Young man, what are you saying?]] [[Choose your words.]] Same as always with the Communists. An angry attack, which not only affects the detriment of Polish patriots, but also spoils the image of the Polish state today. And today, the defence of the Ukrainian Nazis. This is a policy of the Civic Platform, a disgraceful policy. [[Bravo, Mr. Kaczyński! You got what you wanted.]] [[Voice from the hall: Act culturally.]] [[We're not on you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u143	Right now, I'm asking for the floor of Minister Patrick Jaki, Vice Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u144	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! One of the Members of the Civic Platform just left for the stand and said that we did not have the courage to respond to your accusations, the allegations of these supposed alliances with the Nazis. [[Fisherman.]] I want to tell you that it's not like we don't have the guts. We just don't want to bully you. I'll tell you why. That's because you've been going out on this floor many times today and you're saying that it's a basic problem of this kind of crime, like, for example. The one in the woods, there's no education. [[Fisherman.]] I would therefore like to ask the High House the question: Which government has removed history lessons from schools? Which government is it? [[Applause]] [[There's no mode, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] That's why I don't want to bully you and quote you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] various judgments of your judges in the Constitutional Tribunal on neo-Nazi cases. [[Sing with Fisherman.]] I don't want to bully you and show you a series of redemptions or swastikas as a symbol of happiness. I don't want to bully you and show you who you've been standing on stage with lately singing songs during CODE marches. [[With Fisherman.]] I don't want to just bully you. [[With Fisherman.]] But there's a moment coming. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a moment coming... [[We want to talk about singing songs?]] ...in which it seems that there should be a consensus in the High House. A moment like this in the case of these kinds of laws. Why? Because NGOs show that every other day around the world, the term "Polish death camps" or similar "Polish death camps"... [[There's already a bill in this case.]] ...that Poles are attributed to German crimes. German Nazi crimes. Until now, the Polish state has not been able to fight this kind of insult against the Polish people, so this law proposes a comprehensive set of tools and instruments of a criminal and civil nature, which will allow the Polish state to fight effectively. As effectively as other professional states do. We introduce e.g. a material record saying that someone who blames the Polish nation for German, Nazi crimes will be punished with imprisonment for up to 3 years. [[Applause]] [[But that's not what we're talking about, it's already in the bill.]] [[That's not what we're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u145	Mr Nitras, do not shout. [[I'm not screaming, I'm polemicizing.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: At the same time, we also define a catalogue of instruments and tools for civil-law struggle, among others. in such situations, when such expressions appear abroad in some magazines. We also pass the procedural card to such actions, e.g. non-governmental organisations that the State could support. That is exactly what the State of Israel has done for years and has done so effectively. I do not know why we should have some complexes, Poland should have some complexes and act less effectively, equip the state with less instruments than it does. Israel. We should learn from those people who do it effectively. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Your Seym, this is actually amazing, because, you know, it's just that the real intentions of politicians work not in speaking, but in action. [[Exactly.]] Today you have a chance - we will see who will vote - in a real way fight against Nazis and those who attribute responsibility to Poland for Nazi crimes. [[That's the thing, the alibi.]] Mr Nitras, this is the second time I have warned you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: And now it's time for me to check who wants to introduce real criminal records, and who just wants to talk about it, talk and do nothing. Because if you'd done this a long time ago, we would never have to go back to that. We don't want you to... Let me rephrase that. Yesterday, one of the prominent opposition politicians came out on the stand, and, I'll say, he exposed us. He exposed us because he said he knew what the bill was about. He said that this bill is about chasing words that the PiS don't like. And I want to tell you that this is true. That's the truth. We want to pursue those people who attribute responsibility to Poles for German crimes. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's exactly what we want to do. [[Applause]] [[But that's not what we're talking about.]] And I admit, we've been exposed by you. That is why it is now time for me to check who wants to strengthen the Polish country and who wants to weaken it. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, can you correct me?]] There are no corrections. [[And you see, that's the discussion with you.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 993, with one amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 279, against - 5, with 130 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums, the Act on the Liability of Collective Entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment and the Act on the Prohibition of Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. We would like to refer to item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the revision of the Civil Code. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2206. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants aims to extend the period during which the municipality will be required to provide tenants with the right to a replacement or replacement in connection with the need for renovation or the need to empty the premises. We have already decided once to extend this period until the end of 2017. This period is over. Unfortunately, the government has not responded to this, and we have therefore submitted a proposal for an appropriate law so that the period during which the tenants will be protected will be extended until the end of 2019. I would just like to express my satisfaction that when my project, supported by the Civic Platform, appeared in the Marshal's staff, gentlemen and ladies of the Law and Justice Members woke up and also reported their project with very similar records. I hope that, in this connection, we will reach an agreement so that the tenants can be protected longer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u147	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2206, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 402, against - 1, abstained 3. I state that the Sejm passed a law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing resources of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission requests a resolution as set out in print report 2175. The question is asked by Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If you'll excuse me, the subject is very important, but I'm addressing you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, with an appeal. As you probably all know, the attack on K2 is ongoing. There's a tragedy going on right now. One of the Polish Himalayans, from our contemporary heroes, those who carry white and red to the highest mountain peaks, at an altitude of 7400 m is trapped, cannot come down. Therefore, a fund-raiser is underway to finance the use of a helicopter. The Pakistani army demands a loan guarantee of 50,000. Dollars. [[Voice from the room: You have outdated information.]] I have a favor to ask. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is initially notified of this, but so that this case is not stuck in administrative clues, I ask that you declare, make sure that the Polish government transfers this money. I would be very grateful for this initiative. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You are too late to wake up.]] [[Sit down.]] [[It didn't work out like always.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u149	No, sir, this is a slightly different subject, I apologize. The information's been handed over, and I'm sure everyone will take care of it. Don't break the rules like that and take advantage of other people's misfortune. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 2175, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - 3, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. The 5th Law of the Revised Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2a and 2b, which are, among other things, that the members of the committee in the field of social security and health insurance are treated as employees. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment by adding an amendment to the Law amending the Article. 5a. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. The absolute majority is 201. Five votes against - 392, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend the rules for applying the Commission's decisions to entries in the perpetual accounts made on the basis of certain notarial acts. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. 20 votes against - 368, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 40e paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The absolute majority is 203. 3 voted in favour, against - 398, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The 6th Law amending the Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. The vote was one against 405, two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the execution of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 27 amending law containing amendments to the Civil Procedure Code Act. In the first amendment to Article. 519 § 2 The Senate proposes to extend to 4 months the period within which the authorised entities referred to in that provision may lodge a cassation complaint. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 2 against - 406, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 598 The Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. Against the vote of 412, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 598 § 2 The Senate proposes to delete the word 'protective'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 412 voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act (prints No 1509, 1646 and 1646-A) - third reading - continuation. At the 44th meeting, the Sejm joined the third reading of the bill. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1646. The committees in the additional report present the amendments on which we will vote first. The Sejm held one joint vote on amendments 1 and 4, which it rejected. In the second amendment to the article. 38a of the Animal Protection Act, the applicant proposes to delete paragraph 38a. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. The question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u150	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, we're at square one. The project, which was suspended in June, came back in the same shape. The same sound of the article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) And, Minister Jak, it doesn't matter what kind of animal it is, whether it's the one that's being abused or the other animal that's in the possession of that torturer. This cannot be the case. Only the passing of an animal as a mandatory criminal measure for a criminal offence against the prohibition of possession of animals is acceptable. This is the only way, which is why you have to support the amendments that are complex. I'm asking for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support. [[Applause]] [[Minister Jak won with Mr Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u151	Thank you. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This amendment aims to minimise the likelihood that the sadist will still be able to work with animals. Ladies and gentlemen, it's like letting a fox in the henhouse. You're okay with this. It's just illogical, I don't get it. [[Applause]] Mr. Richard Terlecki. Mr. Marshal, you said so. You interrupted the third reading, and the lawyers stopped the law firm. [[The joy in the hall, the bustle in the hall, the bell]] They were supposed to find the rules that would explain it. Where are those regulations, marshal? Mr. Marshal? [[Voice from the room: Don't shout like that.]] You don't scream, darling. Don't shout, dear messenger. [[Stop yelling.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u153	Member of the Commission, ask the representatives of the government a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u154	What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u155	...or the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u156	Mr. Marshal, will there be any explanation? You promised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u157	Madam, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are directing questions to people in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[She's done.]] Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you kindly to support this amendment. Actually, I don't happen to ask for the support of the Civic Platform's amendment, but this amendment is precisely a restoration of what the government had previously proposed. If we have a sadist who bullies animals - let's assume he's bullying a dog or a canary - how do we know he won't bully other animals? If someone can't take care of animals, he shouldn't take care of any animals. [[Applause]] And I ask you very much to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u159	Thank you. We're going to vote, aren't we? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: In no mode.]] Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, you are welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is, indeed, a dispute about how to prevent what Mr Suski was talking about, i.e. that people who have these kinds of tendencies, which they have been talking about, receive these animals back, but in view of these doubts, I appeal to my club to support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u161	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Vote from the room: Mr. President, bravo!]] 405 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 2, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 3 is therefore without object. The whole project... The question is asked by Ewa Lieder, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[Just don't yell, okay?]] We're not on you, ma'am. We're not. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, contrary to what has just been said, is quite good, is needed. Sadists must suffer the consequences. According to the report on how Poles abuse animals, there is a great indulgence of justice in animal abuse cases. Only 19 calls ended in accusations... [[Learn to read.]] ...and in the case of 31% Attorney's office refused to initiate proceedings, in the case of 42% The court dropped the case. Except, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is that it is so easy for you to instantly process all laws concerning e.g. Constitutional Court, and work on the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're delaying animals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u163	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u164	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u165	Mr Dunin, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much. Madam President, I ask you to step aside for other Members. Thank you, ma'am. Member of Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the PiS club went to reason and accepted the amendment proposed by the Civic Platform club, the Civic Platform club will vote in favour of the whole draft of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u167	Thank you. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for supporting this amendment. I believe that right now we have created good animal protection rules, and we should not go deeper into this matter, which means I think that we should withdraw the law on the protection of fur animals. At the moment, we have good regulations and I ask you to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u169	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the debate is being listened to by young people from the 4th High School. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński from Olkus. Welcome. [[Applause]] And, attention, we're voting. Oh, I'm sorry. At the moment, Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak will speak. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[You couldn't work on your finger.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u170	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! After all, all I have to ask for is elementary honesty. Because, if... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're saying that to the president.]] ... if... if... Please note that... [[You're playing with fire.]] ... We have taken the initiative, and you have been able to introduce all these rules and all the problems you are talking about for a decade almost to resolve. You didn't. On our own initiative, we entered into a dialogue with the environments that defend animals, and we have prepared a really good bill. To the extent that Mr Suski was talking about, we have declared publicly that we want to improve this in the Senate. That's why it's good that it did. What I'm trying to say is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] High Seym! We have a real problem with what this bill introduces. This bill... I would like such draft laws to pass through the High House through the acclamation. Why? That's because we have this situation. Indeed, if you look at the existing laws, case law and practice of Polish courts, it happens unfortunately too often - those courts which you so often defend - unfortunately it happens too often that the beastly treatment of animals... [[Okay, but what's the point of talking?]] ...does not meet with any punishment or, even in the case of exceptional beastlyness, with a suspended penalty. That is why this bill introduces several new institutions which, I believe, are very important from the point of view of animal protection. Because we increase the penalty for animal abuse up to 3 years, and with special cruelty up to 5 years. [[We know that bill.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no need to explain this, really, we know this bill.]] In addition, I would like to say that, High Sejm, we are introducing financial penalties. This is very important. Till now, punishment. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] managed for animal abuse were optional. [[Let the minister speak.]] [[Voice from the hall: These animals return to the oppressors.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u171	Don't yell. Mr Dunin, don't shout. I also urge Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Don't yell. [[But Mrs Krystyna will sit down.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Thank you, Marshal. I want to try the High Sejm to convince all clubs to support this bill because it really contains good solutions. [[But we will, you heard.]] If you're acting like this today... [[Voice from the gym: You need to talk.]] ...then I'm going to ask you again why you haven't corrected it for almost a decade... [[Voice from the room: He got hit in the head, that's all.]] ...your government? And now I am. Unfortunately, so far, financial penalties have been imposed on people who have behaved beastly towards animals... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Hello, it's over.]] ...they were optional, and in practice they were not ruled at all. [[Voice from the room: Krystyna!]] That's why we propose that penalties be mandatory instead of optional... [[The voice from the room: But we know it.]] ...up to 100,000. zł. The lower limit of such penalties will be $1,000. zł... [[But why do you say that?]] ...which will cause non-governmental organizations to... Oh, all the resources that will be collected... [[The voice from the room: But we know it.]] ...from people who treat animals with beasts, they will go to non-governmental organizations that have the task of... [[Don't defend yourself like that.]] ...to protect the animals. Thanks to this bill... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...millions of gold will go to organizations that help animals. Good solution? I think it's a good solution. [[Voice from the room: That's enough, man, that's enough.]] In addition, we are introducing a number of new institutions... [[Hello, it's over.]] ...like there haven't been so far... [[Voice from the room: But we know all this.]] ...for example... [[Voice from the room: We know that.]] You've led... What's the status today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: But we know.]] You've brought this state into such a state that in a situation where somebody breaks the penalty, bans on animals, someone who bullied beastly animals... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mrs Skowronska, how about a sedative pill?]] ...broken the ban and bought a new animal, there were no sanctions. That was the legal situation we found. And we're changing that today, and we're introducing sanctions and penalties for a person who, even though she's been brutally bullying animals, will buy another animal. And that's why I'm convinced that a number of these instruments... [[Feel like you're off the hook.]] ...makes the protection of animals significantly, institutionally increasing. That's why I'm asking the High Sejm... [[Voice from the room: How do we vote?]] ...to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Of course, we cannot apply the acclamation here, Minister, because we have to vote. [[Voice from the room: But you were close to conviction.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 1646, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - one, with two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints 2193 and 2221). On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (2) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Jarosław Wyrembak as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast to present the candidacy of Mr Jarosław Wyrembak and to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the candidacy of Professor Jarosław Wyrembak as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Professor Jarosław Wyrembak was born on 12 March 1967 in Wieluń. There he graduated from the General Education School. Tadeusz Kościuszki then studied law at the University of Wrocław and the University of Warsaw. He graduated from the University of Warsaw, where he also received a PhD and habilitation. Between 1992 and 2011 he worked at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw as a scientific and teaching worker. He also lectured law in many other Warsaw universities. Currently he is employed as an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Finance and Management in Warsaw, as well as as as an extraordinary professor at the Academy of Applied Computer Science and Management in Warsaw. After the parliamentary elections in 2015, he was elected by the Sejm as Judge of the Court of State. His professional experience consists, among others, of his work experience. early employment in the Ombudsman's Office as a chief specialist and in the Chief Medical Chamber as a lawyer - adviser to the Chief Professional Ombudsman. In 2011, he was appointed by the Minister of Justice to be a notary. He ran a notary firm in Warsaw. The Resolution of the General Council of Science and Higher Education of 8 December 2016 was set up as a member of the Disciplinary Board for academic teachers at the General Council of Science and Higher Education for the term of the 2017-2020 term. He is a member of the Bar Association in Warsaw, but currently does not pursue the profession of attorney in connection with the employment as a legislative expert at the Office of Seym Analysis of the Sejm. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Jarosław Wyrembak is a good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u173	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that Members have come to the discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u174	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Well, we're not picking any judge at the Constitutional Court today. We choose the person who will be the understudy. The understudy's double will always be an understudy. On 3 December 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal expressly stated: the election of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was lawful and President Andrzej Duda was obliged to swear three legally elected judges. Unfortunately, at night from 2 to 3 December, there was a violation of the constitution by the head of state, which is what we are seeing today. But I would like to explain to the honourable House, the High Sejm why you are so anxious to block the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, once the Constitutional Tribunal was composed of experts, people who had scientific achievements, but above all were independent. Today, once again, you are sending to the Constitutional Tribunal a person with a party card - your activist, who still yesterday did not know whether he was a member of the PiS or not, a person who is known for his scientific achievements simply because he presented scandalous legal opinions to the Marshal of the Sejm. If we had a well-functioning Constitutional Tribunal, it would have long since been removed from the legal order by which your politicians, the Attorney General, has such an influence on every prosecutor in Poland, that he may have orders to withdraw the indictment and dismiss the proceedings, which we have seen in recent reports. We're not gonna break the Constitution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, the High House will make a constitutional delicacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u175	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Ast will speak at the moment, except that I ask you, too, to speak as rapporteur for the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights an opinion on the application for the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. There was such a fuss in the courtroom that - I'm sorry - I did not hear that I was asked to speak before Mr Budka spoke. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, therefore, after considering the abovementioned. a proposal from the Marshal of the Sejm, who addressed a proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 20 January 2018 for an opinion, at its meeting on 25 January 2018 and following the discussion, decided to make a positive opinion on Mr Jarosław Wyrembak's candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u177	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been a few months, we've had the same situation again. The Sejm intends to elect an understudy to the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is the fifth such choice in this term. This is really the continuation of this road, which threatens Poland with sanctions. This is a continuation. the road that threatens our country's loss of European funds after 2020. This is a continuation. the road that destroys the rule of law that destroys the rule of law. If we go deeper into Mr. Wyrembak's life story, it turns out that he deserved his home party very much. He is not someone else, but he is the author of a surprising legal opinion, which did not hold a legal meeting in the column hall on 16 December 2016 contrary to the facts, contrary to the letter of law he considered to be a sitting of the Sejm. So the natural question at this point is whether it is by chance the role of the understudy of the judge of the Court is not a kind of reward for the loyalty of the party. We require, first of all, allegiance to the Polish state, the Polish law, the Polish constitution, and not to the ruling party. The candidate submitted by you is likely to remain an active member of the governing party, an active member of the PiS. We need to recall the basic fact. Henry Ciao died recently. He wasn't a judge of the Constitutional Court, he was a double-timer who had already taken his seat. Therefore, the Sejm is not able to elect another judge today. Today is really a movement on the side of the entire ruling camp. Take a vow from Judge Hauser instead of deepening the chaos at the Constitutional Court. And in view of the fact that the Sejm is not possible today to elect a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, because all seats are occupied, the Modern Posel Club will not take part in the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u179	Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u180	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present an assessment of the candidates for the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'm sure you're wondering why I used the plural, since in theory this vote concerns one person - Jarosław Wyrembak. Why? Because this position has already been filled in a legal manner, as decided by the Constitutional Tribunal more than 2 years ago. Comparative analysis concerning the professional activities of Mr Roman Hauser and Mr Jarosław Wyrembak Unfortunately, it is not good for the latter. Roman Hauser is a professor of legal sciences and Jarosław Wyrembak is a doctor of legal sciences. Roman Hauser has a dozen years of judicial internship, and Jarosław Wyrembak has no judge experience, although he has already reached 50 years of age. Roman Hauser was the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Chairman of the National Judicial Council, while Jarosław Wyrembak was a lawyer and notary who was not particularly distinguished by his activities within these two, otherwise very important and respected professions. Roman Hauser has been a partyless, apolitical, independent man associated with the Polish justice system since 1991, and Mr Jarosław Wyrembak is a long-standing party activist of Law and Justice, who only decided to resign from party membership when he applied for the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is the comparison between the co-creator of the Polish two-instant judicial and administrative proceedings of Prof. Roman Hauser and the expert of the governing party who is also a member of it. You must be Mr. Jarosław Wyrembak. He will manage at the Constitutional Court, which gives twice as many sentences as he did a few years ago. Why the Court works by 100% Slow down? Because there's a noisy reform going on. The Polish People's Party will not participate in the election of a double judge because we vowed to uphold the Constitution as the most important [[♪ The bell ♪]] the law in force in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u181	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u182	... The Republic of Poland. We're gonna... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u183	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Many of the predecessors appointed by the Sejm as members of the Constitutional Tribunal were people with huge scientific achievements, previously known for their outstanding public activity. I am referring here to candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal such as Professors Zoll, Safian, Rzepliński or a candidate who has actually been legally elected as a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, Professor Roman Hauser. Mr. Dr. Hab's candidacy. We are mostly familiar with the scandalous opinion that he gave more than a year ago, on 3 January, on the behaviour of a group of Members that took place on 16 December 2016. In addition to the point, I would say, discrediting the wording used at that time in this opinion, that the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm to exclude one of the Members was fully legal, this position does not defend itself in any way against the statements made by the Members of the Law and Justice, in view of what the Warsaw Court of First Instance stated in its judgment. It's Dr. Hab. Mr Wyrembak accused Members of embezzling themselves directly to the Constitution. I would therefore like to ask: If Mr Wyrembak, when presenting his candidacy, does not embezzle his article. 190 Constitution, which states that the rulings of the Tribunal are universally applicable and final? I will therefore remind you of the decision of 3 December 2015 that Prof. Hauser has been legally elected and today, when he is running for office, Dr. Hab. The vyrembak opposes this judgment. He also opposes the article. 178 of the Constitution, which requires apoliticity and in any event the impartiality of all judges, including the judges of the Tribunal. Therefore, even if it were a legitimate procedure, we would have voted against this candidacy. But because it is a violation of the Constitution - the declaration of this candidacy and the vote on it - as a Union of European Democrats we will not participate [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u185	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. Sir, you only have seven seconds. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about constitutional values, and every time we talk about animals, there's an increase in this room. [[Voice from the room: three, two, one, zero...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call for an urgent bill to be passed: stop abortion, because it really concerns constitutional rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u187	Thank you, sir. I don't know if that was about it. Ladies and gentlemen, that's it. The discussion is closed. No one else volunteered. No one volunteered. [[On behalf of the club.]] Let's move on to the vote. Please take your seats, ladies and gentlemen. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Who votes, Mr Marshal?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote, we vote.]] Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Jarosław Wyrembak's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Jarosław Wyrembak as Judge of the Constitutional Court, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 255 Members voted. The absolute majority is 128. 228 voted against - 25, with two abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Jarosław Wyrembak as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2227). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak? No one's checking in. We're coming... There's a question. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki. You're quitting. Good. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2227 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 358 Members voted. 353 voted against - no one, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a four-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 53 hours 11 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question was raised by Ewa Drozd, Zofia Czernow and Agnieszka Hanaczyk from the Civic Platform. The question about the draft law on the Polish Geological Agency is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Please, Mrs Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In September 2016, a draft law was published, the main objective of which is the creation of a new executive agency to replace the State geological service. This project provides for the establishment of the Polish Geological Agency and changes diametrically the existing formula and principles of functioning of the state geological service. Although many comments and reservations were submitted during the opinion by local government units, trade unions or government organisations, they were largely not taken into account and, as we can see, the bill has returned to further procession. One of the proposed amendments to this law is the amendment of the Article. 141 according to which the legislator intends to reduce the operating fee revenue payable to the municipalities in which the operation is carried out. There are dozens of municipalities in Poland. These surpluses would then constitute the income of the Polish Geological Service. However, by depriving local governments of some of the proceeds of the operating charge, the provisions of the Act on the Income of Local Units are disregarded, which states that these charges constitute the own income of these units. In many municipalities where only exploitation occurs, and not the location of the mine's premises or assets, no real estate tax can be levied. The operating fee is then a kind of compensation for the residents of the municipality for the inconvenience caused by living in mining areas. The planned changes will result, among others. a significant decrease in the municipality's income and not reduce the tasks of the municipality resulting from an increased burden on both the environment, including air quality and infrastructure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister knows that the facilities that are being created in these municipalities should be designed with special rules, hence my question: Will the municipalities be able to count on compensation for lost income and if so, how?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u189	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u190	Don't you think that such a way of changing the operating fee will be detrimental to communities with a small number of inhabitants and intensive exploitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u191	Well, thank you very much, Member. Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, is responsible for the main geologist of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Short answer. First, the Members should be corrected. There is nothing to replace the national geological service, because it does not exist. There is a set of tasks included in the Geological Law and mining law, the state geological service is a set of tasks, written from a small letter. There's no such unit. This has been attributed to the State Research Institute, which is unable to carry out all tasks. The Ministry of the Environment, where the main geologist of the country is located and working, as well as the representative of the government for raw materials policy of the state, who manages everything that is actually under the ground, has no executive agency, there are no tools to take care of the most important interests of the state. Such a solution, the establishment of such a unit, was already foreseen in 2001 and 2003 and then these tasks were temporarily allocated to the State Geological Institute. This temporary period continues to this day. The changes made by the State, especially in 2011, caused the emergence of a monopoly, because the Minister can no longer practically order anybody to do these tasks, but the State Geological Institute, and every monopoly spoils them. At the moment there is no performance of the tasks of the State Geological Service by any entity which would be an executive agency. This is unacceptable. Many ministries have such executive agencies, and no one is surprised. So we end with temporary and begin to implement what is necessary for you, the most important, including raw materials diplomacy, with an increase in the level of raw material security, including energy security. That's not here today. What you will see when you read the next results of the inspection of NIK, the reports for 2012 and 2013, 2016 and 2017, is a critical collapse in the raw materials economy in Poland, just because of the lack of such an agency and bad legal solutions. We're changing both. As far as the revenues of the municipalities are concerned, there are more than 2400 municipalities in Poland. Mining communities account for more than half. The municipalities affected by the limitation, only a slight reduction in revenues - slightly compared to their entire revenues resulting from mining, for example - will be only a few to a dozen. So you really are lobbying for the richest municipalities in the European Union. [[Behind the inhabitants of these communities.]] These are the richest communities. These municipalities are not under any circumstances... They are only a beneficiary of the geological diagnosis and investment made by the Polish state, and thus the whole society, including those poorest Polish municipalities, in order to make geological discoveries that cost billion, 2 billion, 5 billion. 'Cause that's how much it costs. After that, mines were built and jobs were created solely on the basis of the contribution of the whole of Poland. And now it's time for this money to go to those areas where we can run the operation very quickly. Where's the social consent? Especially in Eastern Poland. We have huge potential and we lack tens of millions of zlotys a year to launch a huge production that allows us to create jobs. Every geologist, the miner implies the uprising approx. 3 and 6 jobs. Let it happen. Do not defend these municipalities, which are among the richest in the European Union when it comes to the budget. [[Voice from the hall: Municipal residents.]] Case number two. The second point is that these municipalities, also mining ones, will someday have problems with rehabilitation. The fact that there are copies for rehabilitation is never fully secured and is not performed. We have many such examples. Even today we have mining communities in Poland that have spatial planning, want to build and it turns out that they do not have... They start construction, and here's the thing: there's some unreclaimed landfills, some unreclaimed excavations, mining damage, ba, there's a lot of unresolved drilling holes. And there's a stop at the same time. These are massive losses. The Polish Geological Agency will then remove such openings, it will cause that there will be remediation. It's written down. And it's gonna happen someday, God forbid it has to, but... If the municipality today will be the richest in such a situation that it will not be able to eliminate such a hole or lead to rehabilitation - and it has to be done - because it will be poorer, then the Polish Geological Agency will do this work, just from the fees that are collected today. So I don't see any threats here. Do not defend several municipalities, their income, their particular interests now, because this is about Poland as a whole, about raw material potential, economic development, as well as securing the interests of those municipalities that are rich today for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u193	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u194	I think we're talking about other projects. The Minister has very cleverly avoided answering questions. We do not defend the municipalities, we defend the inhabitants who live in very difficult conditions. Investment is needed to improve their living conditions and ensure their proper functioning. Each municipality has a multi-annual investment programme. These statutory changes will block these projects, will not allow them to be realized. We need and expect a specific response from the Minister and, little less, to withdraw from this idea. It is absolutely not true that you only take money from municipalities, because this project limits money to a very large extent for the national environmental fund. Of 40%, they will receive only 5%. This is also an additional source of financing for environmental investments in Polish municipalities. So I think you either didn't understand or you didn't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This agency, the Polish Geological Agency, is some extraordinary purpose of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u195	Thank you. Minister Mariusz Orion Jędrysek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm afraid you're the one who didn't understand the statement, and you didn't exactly read the bill. Well, the municipalities still have 60%. revenue from the operating fee. So that we're not taking anything here, if it's not... if they don't have these extraordinarily high revenues. And this is actually only a few municipalities in Poland. The Municipality of Kleszczów, a few thousand-dollar municipality - 300 million is the income from the operation of mining, 300 million. Only 30 million is an operating fee. And we only want to take part of that fee. In fact, this is a few percent of the revenue of this municipality. Don't manipulate numbers. A few percent. This municipality may have problems with rehabilitation someday and then the Polish Geological Agency will help. And now this money will be transferred to start production, extract where it is possible, almost immediately. There are places where you just have to do a small survey and complete the geological documentation, what the Polish Geological Agency will do, and already you will be able to tender and in 2 and 3 years you will be able to start production. It'll be very easy. And there will be Polish production, and there will be jobs. These municipalities aren't really hurt. And that's it. So that you pay close attention. [[For a national fund.]] National fund? The Polish Geological Agency takes over all the obligations of the national fund, including the agreements currently signed. There's nothing here. He's taking over and funding. [[The voice in the room:...negatively evaluates...]] There is no leaving the national fund alone, we take over all the obligations of the national fund with funding, that's all, in this respect. This will be done better by a geological agency, because it is a professional and dedicated unit in this direction. [[Warsaw.]] Yes. Yes. She'll do it better than the national fund today. And you can see that. Today, the financing system is complex, long-term, inability to settle, lack of competence of individuals. This will be done by a geological agency competent and dedicated, which has obligations only to the state and society - no scientific commitments, no own scientific careers financed, no fraud towards its own or its own scientific unit. The scientific unit has scientific obligations, is to carry out scientific research in accordance with the law, and the state unit, the government agency, is to carry out the tasks of the State. And that's what's necessary. You can't... If we give it up, we'll agree to a further collapse. Member of the Commission, please read the 2013 Supreme Audit Chamber reports, from 2012 to 2013, as this is the end of 2012, the beginning of 2013, 2016 and 2017 now. If you read this, you will be a great enthusiast for setting up a geological agency, and I thank you in advance for the fact that you will want to vote and support in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the appointment of this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u197	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was raised by Mrs Elżbieta Kruk and Mr Witold Czarnecki and Mr Piotr Babinetz from Law and Justice on the progress of the implementation of the multi-annual programme - independent for the years 2017 and 2021 - to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I would ask you to ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Following the century of Poland's regaining independence in 1918, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the establishment of a multi-annual programme under the name "Independant' for the years 2017 and 202021. Designed actions are designed to encourage Poles to engage in these celebrations, they offer the opportunity to shape modern patriotism. It is not only an opportunity to celebrate, it is also an opportunity to build a common future on this foundation. The primary objective of the programme is to strengthen the sense of the civic community of Poles based on three values defined in this programme, and distinguishing Polish identity, namely freedom, respect for dignity and human rights and solidarity, values permanently present in Poland's history. Minister, what are the specific objectives of the programme and the priorities of the actions? What institutions are implementing it? The independent programme appears to be crucial for the government's implementation of memory policy, historical policy in the coming years. Is that how you see him? What does the government want with this program to show Poles and the world? Will and how will this program help to build a positive image of Poland abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u199	Thank you. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, which was asked on the 99th anniversary of the elections to the Legislative Sejm, because these are the days that come when actually every month we have some interesting anniversary related to this event, which you are asking about, the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Indeed, in connection with this very anniversary, the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the government adopted a multi-annual programme "Independant" for the years 2017 to 2021. We will also consider extending the implementation of this programme until 2022 due to the fact that eventually the western border of that country, the Second Republic, was formed in 1922 by taking over Upper Silesia. As early as November 2016, the government decided to appoint a government representative office to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence in the rank of Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. This task was entrusted to me. This programme is one of the elements of the celebration of this 100th anniversary. It does not include official ceremonies, i.e. those that always take place routinely. Of course, it will be especially celebrated. I'm talking about the celebrations that are organizing the leading offices of the state. And the concentration of attention, as regards official celebrations, is on the Committee of the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence in front of the President of the Republic. But we also have, you can say, a government link with this presidential committee, because the secretary of this presidential honor committee is a government attorney, again in my person. So here we have very good, close substantive cooperation, also with regard to the calendar. This is all coordinated by the Office of the Independent Programme, which we specifically established in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. It is the Independent Programme Office that also keeps a calendar agreed with all important state offices so that we know each other what is done about these celebrations in different institutions. The government project is based on three priorities. First, they are national projects, second, regional and local, and third, foreign projects. As far as nationwide projects are concerned, they are primarily implemented by and supervised by the institutions under the authority of the Minister of Culture. We already have 46 different projects contracted and funded, which concern the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. These are mainly cultural projects. We also have projects submitted by other resorts, e.g. Ministry of National Education or Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. On the other hand, our projects, projects of cultural institutions, are mainly exhibitions, concerts, music publishing houses, book publishing houses. These are e.g. two great exhibitions that have already taken place and are held in the National Museum in Krakow - #Legacy and Wyspianski, that is for example. produced by the Documentary and Fabulous Films Works a series of films "History in lively paintings" about independent Poland, that is, e.g. 150 events organized by the Museum of Art in Łódź concerning the 100th anniversary of the avant-garde, because we also have a 100th anniversary of the avant-garde as a direction in Polish art. They are scheduled for this year, for example. three great exhibitions at the National Museum in Warsaw: one dedicated to Paderewski, the other dedicated to Józef Brandt, the third to various artifacts related to the Independent. Concerts in the National Philharmonic are announced. It arose in free Poland, i.e. musical works that were created in free Poland, which grew as a result of regaining independence. We're expanding the list of history monuments so there's 100 history monuments on the 100th anniversary. Today, these monuments of history are 81. This is a presidential list, but in cooperation with the Minister of Culture agreed. We have this social action of national singing, etc., etc. As far as regional and local programmes are concerned, we are particularly proud of them, because already in 2017 we verified it. We asked if there were any plans for events at local and regional level related to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and this year, we could say, pre-running, we received 660 proposals. So many different initiatives suddenly appeared in Poland, where they asked for either a government program logo or even financial support. We could have supported 157 such projects. So that in 2018 we will probably have thousands of local and regional proposals, and we will have to make tough decisions about who deserves support and who doesn't. I think this is going to be the scale of a few hundred initiatives or events that we can support. Finally, this third pillar - foreign, implemented by the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, a institute specialized in promoting Polish culture abroad. Here, too, there are plenty of different initiatives for which grants can be received from the Adam Mickiewicz Institute for telling about Poland abroad as part of cooperation between the Polish institution and some foreign institution. We have already contracted about 100 such events only for the year 2018. So we will promote Polish historical experience, but also Polish music, design, visual arts, film, theatre, new technologies, etc., etc. Next month we will have a meeting of representatives of governments of countries that emerged in 1918 or regained independence, from Central and Eastern Europe - here in Warsaw, such a meeting is organized - where we will also exchange experiences as they carry out their celebrations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will be inviting each other to various events related to the 100th flight. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u201	Thank you, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: So that as far as the foreign programme is concerned, he is also very ambitious. Thank you very much. I would like an additional question from Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u202	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The independent programme is a very valuable program, and it is also valuable for several years to celebrate the anniversary of regaining independence and building an independent state. Thank you for this information. Because, after all, the legacy of the march. Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski and other fathers of independence are great and great was the work of regaining independence, and we are also interested in what the lasting effects of the program will be, and this several years of worship of regaining independence and building an independent state. What will happen in the public space of the Polish state, maybe in the institutional area, e.g. in the museum area, what will remain so persistent in universal consciousness? And maybe more about some publishing activities, i.e. whether and what does the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage intend to leave permanent in the coming years as a result of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u203	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u204	Thank you for that question. I guess this is also about such reflection on what will be permanent after these celebrations, let's say events or events, material, so that. In 50 or 60 years people knew that we once celebrated the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and after these celebrations there was something lasting, material. Such lasting things will arise. They are created alongside a multi-annual government program in the form of multiannual government programmes for the construction of two specific museums. Of course, I am talking about the Museum of Polish History and the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek. Between 2018 and 2020 we will open dozens of new institutions dedicated to Polish history and will already work permanently for Polish historical policy in an area where they will be simply specialized. We still don't have the Museum of History of Poland, we're just building it. It is strange that the country, which has such a fascinating history, is something to talk about, there is no synthesizing Museum of Polish History, which tells about the entire history of the thousand years of Poland. This is what we build in the Warsaw Citadel. It will be opened during the implementation of the program "Independant" and will be the largest historical museum in Poland. We came out of the research - it is not surprising, because it has been repeated for 25 years - that on a simple question, who is the most important Pole in a thousand years of history, Poles answer that in the first place is John Paul II, second place - Józef Piłsudski. Both outstanding Poles, pointed out by Poles as the most important Poles in the history of a thousand years, do not have museums dedicated to themselves. We're just building them. [[And Wałęsa?]] There will be a museum of John Paul II and cardinals. Wyszynski here, in Wilanów, Warsaw. The Museum of Józef Piłsudski will also be established in Sulejówek. The construction of both museums is already underway. But that's not all. We also build the Museum of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic in Lublin. This museum will also be opened in this time frame. We are building the Sibir Memorial Museum in Bialystok. This concerns the history of 200 years of Polish drama, Poles were transported to Siberia, so there is something to talk about. This story should also be presented in very detail. We are building the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka and the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic on Rakowiecka in Warsaw. The Ministry of National Defence will build a new Museum of the Polish Army also in the Citadel, and will also build the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw in Ossów for 2020, so there will be a lot of these initiatives. And this is what will be these permanent things, about museums, that is, modern institutions that deal with exhibitions, seminars, conferences and publications, institutions that will already work permanently on these clippings of history to which they will be dedicated, and it will be a souvenir after a century of celebration of Poland's regaining independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u205	Thank you very much. The next question was raised by Mr Mirosława Nykiel and Ms Ewa Kołodzie from the Civic Platform. The question on the reduction of ZUS child care payments is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would ask you to ask Miss Mirosława Nykiel for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! One of the priorities of the governing party is pro-family policy, increasing fertility in Poland. The flagship 500+ programme, the "Maluch+" programme and the ZUS contribution subsidies for babysitters have been an example of the fight against demographics. This includes the period from week 20 to the third year of age of the child. This funding has been falling dramatically since this year. It will be paid in the amount of contributions calculated on the minimum wage, i.e. 50%. Dear Minister, The 500+ programme cannot be the only family-friendly program. Polish women, mothers want to work and have a decent pension in the future. In the meantime, you're trying to stop them from doing this. You start by taking money for nannies, thanks to which Polish mothers could reconcile family responsibilities and professional responsibilities. In this way, you take both jobs and opportunities for decent pensions. Why are you doing this? Why do you want to take the money from Polish women, lock it in the house? Does this mean that the 500+ programme consumes money for the remaining family policies? Thank you, and those half-minutes I give to my colleague, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u207	Very noble. Thank you. Now you want to say something? [[No, no.]] No. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Until 31 December 2017, on the basis of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children up to 3 years old, the Social Insurance Institution paid for the nanny contributions to pension, pension, accident and health insurance on the basis of an amount not higher than the minimum salary for the work in force in the given year. On the basis of the amount of the surplus over the amount of the minimum remuneration, the parents who employed the nanny under the activation agreement paid the contribution. As of 1 January 2018, following the amendment of the abovementioned amendment, Social Insurance Company Act... Here I would like to stress that we are talking about financing contributions from the state budget. The Social Insurance Institution is not only the payer of contributions, but this support, is true, for families who use the services of nannies employed under such an activation agreement, are financed by the state budget. Thus, since 1 January 2018, the Social Security Office has paid contributions from a base of no more than half of the minimum wage for work. It should be borne in mind that the new rules for the calculation of State funding apply only to activation contracts concluded from 1 January 2018. So it should be borne in mind that with these contracts that were concluded last year, the rules of co-financing have been used... [[But it's weak.]] ...which means that, in extreme cases, i.e. contracts concluded immediately before the change of law, these existing rules and, consequently, the financing of social security contributions and health insurance in full up to the minimum wage amount, will apply even up to 3 years after the entry into force of the new rules. Thus, for contracts which were in force at the time of the entry into force of the new regulation, such a change in the scope of the co-financing is not taking place. As for the reasons, because with the diagnosis presented by the Member, I completely disagree... I mean, I don't agree with the statement that the government is limiting pro-family policy to the 500+ programme. The very fact of the law that I referred to as the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 shows that the palette of these family support instruments during the period of raising children up to the age of 3 is much, much wider. It should be stressed that the nanny is the most expensive form of childcare under the age of 3 and also the least popular. According to the data provided by the Social Insurance Institution at the end of June 2017, there were around 9 000 people using this institution. About $9,000. Nanny's state budget paid social and health contributions, as I said, up to the minimum wage. The State should work towards developing the availability of childcare institutions under the age of 3 and therefore also nursery, children's clubs, day care providers. This is more effective from the point of view of the state budget, but it also serves a much larger number of parents. At the end of 2017, the places offered by daycare centres, children's clubs and children's daily carers were 12 times more than the nannies. That's about 108.5,000. Places. The number of nannies receiving just such funding from the state budget for social security and health insurance contributions, as I reported, is about 9 thousand. For this reason, funds for the implementation of the Resort development programme of childcare institutions under the age of 3 years were increased from PLN 151 million in 2017 to PLN 400 million in 2018. I stress that this is a threefold increase in expenditure on the implementation of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u209	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mrs Ewa Kołodziej for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u210	Thank you, Marshal. Under the PO and PSL governments, women who wanted to reconcile motherhood with work had the choice of a whole range of childcare options under the age of 3. Of course, there were crèches to choose from, whose network we have greatly developed, the day caretaker, the children's club and, of course, the nannies that we pulled out of the gray zone. Nearly 60,000. The nannies who have cared for little children during these seven years are often grandmothers, aunts, relatives of those children they took care of. And they finally had paid social contributions by the Polish State. Their great and sacrificial work has finally been appreciated. Now my questions: Why do you destroy what has worked well for many years? Why are you restricting nannies' legal work? How does this apply to the noisyly announced senior program three days ago? I mean, it's a bullshit thing for seniors. Is this the security that you give to the Polish seniors under the PiS? I would like to remind you that between 2011 and mid-2017 53 thousand were signed. activation agreements. This figure has increased from month to month since 2011, since the creation of the law. And today, after your amendment, is there not going to be a reverse trend, and will it not be so that from month to month, however, the number of legally registered nannies will decrease? That's what we're afraid of, because the truth is, these nannies are gonna go back to the gray area. I will refer to the Minister's words. Is it fair that today it matters when the nanny's contract was signed? The women who signed it last year are privileged to those who signed this agreement as of 1 January 2018. We believe that all women, all ladies, grandmothers, should be treated equally. First of all, we appeal that we don't fire the baby with the bath. These nannies can go back to the gray area, we don't want that. These ladies had a decent job they loved, with their closest grandchildren, it was well paid. They had set aside social security contributions and could have been guaranteed a decent pension, and that's what we mean for these women to have paid contributions and a decent pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u211	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u212	Let me repeat that I fundamentally disagree with the fellow Member's thesis. It is difficult to argue with the statement that anyone forbids the provision of care services by nannies. [[But that's the reality.]] I will repeat what is the essence of this change. The essence of this change is not that whoever removes the institution of the activating agreement, thus preventing the provision of services on the basis of existing rules by persons who have used the formula as a nanny. Let me remind you that neither the legal nature of such an activating agreement nor the principle of the remuneration of nannies are changed. So that the claim that anyone is receiving the opportunity of earning a decent nanny is simply completely unauthorized. [[But that's what's gonna happen.]] The essence of this change is that the scope of support for nannies through public funds, the support of total financing of contributions to pensions, pensions, accidents, sickness and health insurance, is simply limited. To date, these contributions have been financed, and I would like to draw attention, not entirely, to the amount of the minimum wage, so assuming that the nannies received a salary higher than the minimum wage, to the remainder of the contributions were financed by their parents. This rule doesn't change. It shall be amended only that the scope of public-funded contributions is limited to the amount of the minimum remuneration. And it's not like these resources go to other ends. Therefore, I stressed that the measures resulting from the reduction of the funding of nannies' social security contributions in a much higher amount are shifted to various forms of institutional care. Maybe it's worth appealing to numbers because they get the most into your imagination. This amount of contributions, which has so far been paid and financed by public funds every month for nannies providing care services, would amount to PLN 778.80 per month in 2018. It was a range of support for one job created for a nanny. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As regards the form of institutional care, the cost of funding one place at the nursery or at another institution providing such services is significantly lower, i.e. the amount from PLN 100 to PLN 140, which allows simply to support more families using such services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u213	Thank you, Minister. Another question was raised by Maciej Masłowski, Paweł Szramka and Łukasz Rzepecki from Kukiz.15 This is a question about the causes and solutions of the problem with the IT system of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego when submitting applications for funding under the The question was addressed to the Minister for Investment and Development. I would ask you to ask Mr Maciej Masłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask you, Minister, for information on the reasons for the failure of the IT system of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which was used to apply for support under the MdM programme. I know that MdM oversees the Ministry of Infrastructure, but Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is subject to the State Ministry and therefore their IT system also. In fact, it will ultimately concern money, so this ministry is appropriate to address this question. Nearly 13,000 were accepted. conclusions, however, due to a system failure it turned out that almost 1 000. the proposals are on the so-called. the reserve list. In the project assumptions it was established that it decided the order of applications, and there was a situation that people submitted a valid formal application on time, when there was still a pool of available money, they received a refusal, and those who later submitted this information received consent. It cannot therefore be the case that citizens are responsible for the errors and failures of the bank's state system. Therefore, I would very much ask for a specific answer when this will be resolved, because every day actually counts, and pushing - BGK says it's the guilty banks, the banks say it's BGK - it doesn't really satisfy us. I would like to continue with my colleague Paweł Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u215	Minister! We must bear in mind that these young people have formally applied correctly and have done so on time. They started credit procedures and now without this support from the program, living for young people has a big problem. We, as the government administration, have a duty to help them, especially since it was not their fault that the system misjudged their applications. Does the Ministry of Finance have secure resources for such an emergency situation as we're dealing with right now? Are you able to use these resources for those who are on the reserve list because of the error of the system? So I ask you again, are there measures and will you put them to the solution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that the problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u216	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The Youth Living Programme, which has been in operation since 2013, is still regulated by the same rules, with minor changes in favour of last year in terms of the limit to be used in a given year. The IT system is the same. Nothing has changed in this system. In general, this submission lasted for months. Last year, in January, the whole month lasted to submit applications. This year, because it was still very publicised that the system or programme ended, the total limit of 381 million was exhausted. Not everyone who filed the application could get this funding. Indeed, there is a principle of priority here, but also with certain limitations. The limit was exhausted in 2 days, 2 and 3 January. As you have already said here, there have been 12 700 applications, there has been a pool of 381 million, 955 applications have been included in the reserve list. The huge number of requests submitted by the lending banks to BGK resulted in a temporary extension of their registration time. We meet with this problem in IT systems usually every year during New Year's Eve or other special periods when social activity is significantly greater and in this case there is more willingness to benefit from the MdM programme. It was slowing down because there was no malfunction, it was slowing down the system. The system was working all the time. 56% applications were submitted on 2 January, 44% applications were submitted on 3 January. So it wasn't like the other one stopped working or the third one stopped working. He worked all the time. And it was never the case that the order of granting loans was determined by the order of applications. It decided a positive assessment of a given application first by automatically registering it in the BGK system and then a positive verification by the lending bank. The whole operation in the system is carried out by lending banks. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego does not carry out any activities within this system, it only makes this system available, while in it there is automatic generation of confirmations. This is a two-step system. Maybe I'll remind you right here how it went, for example. up to 3 p.m. 11 it was - I am talking about 2 January - 1186 applications, for the next 4 hours until 4 hours. 15 were 2389 applications, for the next 3 hours - 4300, and for the next 6 hours until 6 hours. 24 was 7577 applications. So that amount was growing. The remaining applications were submitted on 3 January. So the system worked all the time. The system did not force banks to accept applications. According to the Act, acceptance should take place within 60 days, so there is a deadline of 60 days for the decision to accept it. This has been accelerated, this whole system, so that everyone will really know as soon as possible whether this proposal will be accepted. On the other hand, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego had no possibility to influence whether the bank, the one who granted the loan and accepted the documents, confirmed receipt of the loan or confirmed it. Some banks may have made some mistakes. For today it is too early to clearly identify, as regards these 955 proposals, what are the specific reasons why these people are on the reserve list, whether it is just about exhaustion of the limit due to the late notification, or whether there are other reasons. explanatory procedures are underway at the moment. There's a whole appeal system that can be implemented here. The first appeals are of course internal appeals within the bank, because it is natural. On the other hand, it is also possible to report, to national supervision, to the Financial Supervision Commission, as well as to the financial spokesman. These cases may be settled in an administrative procedure. Of course, it is not excluded that litigation will take place if someone considers that the lending bank, which is being sued by that potential beneficiary, can also make a claim for joint and several liability or exclude this funding bank and will be found to be responsible for the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It's too early for today. According to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the bank correctly made the system available, the system worked. Technical slowdown. There is no way to predict that this number of applications could slow the system down. I repeat: there was only a slowing down of the system, but there was no failure of the system. In addition to this issue, that you can report to the financial officer, you can also... I mean, I do now. As far as the fund is concerned, it is, of course, technically impossible, because this is defined by the budget law. The budget law would have to be amended in order to introduce a different limit on these expenditures. For today, this is the limit set out in the Budget Act and the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, despite its sincere desire, cannot spend any other funds within this limit. If the High House were to consider that a revision of the budget law should be made, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of course, it is the government, the responsible Ministry, the Bank of National Farms that will carry out such a commitment or such a decision of the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u218	Thank you very much. I would like an additional question from Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for your answer, but I won't agree with you because for me, especially as a computer scientist, blocking the system you're talking about is also a failure. Let's imagine, for example. We give a votive in this room... Besides, let's not imagine - we give a vote of confidence to the government and, for example, the signal from that side of the room doesn't reach the counting machine in time, and this vote doesn't exist. The system works, but there was just a blockage, because 460 Members voted at the same time. So that's the problem. On the other hand, I asked more about whether you could e.g. to mobilise some funds from some reserve, because - what you were talking about - these applications were correct, accepted by credit banks, everything was submitted in time, this money was still available in the pot and it was all done in time, and blocking the system and de facto delaying all of this decision making, that these people were now left on ice. They were losing their credit rating when it came to the BIK score, because that's what it looks like. So, if you can count on a solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially by directing some additional resources that you certainly have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u220	Thank you. Please, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to repeat: it was never the case that all those who applied to the system - applied to their banks and were then registered in the BGK system - received funding. There's always been some people who, even with positive checks in the system, and first in their bank, didn't get funding because there's a limit. Such a limit has been in force since 2013 and has always been so. This time 955 people are also people who have been positively verified by banks who have still accepted applications without knowing what the final result will be, while they have no longer received acceptance, meaning they have not received confirmation from BGK because there are no funds under the scheme. That's always been the case. This has been the case for all five years. There have always been people who have not received funding, and there is no additional limit for those who have not received funding in previous years, even though the applications have been submitted correctly, even though they have been accepted by banks directly financing... They haven't been the beneficiaries of this program. That's always been the case. This year it's special, because it's only focused on two days. Normally, all this could last 60 days and only after 60 days, someone would know that they would not receive funding, even though it was positively verified by their bank because the limit had been exhausted. It could also have happened in previous hands, saying so frequently that someone later submitted it from another person, but the verification lasted longer and the verifying bank did not receive final confirmation from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Now it's the same thing. So that even as you call it slowing down, it didn't cause that someone who applied correctly didn't get confirmation on January 3rd. If he was properly folded, then the next day he received this confirmation. Those proposals were still accepted until 3 January. Only those that were after 3 January, after 3 hours. 23.59, i.e. it reached an hour. January 4th... They were the only ones who didn't get confirmation. I do now. I don't know for sure. You clearly and authoritatively state that this person correctly submitted that everything was fine. So far, it's too early to say how many of these 955 cases... What they are. Each of them is different. The Bank is currently considering appeals that affect it, and any appeal is actually a different fact, e.g. Someone was filling in the paperwork. So that it is impossible to tell clearly what the reasons were here today. The verification process is underway and it will probably take a long time. As a lawyer, I probably do not rule that out, even litigation may occur. Only the court will be able to determine where the wine is. And today here, in this room, there is absolutely no [[♪ The bell ♪]] no one who explicitly stated that it was the fault of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or one of the financing banks that could register in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u222	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. This question is raised by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Mr Mark Sowa and Mr Suchon, Mr Kobyliński, Mr Szłapka and Mr Truskolaszka from Modern Technology, on the humanitarian aid tasks carried out and planned and the budget allocated for this purpose - to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr Marek Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u223	Minister! Mr. Marshal! For the first time in history in the government in the rank of minister - a member of the Council of Ministers is a person responsible for humanitarian aid. This is a radical expression. I want to believe that this is to draw conclusions from the wrong and so in humanly harmful government policy, Prime Minister Szydło, not just a desire to satisfy the Minister and Solidarna Polska, as a coalitionist of the PiS, in the form of an additional minister's function. In this Chamber, the issue of humanitarian aid has been very rarely debated. This discussion has always been based on a completely different path. It seems to me that it is extremely important for society to have full information about how broad the catalogue is. actions undertaken by Poland. In the information about Polish foreign policy presented here in the Seym last year, Minister Waszczykowski raised a few threads. He talked about some initiatives, although they were very laconic. He said that financial streams flow towards migrants and refugees in Jordan and Lebanon. I would like the Minister to provide us with specific information. As far as I know, one project, relatively large, was undertaken to rebuild schools in Lebanon, a three-year programme - it was a joint initiative by Prime Minister Szydło and Chancellor Merkel. I don't know what stage these projects are at. Therefore, I have a few general but detailed questions. Firstly, I would like to know at what stage this initiative is currently being implemented. How many schools have already been built, rebuilt or under construction? What financial expenditures did the Polish government spend on rebuilding schools in Lebanon in 2016 and 2017 and plans to spend in 2018? What funds did the government allocate to humanitarian aid in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan in 2016, 2017, 2018? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What budget does the Minister have for humanitarian aid? What new initiatives are you going to take and present to the Polish government on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u224	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Beata Kempa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, who wanted to ask a question today on current issues and devote their time to the rules of procedure! I do not hide the fact that I thank you very much for this question, because if we leave, as I ask and appeal, from the rhetoric of malice, I think that together in this very important matter we could do a lot. I'm out of my first experience. It's not just experience since I took office, because it's important to know that as head of the firm, I've been meeting with a great job, a great response from NGOs. And that's basically how my adventure started. Very vibrant, very good NGOs, which came and asked, had excellent discernment on the ground, especially in Lebanon, especially in Jordan, especially in Syria, because we also help through these organizations in Syria itself... These signals flowed to the Polish state on the scope of this aid, which we could increase even more, which we could still give. That's how it all started. So, Members, when it comes to the very thorough settlement of projects, I can already give you a table today, even a short one. I will give it to you in writing so that you know exactly what the project concerns or concerns, because part of the projects is staged, it is long-term. I think it's a good formula. These are projects that are carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These were also projects financed directly from the Prime Minister's reserve, because we responded to the demand, a great appeal from NGOs, which are very effective in helping. This very good school project is a project that is actually being carried out together with Germany. He's at EUR 13 million. Our commitment is at 3 million. It is always that around January, by the end of January, at the beginning of February, we have information on how the project is implemented. The project is monitored and implemented. On the other hand, if you don't mind, I will be very cordially asking the High House for full support, but also for the course of information. Already today many Members, and not only from the ruling party, from the United Right Camp, but also very many Members from various groups with experience in helping, and there are such in our parliament, are already talking to me today about issues in the field of this assistance as well. I see there's a deep understanding about this, despite our divisions. I am deeply grateful for this because in this way we will be able to do a great deal of work, bringing relief especially to those who have been directly affected by the war, in this case in Syria. And I will allow myself very briefly, because we have little time, to focus on this Jordan, in which we recently paid a visit with experts, with doctors, also with journalists, so that Poles can show what the scale of needs is, but also what the first measures are going for. It is precisely about this training center, medical center, which we opened for 130 thousand actually. Dollars. It's so little, and it brings so much there. This is such a good place, especially for mothers with little children. You have to know that they give birth to girls' children, children under the age of 17. They can always come for help, for advice to this Polish training center for medical staff. Furthermore, the scale of aid that will have to be provided there, and what we are planning to do with NGOs in this area, is absolutely appropriate. I'm looking forward to these projects, but I've set priorities. You have to know there's only 80,000 in one camp. people, only one of these camps, and about 40,000. children. If there's only one clinic there, imagine what the recommendations of our doctors were. We're working on a medical project today. The second great need is the need for great support for educational activities. This is what UNICEF pointed out. We have last year's experience of our cooperation, e.g. with Caritas. Minister Fakhoury, Minister for Planning and International Affairs, who also has the issue of refugees, with whom I have spoken, has highly assessed the work of Caritasu. It is important to know that in Jordan, which today bears huge costs for conflicts in the Middle East, GDP is at 2.5%. The refugee problem is at the moment a huge problem that this very friendly and very well-managed country needs to bear. They thanked us, for example. for support from Poland of EUR 50 million of the fund, whose funds are distributed by the European Investment Bank, from which they draw. We have indicated that this should be passed on in particular to Jordan and Lebanon, which is where the largest number of Syrian refugees are. For this they thanked all Poles, what I want to say from this place, both the Polish authorities and NGOs, such as Caritas and UNICEF, which at the moment is engaged in educational projects that we will be working together, I hope, to carry out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is very, very much to do. These people say one thing. Why aren't they running to Europe? Once, that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u226	Thank you, Minister. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: I'm almost done. No, Minister, I'll extend your... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Minister, time's up. Excuse me. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: But they just want to come back... Sorry, I'll finish the story. I'll extend your time if you'd like, with an additional question. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: Okay, but I'll only finish one sentence if you'll allow me. No, Minister. Excuse me, Minister, there are rules that apply to me. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u227	Dear Minister, But first of all, I will ask you a specific question, which is, first of all, what exactly are the resources you are allocating to help in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, but not from European shares, but from our own. What budget do you have? At the same time, I would like to ask you specifically what your opinion is, because the media has told us that, unfortunately, your trip was very expensive, the flight itself cost more than 100,000. zł, while the Warsaw - Amman ticket for one person costs 2 thousand. zł. I'd like you to be kind about that. Is it true that you gave me 130,000? zł on clothes? However, this corresponds to... [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: What clothes?]] I would like to ask you about these media facts simply whether it's true or not. That's what I read. Yes or no? It's a simple question. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: But what clothes, please say.]] For refugees. Can you tell me exactly what kind of budget you have, ma'am, as... can you give it to me calmly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And tell me who approved this visit to Jordan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u228	Thank you. Please, Minister Beata Kempa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u229	I'm sorry if we're gonna bring this discussion to this, let's say, questionable publicist you may have read - and it's too bad you haven't talked about it before - it's actually gonna be an infantile discussion about everything and nothing. I want to make it clear that last year, at the very end of the year, UNICEF received support from the Polish government for the purchase of winter clothing, in particular children's packages, in the amount of PLN 2 million. The help we brought, which we could carry as part of this government plane... And I repeat, if necessary, we will not only need to take this help, but also to drive Polish journalists so that they can show Polish taxpayers what our resources are going to and what the scale of needs is. Because it wasn't only my flight or my colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those who were needed in such a delegation, but there were also doctors, mostly journalists, but also security, which, of course... I'm not gonna talk about things that are classified here, but it's obvious. So we can go into cheap infantilism, and we can actually help, sir. As for last year and this year, according to the Prime Minister's declaration... I didn't want to reserve some giant resources, because we need to figure out for a year what cooperation will be like, especially with NGOs. I think that these long-term projects from previous years will remain and will be implemented, and I will recommend to the Council of Ministers payments to various types of funds, right, so that this assistance can also be organised at institutional level, but the second aid sector is aid provided through NGOs that apply for it. [[Give me the amounts.]] The amount from last year was at the level of PLN 200 million. This is our assistance to the Middle East in 2017, and the Turkish instrument, as well as resources for the organization of Helping the Church in Need. [[But please state the amount without European projects.]] And just one sentence when it comes to resources, help. 200 million PLN - Middle East, 15 million PLN - assistance only for Jordan. When it comes to the assistance requested by the Church in Need, together, all the proposals, it is the aid at the level of PLN 5.5 million, which gave us such a result that we have successfully cured 13 thousand. persons in Syria and Lebanon. We have documents for that - 13,000. persons. So we can talk about helping in the spirit that you are proposing, and we can talk about these specifics. So that this is the implementation within the framework of these 200 million, the implementation of aid projects by Polish diplomatic institutions and the opening of the Polish centre was also carried out, there was a continuation of the Polish-German project concerning reconstruction of public schools in Lebanon at the level of PLN 4.2 million for 2017, because it is a staged project. Further: financing of additional aid projects in the second half of 2017 among displaced persons and local population - PLN 11.4 million, financing [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second tranche of the project for aid to refugees and local population, implemented by Polish NGOs, financial contribution to the trust fund for Africa - PLN 40 million, Turkish instrument - PLN 106 million. In addition, according to the Prime Minister's declaration - because we talked about how you know, at the beginning of my mission - any help will be needed, with my recommendation and in my opinion, we will implement this assistance. After a year, we will be able to say, if we increase the development and humanitarian aid fund for 2019. But we have the resources from the state budget reserve, so if we have to, we're going to move them. [[Can we get that detailed written reply, Minister?]] Yes, you're welcome. Of course, you'll get this table in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u230	Thank you very much. The next question was raised by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Mr Wojciech Sharama and Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski from Law and Justice. Question on the landfill of illegal waste in places not designated for this purpose - to the Minister for the Environment. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz begins.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In recent times you can come across a lot of information, among others. from media reports or from the police, the existence of illegal waste disposal. The last example of this is from Bytom, where the police stopped the shipment of waste from Germany. Usually, the destination of the waste is another city, and in the transport documentation itself there are other wastes than those actually present in the transport. The cities - especially those in which the mining areas are located, as I mentioned just now, Bytom - are a great temptation in terms of illegal waste trading. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether efforts are being made to effectively prevent the transport of illegal waste within our country, including those from abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u232	Dear Minister, does the Ministry establish international cooperation, and if so, with which countries to effectively eliminate the crossing of the Republic of Poland's border by vehicles with illegal waste? The current rules on cross-border shipments of waste do not fully protect the territory of the Republic of Poland against illegal waste originating in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u233	Thank you. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The question of Members raises a topic which has become particularly important after Poland's entry into the European Union. Cross-border shipments of waste, despite the free movement of goods and services within the European Union, are subject to special supervision in which several state institutions are involved. Today, I will try to present to you and your fellow Members the most important actions of the State's administrations involved in monitoring in this area. Activities related to the fight against illegal imports of waste into Poland are supervised by the Chief Environmental Inspector, while voivodships of environmental inspectors control economic operators and, if non-compliant, are required to inform the Chief Environmental Inspector and impose fines under the provisions of the Act on International Movement of Waste. Road waste transport checks shall be carried out by the Border Guard, the National Tax Administration and the Road Transport Inspection with which the Chief Environmental Inspector has concluded formal cooperation agreements on the control of transboundary shipments of waste. As part of its remit, the police also perform ad hoc activities. Where it is suspected that controlled transport is illegal, on the basis of these agreements, the environmental inspectors shall provide substantive support to the services in the assessment of the transport concerned. In 2016, all services involved in the control of cross-border shipments of waste carried out a total of 11 000. control of the transport of waste. Inspections at the co-operation of the Environmental Protection Inspections shall take place mainly at border crossing points, shall be carried out by Border Guard officers or National Tax Administration officers, at the external borders of the European Union, including in maritime ports, on national roads and in border areas, by inspectors of Road Transport Inspections, mobile groups, Customs Service and National Tax Administration and Police. The organisation and coordination of control actions by the Chief Inspector for Environmental Protection shall take place within the framework of EU inspection projects. There is a project of European inspection actions on IMPEL networks. Since 2006, Poland has been involved in joint checks on cross-border shipments of waste under this project. Joint inspections on roads, in ports organised three times a year are attended by voivodships of environmental inspectors and officials mentioned earlier in the service. These checks shall detect cases of illegal shipments of waste or infringements of the conditions of the decision of the Chief Environmental Officer when it appears that this transport is illegal. Poland is at the forefront of the European Union in terms of the number of checks carried out, so that we are considered to be one of the most active countries in Europe. In order to strengthen the entire system of control of cross-border shipments of waste, the Chief Environmental Inspector shall provide regular training to service officers with whom he cooperates on cross-border shipments of waste. There are 400 people trained every year. The training is co-financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Criminal sanctions for illegal shipments of waste are imposed. Provincial environmental inspectors impose fines on companies caught on illegal shipments of waste. Punishment can go up to 300,000. zł. Those penalties, which range from 50 to 300 thousand, should be preventive and dissuasive, and that is the case. Illegal imports of waste into Poland are a crime. In the Penal Code, eight years of imprisonment are punishable. In the event of a suspicion of this crime not only of the Environmental Protection Inspection but also of other services reporting it to the prosecutor's office. We work together in this area so that things don't go away, which has happened very often. Unfortunately, this happens and I will intervene in these matters. Actions carried out in the event of the detection of illegal transboundary shipments of waste shall be linked to procedures which are based on models of Union rules on shipments and shall take place in close cooperation with the authorities of other countries. The Regulation sets out precisely the cases in which illegal shipments of waste occur, this is defined. Most cases of illegal imports of waste previously found in Poland relate to cases where no consent has been given to shipments of waste from the competent authority. Then the foreign entity sending the waste shall be responsible for illegal imports and the waste shall be returned to the country of dispatch. If the foreign entity is not known or does not exist, the documents shall show e.g. False data is the obligation to return the waste to the authority of the country from which the waste was imported. In accordance with the procedure following notification from the inspection services of illegal imports of waste, GIOŚ will notify the authority of the country of origin and this authority should force its trader to take waste from Poland. The deadline is 30 days. However, it should be stressed that this is not always easy because some of the documents accompanying the shipments are falsified, waste is found after a long time after their import and the authorities of the countries must determine where and where the waste was actually transported. Then there are negotiations, talks, proving where they come from. Sometimes things end in court. With regard to what happened in 2017, 33 notifications concerning illegal cross-border shipments of waste to Poland were received by the Chief Environmental Officer. GIOŚ received documents confirming the location in total 4.5 thousand. t illegally imported waste, including in one case it was up to 2400 t. Some of these cases concerned stopping during road inspection of transport vehicles. Compared to earlier years The number of illegal transports, shipments from Great Britain, Germany to Poland has increased significantly. The majority of municipal waste is imported [[♪ The bell ♪]] and construction waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u235	Thank you. And I would like an additional question from Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u236	Minister, many of the waste that is being submitted illegally in the final stage comes from businesses operating in the field of waste management. In many cases, when applying for an authorisation for waste management, these traders do not have sufficient financial resources to protect themselves from the negative effects of their activities. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry intends to take action in this respect so that they can have much greater safeguards in the form of financial resources that would provide protection against the negative effects of their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u237	Thank you. Please, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that question. This is a matter which is very important to us and which requires wider discussions, including with the department responsible for entrepreneurs. Very often we meet with such situations in which the so-called situations appear. poles - people who do not have resources for the management of these waste, and then local governments have a problem. This is a very difficult situation, the enforcement of these claims takes a very long time, because under the law, the person in whose territory the waste is deposited is responsible for their development. Here this instrument is missing in the form of a financial guarantee that would provide collateral as regards the treatment of these waste. There are activities in Poland that require special concessions. In the case of waste, you will agree, and often these are hazardous waste, such a tool does not exist by which you can... If we want to deal with such a particular activity as waste management, it would be worth to have some safeguards here to protect, ensure environmental safety, the safety of people who are in the area. Often these abandoned, illegally stored waste or waste that does not have an established owner - or it turns out that a person does not have resources for their development - also have serious environmental consequences, for the environment, and undermine the belief in the effectiveness of state authorities when this problem is not solved very long. This is linked to measures - very often municipalities cannot afford to use these waste. We're looking for different possibilities, there's a replacement, but it can't be that someone breaks the rules with all premeditated intent and optimizes the costs to ensure the development of their business, just hoping that someone else will do it for them. Here it involves responsibility, but it must be built up, also in my opinion, just a specific financial guarantee, which will enable the waste that requires it to be secured and disposed of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u239	Thank you, Minister. The next question was raised by Ewa Kozanecka and Peter the King of Law and Justice. Jet is a question about a special night fare for the Minister of Energy. I ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the end of December last year, the Energy Minister's regulation on a special night tariff entered into force. It has enabled the energy sector to prepare special cheaper offers for households at night for heating and electromobility. With particular regard to the difficult issue of smog, I would like to ask the Minister a question on how to approximate the estimated costs of electrical heating at night in households. Please also indicate how these costs are compared to other methods available to households today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u241	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at Tadeusz Skobl's Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last year, thanks to the amendment by the Ministry of Energy, an additional tariff was introduced with a more favourable rate of charge for the distribution of electricity consumed by households at night. New and more attractive rates were also proposed between 22 and 6 for electricity. The anti-smog tariff is offered by sellers from the four largest energy groups in Poland. The new tariff provides for lower rates for electricity additionally consumed at night. The lower rates relate to electricity consumption exceeding consumption in the same period of the year preceding the year of selection of the anti-smog tariff. The rate of distribution in the anti-smog tariff is, on average, 10 times lower than the rate in the G11 single-zone tariff at fixed rates at each hour of the day and 2 to 3 times lower than the night rates in the G12 tariff, i.e. in the two-zone tariff. The night electricity rates in the anti-smog tariff are also lower and depending on the energy companies account for between 50 and 60% of the G11 tariff rates, they are also lower than a few to a dozen percent of the G12 night tariff rates. On the other hand, by day the customer will pay for energy as much as in the G11 tariff, which is the most popular fare in households. The customer does not risk that if he chooses an anti-smog tariff, his energy charges will increase in the day. It will not have to change its previous habits of household electricity use, as non-room heating energy consumption will not have a significant impact on the change in the charges. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Energy, annual household expenditure on electricity assuming that the customer consumes around 10 MWh of electricity at night for heating and approx. 2.5 MWh for other household purposes is on average less than 4 000 anti-smog tariffs for consumers. zł. As a result of the introduction of an anti-smog tariff, electric heating will become cheaper than heating with fuel oil and can be competitive for gas and coal heating, especially since it is practically maintenance-free, does not present a danger of fires, explosions that may occur in the case of heat sources with a combustion chamber. This does not just mean savings to consumers. It is also an effective tool to combat air pollution. Preferred rates for electric heating are an attractive alternative to environmentally hostile forms of heating. The new solution is also part of the electromobility development programme. The users of electric cars gain the opportunity to charge their vehicles cheaper from hours. 22 to 10 p.m. 6. I took with me two calculations for households up to 150 m2 with a consumption of 115 kWh/m2/year. And from these calculations is the following. With gas heating, with boiler efficiency 86% Such a recipient will pay PLN 3102. If the boiler has greater efficiency - 96% This will pay PLN 2812. The carbon heating looks as follows, depending on the efficiency of the boiler used for this heating. At the efficiency of the boiler 70% This is PLN 3086, with a boiler efficiency 85% this is PLN 2541 and at the efficiency of the boiler 90% This is 2400 zł. Fuel oil comes out the most expensive - this is 4405 PLN. How does this compare with the tariffs of distribution companies and energy prices, because this product consists of two elements: the price of energy offered by the companies and the tariffs that are adopted in accordance with the tariffs approved by the Energy Regulatory Authority? In PGE, for such an apartment, we will pay PLN 2732, in Tauron - PLN 3089, in Enei - PLN 2978 and in Energa - PLN 3204. Also such calculations were made for apartments, because so far there are a number of apartments heated with coal or otherwise. It's been prepared and it looks like this. Cost of gas heating of 50 m2 apartments with a consumption of 115 kWh/m2/year, with a boiler efficiency of 86% , is PLN 1362 and at the efficiency of the boiler 96% - those are higher-generation boilers - 1265 PLN. As far as coal is concerned, it is estimated that with low efficiency of the boiler it is 1029 PLN and with efficiency of the boiler 90% 800 zł. In the case of fuel oil this is 1468 PLN. In comparison with the costs of electricity, as regards distribution in tariffs proposed as G12as tariffs, this is as follows. In PGE it is 949 PLN, in Tauron - 1065 PLN, in Enea - 1030 PLN and in Energa - 1117 PLN. This is what it looks like in comparison with various other ways of space heating with the same annual consumption as I indicated - 115 kWh/m2/year. It can, of course, vary depending on the technical condition of the building. What can I say? All I can say is this cab [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is a good tariff, but it needs support in this respect to obtain the appropriate heating elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u243	Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. We move on to the next question raised by Marcin Kierwiński and Czesław Mrok from the Civic Platform. The question is about the results of Frank Taylor's expert report and Wiesław Binienda's statement. The question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. Please, Mr Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last week, indeed, we once again learned about the new pseudorevelations of the sub-committee of Minister Macierewicz, a subcommittee officially operating at the Ministry of National Defence. A member of this subcommittee, Mr Binienda, made it clear that in Smolensk we were dealing with an assassination attempt, and at the same time pointed out the responsible party, one of the neighbouring countries pointed out Russia. Therefore, regardless of how far I approach, we all Members of the Civic Platform approach the revelation of Mr Macierewicz's subcommittee, but the matter is very, very serious and requires a reaction from the Polish government. If a representative of the official subcommittee acting at the Ministry of National Defence says that there was an assassination prepared by one of our neighbours, if he says de facto that the Polish president was murdered in this way, I expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Polish government, but here from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or a quick reaction to discredit these scandalous words, and the reaction of removing such a scientist from the subcommittee, stopping the work of this subcommittee, or if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agrees with such harmful words - diplomatic reactions. Hence our question to the Ministry: What action did the Ministry take in relation to Mr Binienda's words? Is there any diplomatic note or is the PiS government planning to stop diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation or is the Polish embassy closing? And if not, then I understand that another possible reaction - and it would probably be the most appropriate one in this case, it should be an urgent response - is the removal of Mr Binienda, the closure of this farce, which is the subcommittee of Mr Macierewicz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't allow irresponsible words. We cannot allow Poland to be harmed by such irresponsible words of people who have often compromised Polish national interests and the Polish state's right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u245	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr Marek Magierowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u246	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Referring to the first formal question you have made regarding the statements made by Professor Wiesław Binienda, a member of the subcommittee on I would like to stress that, like the members of this committee, the foreign affairs department also wants to fully explain all the circumstances of the disaster of 10 April 2010. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not feel competent to comment on the individual statements of the members of this subcommittee, including the opinion of Professor Wiesław Binienda. As regards the second question, I kindly inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, gives priority to all issues relating to the clarification of the circumstances of the Smoleńsk disaster, but due to the results of this particular study and the opinion of Professor Binienda, no action has been taken by the Ministry, including consultations with allies from NATO or within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u247	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Minister, the Polish government does not have a position relating to these appalling, yet shocking, statements that we were dealing with the assassination and de facto murder of the Polish President. Who will therefore take a position in Poland if not the Polish government? Minister, make up your mind. You are a representative of the government on this matter and in this House. For you, this is completely indifferent, what are government officials saying in this extremely appalling matter? So here's what I'm gonna tell you: one of the two, either they're talking or they're saying the wrong thing, and that's why you have to start reacting to it. It's obvious they're saying the wrong thing. They speak out of the question because they refer to the opinion of a man, an expert who was supposed to be international, who said in an official statement a few weeks ago that he was not working for this subcommittee. At all, I'm asking you to treat it like he's never worked. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Make up your mind. As for the Ministry itself, what about bringing the wreck to Poland, what about the international investigation, what about the complaint to the International Court of Justice in The Hague? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u249	Thank you. And here you are, Minister Marek Magierowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! I will start from the end, from the last issue you raised about bringing the wreck from Russia to Poland. I would just like to remind you that at the end of last year, the then Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Jacek Chaputowicz, today head of the Foreign Affairs Department, provided very detailed, in-depth information on this subject... [[Unfinished.]] ...members of the defence committee, which, if I recall correctly, the Member is also a member. As I know, the Members of the Civic Platform have expressed themselves in their own superlatives about this information provided by Minister Chaputowicz. [[The fact is, the wreckage is gone.]] So I understand that for today's discussion, of course, we are returning to this topic, but I think Minister Chaputowicz explained the matter very clearly at the time. Thank you very much. [[It's the results that matter. You'll know them by their fruits.]] [[We'll take it.]] Dear Marshal, Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I repeat once again: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this particular case concerning one specific statement of the expert of the subcommittee does not feel competent in any way to comment on such a statement. Once again, I would like to stress that over the past years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly addressed the issue of clarifying the Smolensk disaster and bringing the wreckage, including in talks, in relations with our Russian counterparts at various levels, starting with the Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs - several such meetings took place - ending with consultations, among others. Ambassador of the Russian Federation in Poland. Once again: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very concerned that any doubts about this disaster and the case of the wreck still in the territory of the Russian Federation should be clarified as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[So it's a disaster, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u251	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jarosław Szlachetka, Marek Polak, Ewa Filipiak and Zbigniew Biernat from Law and Justice on the construction of new sections of the national road No. 7, Zakopane. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. The first question together is asked by Members Jarosław Nobletka and Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u252	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is difficult to disagree with the statement that the construction of new sections of the Zakopane was the dream of generations, and thanks to good decisions and concrete actions of the Government of Law and Justice, this dream is being realized. The S7 expressway is created to improve the movement towards the north-south of Poland, to connect directly Gdańsk, Warsaw and Kraków. In addition to the implementation of the investment north of the capital of Małopolska under construction of the S7 the express section of the Zakopane between Lubień and Rabka-Zdrój is currently being created. Minister, we've been behind you for almost a year and five months since you put your first shovel on the construction site of a new burial site. Therefore, I ask for information on the level of progress at which the work is carried out on three stages of implementation, i.e. Lubień - Repair, Repair - Cosmielna White and Cosmielna White - Rabka-Zdrój.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u253	And Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u254	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! I was pleased to note that the one-day national road no.47 between Rustkowka and Nowy Targ already in 2022 has a chance to become a two-day road. But even though it will wear all the signs of the expressway, it will not be the expressway. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what this results from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u255	Thank you, sir. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The S7 expressway is a very important element of the communication skeleton of Poland. It combines very important economic and tourist centers of Poland and of course connects Polish ports. That's why he's the apple of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the current government programme of construction of national roads by 2025 almost PLN 21 billion, including in the war, was earmarked for implementation of the entire S7. Lesser Poland - over PLN 5.5 billion. The episode between Lubień and Rabka is not an easy section, because it is implemented in the mountains, but I think it is not impossible to implement. In the section, numerous engineering facilities were designed, as well as the main object of the tunnel. For the whole section of Lubień - Rabka the government program provides for nearly PLN 2.4 billion. Due to difficult conditions we have divided this not too long episode into three shorter sections, as you said here: Lubień - Repair, Repair - Komielna White, Komielna White - Rabka - Chabówka. When we talk about the first episode, Lubień - Repair, with a length of 7.6 km, the material advancement is now, at the end of December, 36,4%. According to the contract concluded with the consortium of IDS-BUD SA and Altis Holding, this section should be completed in October this year. I think that will be a sufficient response for you. However, for the moment, of course we have some problems regarding cooperation with local authorities, but I think there is no reason at the moment to say that this section would be devoted later. Repair section - Skomielna Biała with a length of 3 km - the material advancement is 14% on 31 December. In this case, the deadline set by the implementing agreement with Astaldi is the end of 2020 and 2021. This term results from the fact that the tunnel section near Lubień Mały is the most difficult section in implementation. This is demonstrated by the fact that the cost of building this section is about PLN 1 billion. The tunnel is, of course, built in difficult geological terrain, but it looks pretty good today. On the north side, 425 m of tunnel was hollowed in the right tunnel, in the left - 385 m, which gives us a total of over 810 m. This is the state of January 21st. Now we're monitoring it very closely, very precisely. Despite the complex nature and wide scope of this section, there is at present no reason to fear that there will be any delays. This section should be completed within the deadline. Skomielna Biała - Chabówka, third episode, with a length of 6 km. In this case, the progress of the works on 31 December is 40.2%. The first contractual deadline for completion is the second half of 2018. Unfortunately, during the course of its activities, Salini, the contractor, came forward with a number of claims due to the difficulties he found at the construction site. These difficulties concern inter alia. conversion of high and medium voltage networks into Chabówka nodes and on various engineering facilities, which are 18, 21, 22 and 24. The contractor requests us to extend the deadline by an even year. These demands are currently being analysed in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. After a while, we may be able to present to you whether these claims are legitimate or not, but, as I know life, some of them will be legitimate claims. National Road No 47 Rzawka - Nowy Targ. Zakopianka kind of ends in Rabka-Zdroj, which means the national road number 7 ends in Rabka-Zdroj. The rules have been so established that the expressway ends in Rabka, and it is still national road No 47. In our opinion, for the ordinary user of the road it will hardly be noticeable, because it is almost identical. On 8 November, a tender was launched for the construction project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a new two-way road from Rzwawka to New Market in the design and build formula. According to the timetable of the tender committee, the deadline for signing the contract with the contractor is 2018 and the deadline for ending the whole - so that I do not deceive you - 44 months after the announcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u257	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Jarosław Szlachetka and Mr Zbigniew Biernata.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! As part of the construction of a new section of the Zakopane from Repair to Skomielna Biała, the two-chamber tunnel, mentioned by the Minister, near Lubonia Mały, is dug 2 km long. Minister, can adverse geological conditions delay the completion of works in relation to the agreed timetable in this section?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u259	Thank you very much. Minister! In the light of the information obtained, can you state clearly whether the multi-annual process of preparing this investment, which really lasted a few years, was well carried out? Second question: Will the preparation of this investment not result in additional costs in the form of contractors' claims? One more question: Shouldn't this expressway be extended to the border crossing in Hyżno? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u260	Thank you. Please, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, as I said, we don't see any danger when it comes to the tunnel. We're still monitoring there, and it seems to us today that this should be completed within the deadline. On the other hand, as regards its extension to Hyzhny, I wanted to tell you that there is little traffic there and we are generally not planning to expand this road at the moment, because in general the traffic is moving more towards the A1 motorway, that is where the traffic is headed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u262	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Gabriela Masłowska and Czesław Sobierajski from Law and Justice. The question on the exemption from taxation of interest waivers on housing loans is so-called. an old wallet and a deadline for issuing a regulation on this matter. Question for the Minister of Finance. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u263	Minister! The Law of 30 November 1995 on State aid in the repayment of certain housing loans contains a provision which states that, in a situation where the borrower, from 1 January 1998 onwards, and also later, for 20 years systematically and on a timely basis, pays the debt, it is guaranteed both that the bank's write-off of capitalised interest on the State's budget will be guaranteed after 20 years, as well as the write-off for the temporary redemption of interest. These are often amounts from several thousand to tens of thousands of PLN. Therefore, the time limit for the submission of the first applications from persons who have reason to benefit from such redemption shall be 1 January 2018. Therefore, it is expected that these proposals will increase significantly in the first weeks and months of this year. There was therefore a problem, a certain doubt. Well, isn't this interest remission going to be treated as the income of the borrower, so it's not going to be subject to income tax mainly for housing cooperatives as borrowers, and consequently for the members of the cooperative themselves, because they are de facto paying off these loans? In this case, there is great concern, many doubts, and questions are raised by cooperatives as well as members themselves. Some branches of banks recommend refraining from filing until the case is cleared up. From the answer to mine [[♪ The bell ♪]] It follows that the Ministry of Finance is inclined to introduce rules which will exempt from taxation such redemptions. I wanted to ask if the position of the Minister of Finance on this matter is clear and when the relevant rules will be issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Thank you for your interest in the subject, because I know that for many years you have been close to people who are in such a situation that they have to repay loans made before 1992, in fact until 31 May. With a lot of time, maybe I'll give you a little perspective on this. The Law on State aid in the repayment of certain housing loans, the granting of guarantee premiums and the reimbursement of guarantee premiums to banks paid by the bank provided legal grounds for granting aid in the repayment of residential loans. an old wallet, just pulled up during that period I was talking about. This help consisted, among others. on a transitional buy-back from the State budget interest on housing loans. I would like to point out that for these borrowers this aid in the payment of interest amounted to 7.9 billion from 1996 onwards, i.e. after the date on which this State aid law entered into force. On the basis of the article. 10a of the said law after 20 years of systematic and timely repayment in line with the provisions of the loan repayment agreement, borrowers will be entitled to submit an application under which the bank will relieve the State's budget of the remaining debt for capitalised interest and for the temporary redemption of interest on the loan. For the current year in the budget we secured for this operation the amount of PLN 390 million. This redemption will be available from 2018 to 2027. Therefore, the first requests of borrowers can be expected, and in this sense there is a very valid question and question which the Member here raises. It is beyond doubt that an analysis of the legal provisions indicates that today, in the current legal state, the write-off of claims for credit to the bank under the Personal Income Tax Act constitutes income from other sources - art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 9 of the PIT Act. On the other hand, as regards the beneficiaries of the aid which operate in the form of cooperatives, the remission of the loan will result in the creation of a tax revenue in the cooperative corresponding to the amount of the loan surrendered. According to Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the CIT Act is revenue, among others. the value of the write-downs, including for borrowings and loans. So today we have a fairly clear legal situation. The question of the Member concerned concerns the exemption from taxation of interest waivers on old wallet housing loans and the deadline for issuing a regulation on this matter. Firstly, it would be much easier for the Finance Minister if this regulation had already been implemented in 1995 and defined this exemption. Today, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance has the power to issue a regulation on this matter, but due to the financial consequences that are considerable... It defines the amount in the management we are talking about here, calculated as an effect on public finances of a total of 515 million in the first year, 33 in 2019, 23 in the next year and then 7.8 million, 7 million, these amounts are getting smaller. They will, of course, also have an impact on the budgets of local government units, because in this amount their total revenue would be reduced by PLN 117,9 million only this year. Appropriately, they would then be smaller because we believe that this process would take place especially this year, at the beginning of the period referred to by the Law, i.e. those 20 years. The question is whether a regulation will be issued is absolutely correct. Work is underway, and they are highly advanced on this issue. I believe that if circumstances do not arise that would undermine this approach and the procedure for such an idea, which was adopted in the Ministry of Finance, such a regulation will be issued within the next few weeks. As I said, responsibility for this is quite large, because we are talking about large amounts. As regards the income side, this item was not included in the 2018 Budget Act, it was not planned on the revenue side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u266	Thank you, Minister. Would you like to ask... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u267	Minister! I am aware that a large amount would be a budget burden, about five hundred and a dozen million, but there are various reasons for exempting this tax exemption, among others. the fact that this part of the borrowers that benefited from the loans of the old wallet paid an unprecedented loan racket on a global scale. We have carefully analysed this issue. There's evidence that some people have paid two or three times the cost of building whole apartments. They paid interest on interest over the years, because this was permitted by the law under the so-called law. State aid. Although they had timely repayment, they paid interest on interest, there was interest capitalization, and commercial interest rates were used, even though such agreements did not allow it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it would not be acceptable to me in terms of any social justice to tax redemptions even now. I have a brief question, sir, if you don't mind. If such a regulation enters into force, which will, however, lead to the exemption of these waivers, will it cover all applications submitted from 1 January 2018, or only those submitted since the Regulation was issued? Because there are dilemmas and questions here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u268	Thank you, Member. Please respond to Minister Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If such a regulation enters into force, it will apply to all applications submitted this year, even before the date of its adoption. I can only add that last year, at the end of December, exactly 22 December, a communication was published on the website of the Ministry of Finance on the opening of a regulation of the Minister of Finance on the omission of income tax on the income generated by the write-off of the debt related to the acquisition of housing credit by the bank under the Law of 30 November 1995 on State aid for the repayment of certain housing loans, the granting of guarantee premiums and the refund of guarantee premiums paid to banks. The draft regulation was also included in the list of legislative work of the Ministry of Finance under heading No 625, with the work being carried out so that this normative act is issued immediately. Here I have good news that internal arrangements in the Ministry of Finance have been completed and the document has been addressed to external, inter-ministerial arrangements. It remains to be agreed whether it will not be the subject of a meeting of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers in order to maximise the objective of this decision-making process by the Minister of Finance. So what I can declare is a repetition that in the next few weeks, I think this decision will be made. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u270	Thank you very much. The last question today was formulated by Barbara Dziuk, Jolanta Szczypińska and Tadeusz Wozniak from Law and Justice. The question about the introduction of a network of hospitals and night and Christmas care, as well as the additional funds provided to medical units for over-execution, was addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know that there is a health reform, and this applies to hospital networks. It is adequate, so constructed, to the map of needs. Here is the question: Does the Ministry monitor through voivodships how this network works? Are there any other medical units' expectations? Are there any complaints from patients related to the malfunction? And if it's okay, then please tell me how much, when it comes to finance, compared to other years, medical units have received, because from what we hear in public information, these amounts have increased quite significantly. We also know that additional funds have been transferred to medical units for overperformance. I'd like to know in what years, are these delays, or are they just funds from the previous year? The hospital network does not cover all units. Are there currently competitions to finance those activities that have taken up hospitals in previous years that have not qualified for the medical unit network? That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u272	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me start by asking you a question about the hospital network. I would like to start by pointing out that the introduction of the basic hospital health care insurance, in short: hospital networks, took place under the Law of 23 March 2017 amending the Law on public-funded healthcare provision and entered on 1 October 2017. In general, six levels of benefits protection were identified within the hospital network: first, second, third, oncology, pulmonology, paediatric and nationwide hospitals. The network included 594 hospitals, 516 public hospitals and 78 non-public hospitals. The ones that didn't go online can run in competitions. These competitions are held on an ongoing basis, so that there is no problem here. Just because the hospital didn't go online doesn't mean that it was disqualified from the system, it's just that it can apply for funding from competitions that are running on an ongoing basis. As regards the settlement of the costs of health care provided on the basis of contracts concluded within the network, they take place in two forms, firstly, on a lump sum basis, secondly, the financing of benefits excluded from lump sums on the basis of existing rules. The basis for the lump sum was the settlement period... The amount of the lump sum was based on the number of benefits provided and reported by the entity for the year 2015, taking into account all overperformances reported, and the valuation of those benefits in force at the date of entry into force of the Act introducing the network. The claim was valid from October to December. By February 15th, individuals will still correct the reports, so in fact the Minister of Health, as well as the NFZ, will have a view only in February when all the reports are due. We monitor the network situation on an ongoing basis. We keep watching how it works, and we don't rule out changes when something goes wrong when some individuals are alerting about different states. As regards night and Christmas health care, I would like to point out that the information obtained from the NFZ shows that by the end of September 2017 the provision of night and Christmas health care in the country was implemented by 421 healthcare providers in 533 delivery places and 141 entities expired on 1 October 2017. From 1 October, 496 healthcare providers provide benefits from the NPL in 572 places where they provide benefits. As a result of the competition proceedings carried out by the NFZ, the NFZ Voivodeship branches were selected 51 entities for the implementation of the NPL benefits. As regards monitoring of night and Christmas health care, both the Minister of Health and the NFZ monitor cases on an ongoing basis. I would just like to point out that during these three months there have been three minor cases that have been corrected on an ongoing basis. On the other hand, as regards the issue of additional measures, as a result of a sound budgetary position, the government decided to allocate additional resources to finance health protection. It was a sum of PLN 3.2 billion, of which PLN 1 billion went in the form of grants to the NFZ for overperformance. These developments concerned the years 2008 and 2017 so that they concerned a longer period of time. Out of this 1 billion, approximately 54 million concerned high-specialist benefits, while the remaining was due to overperformance of guaranteed benefits. We're in the process of clearing up all these funds. I would like to point out that out of this remaining amount of PLN 3.2 billion - 134 million it was the equipment of preventive offices in schools all over Poland, and 24 million it was the purchase of 16 dentobuses. And here I can say that today there is a regulation on the provision of benefits in dentobuses, and we are about to launch competitions for the selection of providers who will provide benefits in these dentobuses. However, the remaining amount of this 2.2 billion was the purchase of equipment for hospitals, especially institutes, oncology hospitals, third degree paediatric hospitals, neonatology, as well as the Air Rescue Service, regional blood centers, blood treatments and units subordinate to the health minister. As of today, from what I can tell, all funds have been used, even joint tenders have been made to buy this equipment, which still saved money, and as of today, we still have to settle accounts, because we know that all this has to be booked, so [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will be able to present details in the report on implementation of the budget. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Dziuk asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very exciting that the financial resources that are foreseen for healthcare will increase. So it is announced by the Ministry of Health and the Government of Law and Justice. The information was very exhausting, but I would just like to get an addition to night and Christmas care when there's verification, because we know that in a few places... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: In many places, not in a few.]] ...night and Christmas care doesn't work the way it's supposed to. It would therefore be necessary to analyse these issues in order to safeguard patients' needs. When this is settled financially, will it be in June or at the end of the first quarter? I'd really ask for an answer, 'cause patients [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what they're asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u276	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u277	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would just like to mention that, according to the impact assessment, a comprehensive analysis will be carried out of the hospital network law, i.e. the so-called. OSR ex post, in the third quarter of 2018 As I said, in the area of the NPL, the Minister of Health monitors this on an ongoing basis and these four cases that have occurred concerned situations related to the termination of clauses by resident doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u278	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on actions aimed at halting the wave of hatred and attitudes which promote fascism and Nazism led by the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the Ministry of Justice, which was requested by the Civic Platform Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. The time allowed for considering this point shall not exceed 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Monica Wielichowska. I inform you that I will keep time disciplines, because we have a significant delay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we were hoping for a constructive discussion and that today we would consider together how to solve a problem that is slipping away from your ruling, controlling and growing. We reacted, branded. You guys were talking and you're saying it's a margin of margins. Minister Brudziński spoke yesterday as a politician of the PiS with a historical talk and did not notice that it was something very important - hatred, which is a beginning of totalitarian systems and a source of racism, xenophobia and neophasism. For the past two years, we have shown your passiveness, tolerance and inaction, your silent consent, which is your shared responsibility. And for these two years we've been crashing into the wall of your ignorance and traditional rhetoric: it's not us, it's them, it's not us, it's not us, it's them. You are absolutely predictable in this and today you repeat the pattern known to everyone: others supported fascist organizations, and you are liberating the nation from this pathology. Today, you are pretending to be outrageous, playing sheriff and looking for the guilty everywhere - everywhere, but not in your ranks, not in your government and not among your fellow Members. But you will not shout the truth, because it is not the opposition, but the people of the United Right, Minister Ziobro, Kempa, Deputy Ministers of Jak, Wójcik, President of Kurski, President, President of the President of the Minister Andrzej Dera, Member of the Cymanski, who sang Solidarna Polska and Law and Justice hosted at their conventions known as anti-Semitic. Remind you where it was, where Mr. Rybak handed the flag to Jarosław Kaczyński, and PiS politicians were eager to photograph him? In Wroclaw. What was he doing at the Law and Justice Convention? Answer and explain to the Poles and Poles. These are PiS activists shoulder to shoulder with ONR activists, All-Polish Youth take part in celebrations in Giżycko, and it is in Gdańsk, and it is in the Opole Strzelce. It's your shame and your shame and your responsibility. A prosecutor from Bialystok, who led to the arrest of about 100 pseudokibites associated with neo-Nazi groups, was investigated and transferred from the National Public Prosecutor's Office to the District Attorney's Office. Do you know what's going on with the people in custody today? I'll tell you, most of them are out there. And do you remember the swastika case considered a symbol of 2013 happiness? During the rule of the Civic Platform, the prosecutor who dropped the case was punished and the prosecutor who supervised the case was dismissed. Tell the Poles where you were then. [[Applause]] No one's heard you protest at the time. No one has heard that Mr What or Mr Brudziński is outraged. In your day, this subpoenaed prosecutor was promoted. [[Disgraceful!]] At the time when the Platform was ruling, the court sentenced five demonstrators to imprisonment and fine, who shouted identical to the ones we heard during the so-called. The Independence March. You call the Independence March a beautiful event. No one, from police to prime minister, responded to xenophobic, hateful shouts and banners. You are extreme hypocrites. It was in your day that the Attorney General, who was overseen by Ziobra, appeals in favor of the anti-Semites of Piotr Rybak to prevent him from going to prison. It's a prosecutor, not a defense attorney. Międlar, Rybak - thank you very much for the fact that their cases have been dropped, the sentences have been relaxed. You're saying you have nothing to do with this, but these two gentlemen are officially thanking you for it. They're thanking Ziobra and thanking Jake. Today, with the increase in hate crimes, xenophobia, neophasism, you are destroying the state institutions that have been called into this, and you are not trying to fight back, to face up to the problem. Your prosecutors are acting in favor of the bandits, your prosecutors are undermining hate crimes and cutting off most of the proceedings. The Attorney of Ziobra did not see the signs of a crime in the words of an ONR activist screaming about Islamic scum and when she called for hatred, and when Miedlar spoke of oppressors and passive Jewish mob, this prosecutor also did not see the signs of a crime and dismissed the case. You know what the D.A.'s up to right now? He's an advisor to Marshal Kuchciński today. Zbigniew Ziobro, as head of the prosecution's office, must take political responsibility for failing to do so, apologize to the Poles and resign. Yesterday Minister Brudziński [[Applause]] He tried to translate himself from the mistakes and inadequacies of Ziobra, from the relationships of Solidarna Polska and PiS with anti-Semitics, for his predecessor Błaszczak. Hardly, Minister, defend your disgraced colleagues. It's too bad you're not in this room today because neo-fascists, anti-Semitics don't just sit in the woods and blow candles on Hitler's birthday cake. They're playing with you at your political conventions. They march through the city centers, [[Applause]] Sometimes they burn the Jew's puppet, sometimes throw a rock in the window of the Tusk family's house.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u280	Don't yell 'cause you're not at the market, you're in the Seym. Don't scream like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u281	This case is terminated, too. And they always sow hatred. And always in the absence of rulers... [[Voice from the room: Don't interrupt. What's this?]] And always in the absence of rulers, respectively, it is unambiguously condemning. We've repeatedly warned... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u282	This is the Sejm, not the market.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u283	...which leads to the consent of power to a growing wave of hatred. But you saw patriots in them, you didn't see fascists in them. The fact that you considered yourselves a better sort, the only Poles and the only true patriots...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u284	I'm warning you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u285	...we know that, but don't tell Poles today that you don't know Fisherman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or any other neonazi friends... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that you didn't use the support that you didn't smile at the photos together, that you didn't take it in the parliamentary offices... [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u286	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Please leave the podium. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! These emotions talk a lot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u288	In Krakow there is a tattletale for such performances. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Number of offences in Article. 119, 256, 257 of the Penal Code, i.e. hate crimes and the promotion of totalitarian regimes committed in 2013 and 2017 were as follows: the year 2013 and 474, such crimes, 2014 - 727, increase by 253, 2015 - 791, increase by 64, 2016 - 765, decrease by 26... [[Because you don't want to go after it.]] ... 2017 - a decrease of 39 and their number was... [[Voice in the room: 'Cause you don't detect it. TVN's doing this for you.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's do it!]] ... 726. In 2017, these crimes constituted less than 1 exclusion of all crimes committed. Look at this data. Remember that. The biggest increase was... [[Let's get to work.]] ...for your governments, in 2013 and 2014. Then, in the years to come... [[Because we've been chasing them, and you're dancing with them.]] ...the number of these crimes remains approximately similar, although in 2016 and 2017 it is slightly smaller. Crimes committed against parliamentarians and Members' Offices in 2014 and 2017: 2014 - 28, 2015 - 34, increase by 6, 2016 - 46, increase by 12, 2017 - 86, increase by 40, and this applies mainly to offices and parliamentarians of Law and Justice, although there are exceptions. Also look at this board and remember it too. It's worth it. [[Voice from the hall: If you rule, it's more.]] [[Since 2010, what have you done?]] Mr. Marshal, may I speak because I have the impression that yesterday's situation is repeated when there were all sorts of questions or exclamations, but no one would listen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was astonished to hear the questions asked by the opposition again, which dealt with issues identical to those I spoke about at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs last Wednesday, so on the eve of yesterday's debate, when I presented comprehensive information and answered questions concerning the activities of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration in connection with the alleged tolerance of the Government of Law and Justice supposedly developing in Poland of neophasism, neo-Nazim and such phenomena. [[Supposedly?]] The debate lasted 4 hours. Talking, discussing, giving information is almost four hours. My amazement was all the more that the same questions were asked by the opposition Members following a speech by Minister Brudziński in the Seym yesterday, who explained everything... [[It was a different subject.]] ...what required this, in the context of recent accusations, questions, opinions and assessments, mostly objective, biased, politically motivated and, most importantly and worst, harming the image of Poland. I will repeat once again: the Government of Law and Justice will never allow the behaviour promoting any totalitarian system to be tolerated in Poland. With regard to the events, the shameful events referred to in the material broadcast by one of the television stations by TVN24 will never be here on our part of consent, indulgence or tolerance. I'd like to say it again very strongly. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Opposite! Your actions are intentional and motivated only by the desire to convince, by force, especially European public opinion, because in Poland nobody believes that Poland is plunged into the confusion of neo-Naziism and neo-Phasicism. Dear opposition, fortunately, such a message is not sent to Poles. Why? Because he's just not true. [[Because you have the media.]] Mrs Mucha, I warn you that I will be drawing the consequences... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Poles, being an experienced, wise nation... ...if you scream again. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ... They've decrypted you a long time ago, as evidenced by the drowning public support for you. [[Voice from the room: So you approve?]] I also don't understand why TVN24 didn't inform law enforcement or make that information public for more than six months. I have no doubt that, in spite of yesterday's and today's explanations, to the Ministry of Justice, maybe to other resorts, probably to the Ministry of Justice... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Would you mind not yelling like that? [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...in the near future... Mrs Skowronska, I warn you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...there will be a series of interpellations that will come back... [[For what?]] ...to the exact same questions. You're not interested in the truth... [[Parliamentary freedom.]] ...and the safety, security of citizens, security of Poland. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. In the rules of the Sejm... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: You are interested in prolonged, negative noise and confusion around Poland and Poles. But you're wrong to think you're gonna put any political capital in it for yourselves. You're wrong. So I appeal, stop acting like this because it doesn't do any good. Again, after yesterday... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Do your job.]] You're testifying to your culture. The voters will judge you. Once again, in favour of last night's speech by Minister Joachim Brudziński, I strongly stress: on our part, both the management of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the entire government, there will be no consent to the behaviours promoting Nazism or fascism, neo-Nazism, neo-fascism, communism, neo-communism and other systems and totalitarian systems. There will be no permission for that. [[Was it?]] It's not gonna... [[It's not gonna be, is it?]] ...the consent to what is shown in the television material, which images have become a cause for... [[Start doing something at last.]] ...all week long, and it seems you're not going to end it yet, public debates. [[Voice from the room: Let's do it.]] I assure you that after the release of this appalling material, the state services did not remain passive, as was mentioned yesterday. You know that. [[And before?]] Strong and effective action has been taken towards individuals and organisations. I would like to remind you that the prosecution is in charge of this case and has commissioned them to the Internal Security Agency in accordance with their competence. As a result, the first arrests in this case occurred 48 hours after the release of the material. The subsequent arrests were carried out on Wednesday. The District Attorney's Office in Gliwice is conducting an art investigation. 256 § 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, i.e. public promotion of fascist or other totalitarian state system. So far, seven people have been accused of committing a crime, and six suspects have been subject to free prevention measures. High Izbo! Our country can't afford an endless fight. Please, once again... [[Something like that.]] ...let's unite our forces with one voice: zero tolerance. Really zero tolerance for any manifestation of totalitarian glorification, zero tolerance for Nazism and fascism, but also for communism. Let the names and monuments associated with criminal ideologies disappear from our streets. Support this process. Back me up, because you don't support me. According to the well-understood memory of our experiences, of the painful experiences of our nation and its heroes, let decommunization proceed also where your party colleagues exercise power. Be really consistent in fighting... [[Don't change the subject.]] ...signals of behavior referring to disgraceful totalitarian systems. In Warsaw, only in Warsaw, where your boss was very tall, prominent activist Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, Madam President, and you have a majority in the Council of M.S. Warsaw... [[You take care of yourself.]] ...the Voivodeship issued 103 replacement orders, including 50... sorry, 103 issued Mazowiecki Voivode, including 50 concerning Warsaw. So, what's the conclusion? Well, after more than a quarter of a century, you're defending these symbols... [[Talk about yourselves.]] ...communist. It took a bill of the Polish Parliament to force such self-governments... [[Talk about Nazism.]] ...like Warsaw. That's not enough. This bill isn't being executed. Voivodeships, that's government officials... [[Talk about racism.]] ...they must introduce the replacement decisions of those decisions which Poles were waiting for 25, 28 years. [[The commune fell in 1989.]] You guys were holding her back. Let us be in agreement in the fight against manifestations of promoting all totalitarianism. Let people wearing shirts with the likes of criminals disappear from the sidewalks of Polish cities. [[Voice from the room: Do something.]] Let Polish public space cease to exist organizations trying to be heirs of sick ideologies. In this area... [[Empty passwords.]] ...maybe, there shouldn't be a political dispute, and you're starting it. There is no place in Poland... [[At the convention...]] ...for tolerance towards the worshipers of criminals who created totalitarian systems. We Poles - hope that all Poles - as a national community we agree that Poland is a victim of totalitarianism, not their creator. Let's not switch roles. During yesterday's debate there was a very wise, important word: education. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, without reliable education, the next generations of young Poles will be exposed to sick indoctrination, to a false picture of history and it will generate false contemporary attitudes. Without knowledge of the past [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't build a future. [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Time.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I wish I had more time, because there's a lot I'd like to say. Maybe there's still a chance. [[I'll tell you, too.]] I'm sure you do. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I still have some numbers to show you, the board. It's worth it. Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I know you don't want to hear this. Now, Marshal. I know you're not interested. You're interested in... [[Sing with Fisherman.]] ...your image of reality, so false and so harmful. [[Applause]] [[Empty words.]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. [[Reality doesn't change. The reality will be the same.]] High Seym! We have this situation: 50 people are reported at the moment, we have 2 minutes for each speech, which would mean that not everyone will be present in time. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: After a minute.]] If there's a minute, everyone's gonna be here in time. What do you choose? 1.5 minutes, okay. So I'm opening up a list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club. 1.5 minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question to the Platform: Why do we skip the question of the third genocide force, also prohibited in our constitution - communism? To speak your language: Why this tolerance, or how about a sympathy for this criminal system? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I'm going back to your question about hate speech, fascism and Nazism. The question to the ministers, although you answered: How are the numbers, the frequency of the public attitudes that we are talking about, in 2016 and 2017 to their frequencies in previous years? And how is the current response of the relevant services and authorities to these incidents to this response in previous years? And to the authors of the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u290	The list of speakers is, of course, closed. Here you go, last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u291	Is fascism the attitude of the Polish patriot taking part in the celebrations on the occasion of the statutory national holiday, with the national flag? I am asking in the context of the statement by the Commissioner of the European Union, who saw 60,000 in Warsaw. Fascists. I've seen 60,000. people, many of whom went with children and national flags, Polish... [[And the rest?]] ...in a crowd where a handful of irresponsible fascists sneaked in. [[Don't make excuses.]] Why didn't you respond to those words and even justify the Commissioner? [[Where was the police?]] Do you think he had the right to say this in the European Parliament? Are you trying to eliminate the speech of hatred from the public language not only in Poland but also in Europe, or are you just trying to tell us the attitudes that we are effectively fighting, so that these attitudes are an absolute margin in our society? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the release in a private television station of material about neo-Nazis operating in Poland for the first time in 2 years politicians of the Government of Law and Justice decided to do whatever they wanted to condemn this type of activity. So far you've been silent about all racial attacks, beatings just because someone was speaking a different language, beatings just because someone had a different color. Unfortunately, your actions are quite disappointing, because we would like to hear in these debates which are being held in the Sejm about the real activities of the services which should deal with combating such extreme attitudes. Instead, we only hear information that has already been in the media. The image of these debates is terrifying, Minister. The PiS aren't working. You're only saying what's already in the media. Therefore, it is worth asking what actions the services have taken towards the association of Pride and Modernity. Was this organisation covered by any monitoring of the state services? What are the actions of the state services on other neo-Nazi organisations operating in Poland? How many such organizations work in Poland? How many people are under surveillance on this case? These are questions we've been asking the government for a week, and we can't hear any answers. These are questions... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, you can waving tables around here. I'm just wondering why you're not waving tables at the D.A.'s office. We know exactly what the prosecution's results are on this issue. I'll just read it to you and remind you, I can show you the table later. The increase in crimes for racist, anti-Semitic or xenophobic reasons: 2013 And you're telling me there's a downward trend? No, there's an upward situation. Therefore, I invite you or your representative on Tuesday, 30 January at 3 p.m. 12 for the debate in the Sejm in Chamber 14, in which NGOs, such as the Association of Never More, and the centre for monitoring racist behaviour will present facts - facts that have been presented in the brown book for many, many years. And you say zero tolerance? Do you know what you should be talking to each other first? No tolerance to silence. Because you keep your mouth shut and give permission to racist, xenophobic and neofascist actions. You - Law and Justice. And it is you who are responsible for what is happening in our country. I'd like to invite you to the conference again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then you'll know what the truth is. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Then you'll find out in the Seym. Please come. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u296	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland is a safe country for both us, Poles and foreigners visiting our country. [[For racists, too.]] This week I hosted a group of 20 women from Israel in the Seym. They were delighted with our culture, monuments and hospitality of Poland. [[And a fisherman setting fire to a Jew's puppet.]] They would love to return to our country... [[Did they meet Mosiński?]] ...and worked together in the fields of culture, science, business. Just let them do it, don't create the hate policy you're doing. [[But you are in charge, my fellow Member, you are in charge, your services are doing it, they are not doing it.]] In this connection, Minister, I have a question: What are the measures taken by the government to exchange young people and to cooperate in the field of business and science between these countries? Thank you. [[He's inviting Fisherman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I represent in this Chamber of Silesia, the land of the fish, the voivodship and the Racibor. These are the days when we commemorated and reminded the death march on the anniversary of this march, during which tens of thousands of prisoners from Oświęcim were driven in 20 degrees of freezing through our tired land, we saw on TV that it was not exactly what we thought it was - that fascism would not pass on this tired land. Unfortunately, today in a different light we look at this hat, which has been online for some time, on those people who were the heroes of this report, who were admitted to the salons and were politically promoted. At the moment, all the promoters are suddenly beginning to deny them: they are only private excesses of the president of the association - because even this association is blameless today. This is now just an image problem for you: in fact, these excesses were created by TVN and journalists, now all you have to do is wipe it all out. Everything else isn't your fault. You're the ones who pulled out those bums and let these people function. You're the ones who promoted the heroes of this story. They were opening letters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Seyms. It's today... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u300	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u301	...onr's spokesperson complains, tells the PiS to come to their senses and not support the left-wings in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u302	Ma'am, get off the stand. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For a long time the controversy has aroused the activity of the Youth of All Poland, the National Rebirth of Poland, the National and Radical Camp or the Duma and Modernity. Celebrating Hitler's birthday, hanging pictures of MEPs on gallows or issuing acts of death to local governments - these are just some of the shameful activities of these organizations. And what does the D.A.'s office do in many cases? The investigation is dying, as it was in the case of events in Katowice. I have a specific question and I ask you to answer it in writing. Minister, when are these organisations finally going to be posted? Today, governments have given a silent consent to the development of extreme organizations due to the understatement of their slogans. It's an image of something like this. the behaviour of the police arresting peaceful protesters against the extreme slogans on the March of Independence. Under the Minister of Justice, the prosecution looked favorably at investigations into the affairs of Justyna Helcyk, Jack Miedlar or Piotr Rybak, who during their hate sessions raised xenophobic and racist slogans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u304	Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u305	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that the cause of the increase in hatred in the last 10 years is the low level of public debate, soaked in growing verbal aggression, and the lack of respect, acceptance and tolerance for other views. I think the avalanche of this aggression was caused by someone other than a narrow group of prominent politicians, who, for example. Ten years ago, a democratically elected government publicly referred to as a moher coalition. The second person in the state of the incident of shooting the column of Polish President Lech Kaczyński in Georgia commented in such words, I quote: which president, such an assassination. The words begin to be missing when one hears the person who has previously held the highest offices in the Polish state speak publicly of personal satisfaction, seeing a messenger running from the Polish Sejm under police escort, hoping that this will remain so. That is why I wanted to ask you whether, in your opinion, the Minister's statements of this kind from politicians are not the cause of the spiral of aggression and hatred in society and whether their authors should not be held to criminal liability. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u306	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! We need to talk about facts because I think we're living in two different realities. Film material prepared by TVN and broadcasted in the cyclical program of the Superwisier.It merely confirmed what we have seen for a long time and what the prosecution did not want to see, nor the police. Today I hear a loud protest from representatives of the government and representatives of the PiS, but when someone warned about the rebirth of fascists, he was screamed and accused of attacking patriots. And now the facts. In accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No Mariusz Błaszczak has been shutting down the Human Rights Protection Team operating at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 10 years. The team was involved in monitoring and detecting hate crimes. When the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani reacts to the hanging of portraits of Polish MEPs by nationalists, the same Minister Błaszczak claims that the President is giving fake news addressed to him by total opposition from Poland. He is also talking about lies and false propaganda, but it is the councilman of PiS from Katowice Karol Wyszyński who writes such an entry, please: I agree with this. Add gallows and hang the entire PO. You couldn't react to Peter Rybak's scandalous words about the first lady, Agata Duda. This Rybak, I'll remind you, burned a puppet symbolizing a Jew, and now he's gone on calling himself the president's wife. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jewish. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Come to your senses, gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u308	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! In the mouth of Minister Zieliński, the words "zero tolerance" sound like a joke. You create the climate to violence, to hate. You're the political patrons. Many of you are obsessed with hating people with different views. And I'm not talking about sympathizers, I'm talking about functional people from your political formation. You want an example? There you go. Janusz Januszewski, Assistant to the PiS in July this year. He was stalking my parents. He wanted to give them the fall of the Middle Ages, possibly African performances with there-there, and he wanted to do such a coup... The rest can't be quoted, but it won't fit on one side of the manuscript. I filed a notice because I wanted to see how the PiS-owska prosecutor's office works, it's about the criminal threats from the article. 190. After three months, the P.I.A.'s attorney is dropping the case. He says it's within the limits of debate and political dispute, and the prosecutor should be far behind in such situations. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not be illusioned: PiS urges hatred because they care about hatred among Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u310	Oh, my God. Mr. Owl, your hands are dropping. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Hands fall off.]] Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u311	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Painfully experienced throughout history Poles refuse to promote totalitarianism, Nazism or xenophobia. [[Poles do.]] The incident involving several people shouting Nazi slogans, hiding in the thicket of the forest, was immediately followed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the ABW. To say that under the rule of law and justice there is any consent to such actions is simply a great wickedness. It is hard to resist the impression that the opposition deliberately uses a marginal event to destroy the image of Poland on the international stage. [[Voice from the room: Rybak.]] Is that what this is about? Is that where you're going with this? Yesterday, from this speaker, a Member of the Civic Platform was thundering: We do not want Poland in which we are singing so that Poland is Polish. [[You sang with the anti-Semites, Member.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: With Rybak.]] Today I from the Seym's lecturer ask: What Poland do you want, opposition? What's your point? Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u312	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u313	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I must tell you that to all of us who think who are Christians who are tolerant people who like another man is sorry to hear what you and your government colleagues are saying and what our PiS colleagues are saying here. A handful, margin, no, not applicable. There is no state, it is you who do not respond to all that is wrong. You shouldn't underestimate even one case. To Mr Duda... He's out. If there's one paedophile that hurts children, can you say, "There's only one, we don't do anything about it?" No, we're dealing with this paedophile. If there is a speech of hatred, if there is a lack of respect for another man who is the same as us and is also a Polish citizen, then he reacts. Minister, take your men under that board in the main hall. On this board are the names of Poles who died because of totalitarianism: at the hands of Germans or Soviet soldiers. You'll see what Poland was like. Today it is different, so all the more important to pay attention to it, and we need to bring back this advice, which has coordinated all issues related to intolerance, racism and xenophobia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it would be convenient for you to cooperate with the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u314	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u315	Where's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Where are the Secret Service? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u316	You're welcome. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You ignore the growing racism and xenophobia in Poland. You ignore the racist beatings that happen every day. You pose for xenophobic photos. So I ask you what you have to say, e.g. A 14-year-old beaten in the center of Warsaw for inappropriate skin color. Do I really need to remind you of those times when people with bad looks were afraid to walk the streets of Warsaw? What was the time? Even if you accept, as you claim, that the Polish Nazis are really such a marginal problem, even if you accept it, you really don't need to know anything anymore. It's about history, so you don't understand what it's like to turn a blind eye to fascist extremists. The history of the 20th century gives really shocking examples of what it leads to. At the same time, you're trying to make terrorists out of a non-prosecutive opposition. In order not to be literal, I'd like to show you the pictures. On one is the brutal intervention of the police against the legal anti-fascist picket, and on the other we have a racist banner carried by the center of Warsaw and illegal races. Against anti-fascists, the police refer cases to court, and nationalists can walk the streets of Warsaw with impunity. Like Talleyrand said, it's more than a crime, it's a mistake. And you turn a blind eye to the fascists, and you will suffer the consequences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u318	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There is no Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Young people often organize so-called ones before they go to a party. Bifor, that's a meeting that's supposed to be fun. Do you know what was such a bifor for celebrating Hitler's birthday in Wodzisław in April 2017? March, which was organized in February 2017 in Bielsko-Biała by PiS Members from the Silesian Voivodeship. It was marched by PiS-owski Vice-Vote, Mr Pięta side by side with racists and nationalists from ONR. It was a bifor for Hitler's birthday, which you organized. [[Applause]] I wonder if marching under flags with phalanga is not a support for racism and anti-Semitism. So, you got anything else up your sleeve? Anything worse you're preparing for the Poles? For the well-being of anti-semites, nationalists, fascists, you've done a lot. Your fellow Members make available to them the parliamentary offices, which are more often shouted with them by Poland for Poles, because it is really important to understand that, as you sing, Poland is Polish with an anti-Semitic and racist, it is as if it is singing about Poland for Poles and white Europe. This is what you want, this is what you promote, and this is what you prepare for Poles. [[Applause]] You guys really need to think about this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And I don't know if you have enough imagination to say... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u320	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this very tragic situation took place in Lower Silesia, where I came from. I would like to ask the Minister why the report, which was prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, does not touch at all the heart of all the redemptions that were just about racist issues? I will tell you more, there is also Mr. Rybak, who performed with Minister Ziobro in the joint singing, and then the Minister asks for a reduction in the penalty for this gentleman. Why do such situations occur? I just want to stress that all elements of xenophobia, chauvinism should be crushed in the germ. And there is no room for discussion whether it is of such character or not. No, we are experienced in the history of the 20th century, and it is our duty to oppose such events. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u322	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, In TVN on 24 January 2018, at 3 p.m. 19 used one of the photographs, among others. with my image in the program entitled: Polish neo-Nazis are a marginal margin or a serious problem. Here's a shot from the TVN screen with a picture... [[Don't brag.]] ...on which, apart from us, the parliamentarians, are also the inhabitants of Giżycka, where we solemnly unveiled a plaque dedicated to the enchanted soldiers. [[With ONR.]] Using our photo of the ceremony dedicated to the heroes of Poland... [[Falanga was on their shoulder. You're getting along with ONR.]] ...in the program about Hitlerites is a disgusting manipulation of misleading viewers, which undermines our good name, but above all creating a psychosis of fear of paying tribute to heroes of Poland. Minister, is there a legal possibility in this case and in similar cases that the services under your command should investigate the media in this case against TVN TV? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u324	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The election tactics of the PiS in 2015 consisted in building a climate of threat from refugees and the sharing of Poles on the PiS-Patriots and Communists and thieves. The language of sharing and pointing out the enemy dared the patriotic environment supporting the PiS. Two years of your governments summarized the nationalist march of freedom on 11 November, and the next two years open up the nationalistic scandalous activity of Pride and Modernity, which for the taxpayers' money celebrated the anniversary of Adolf Hitler's birth. Nationalism raises its head, and what does the PiS government do about it? I ask you to answer why in 2016 Minister Błaszczak dissolved the MSWiA Team on Protection of Human Rights and whether it was an action at the request of Robert Winnicki. Why in 2016 Prime Minister Beata Szydło abolishes the Council for Foreign Affairs Against racial discrimination? Why are NGOs dealing with violence being deprived of funding? Why was the Monitoring Centre for Rasist and Xenophobic Behaviour deprived by the police of all computer equipment and did this happen at the request of ONR and Jack Miedlar? Why the D.A.'s office dropped the charges against Justyna Helcyk and Jack Miedlar and whether it was due to the intervention of the D.A.'s deputy... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[The minister had 30 seconds more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u326	Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u327	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Do you remember the ONR march, during which the slogan was proclaimed: And the Zionists will hang on trees instead of leaves? There's no consequence. Do you remember the prosecutor who called the swastika Eastern symbol of happiness? Maybe she's in the east, but not with us. It was probably an incident in Bialystok. There's no consequence. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about a handful, but it's just a handful in one of the breweries in Bavaria that started all this, all this rage, the rage of killing, killing. [[Applause]] You can't ignore a handful of them. It's not a handful, margin margins, they're potential killers. [[Applause]] [[The police responded immediately.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u328	Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First to the opposition: You say that fascism is born in Poland. More, you are wondering how to stop fascism in Poland. The Poles know, and I say that you too know that this is not true. Then why the farce? Stigmatisation with the words "fascism," "fascist" is a favorite socio-technical procedure of the modern left, also post-communists, excluding the attacked man or nation, or the state from the possibility of any defence in the discussion, presenting its arguments, even excluding from the international community. A country that can make fascism look good if attacked, no one wants to defend it, but a nation to feel sorry for it. [[That's why we're expecting a reaction.]] Madam, the Polish language knows a very precise definition of what you are doing. Those are the two words: predicament and marketplace. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Scandal.]] A question for the Minister. Did the Civil Platform run the service [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] any real recognition of extremely left-wing environments and extreme right-wing environments? [[Voice from the hall: Shame and shame.]] [[How can the Catholic Church be so insulted?]] If so, what were the results? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club. [[A briefing for the envoy may be, Mr. Marshal.]] If I had to teach every one of you here, I'd have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! For two days we've been hearing... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can you hold your time?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u332	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u333	Mr. Marshal, we've been hearing for two days: it's not us, it's them, despite the fact that they've been working together with organizations that preach racism and xenophobia. I'll remind you. On 12 November 2012, information was considered in the Sejm on prevention against the activity of extreme right-wing groups and the escalation of xenophobic incidents. Not only did none of the PiS Members speak in the discussion, but this side was empty, no one was sitting here. There are a handful of you today, but there aren't many of you. In the current term, Members of the Civic Platform have asked two questions on current issues, 26 interpellations and two questions on widespread hatred, xenophobia and fascism. What is the activity of the PiS Members? Zero, zero. You say you're fighting this phenomenon. In my city of Przemyśl, the police are chasing and interrogating a woman who has the courage to stand up in protest against your undemocratic governments. On the other hand, other people known by name, who indirectly interfere with religious celebrations and prevent cultural events of minorities living in Przemyśl, are completely unpunished. In Podkarpacie, the doctor publicly says: I was, I am, and I will be racist. The reaction of the authorities... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u334	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Zieliński, who was here by his colleagues from the government left alone... In fact, Prime Minister Morawiecki should be here, who recently said that one of the priorities will be to fight the growing speech of hatred. It is clear that the Prime Minister remains solely in the area of the declaration, in the area of PowerPoint, because when it comes to action, the Prime Minister is not there. On the other hand, Minister Zieliński - let's say - proposed: to stop fascism together. Minister, words, words, words. Unfortunately, these words have nothing to do with your actions. The last few examples. The data of the persons who came to the Sejm in T-shirts marked "Constitution" can be determined immediately. When it comes to the data of people who carry racist banners, it takes three months, and you don't know the data, you don't know who did it. You're directing applications to punish people who claim to comply with the law by the PiS, and as far as the prosecution is concerned, she's cutting back on the hate speech that an ONR activist has done. Your actions have nothing to do with what you declare here, what you ask for. You pulled the textbook that was supposed to teach the police how to recognize hate speech. It's all gone. So, Minister, for you, a quote from Tuwim... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...with layers growing... Minister, you're not going to be seen from behind all this bullshit in a minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u336	Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No tolerance for any manifestation of promotion, affirmation, glorifying the criminal totalitarian systems, such German Nazism as Soviet communism - said here, here, yesterday, Minister Joachim Brudziński, Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. And what about this speech are the mainstream media, which stand side by side with politicians of total opposition? [[Rydzyk, co-financed by the government.]] Yeah. In the main edition of the information program one of the stations uses scandalous graphics, combining the constitutional minister of the government of the Republic of Poland against the background of the swastika. [[The homeless guy's cars.]] Mr Szłapka, this is a disgraceful, indecent, and violating Polish law... [[But taking cars from homeless people is decent, isn't it?]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Tramp is in the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u338	It's like...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u339	...injuring Poland and Poles especially in these days, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Marshal, you're not reading well.]] And there will be no such Goebbels propaganda of our consent. [[Room voice: Zero tolerance.]] That's why, Minister, I have a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u340	Mr President, please do not use such terms.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u341	In connection with such practices, does the Ministry of MSWiA provide for a request to the National Radio and Television Council to punish the station for violating the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Great idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, one brief sentence about history. Minister Brudziński was gracious yesterday to mention here the names of the fallen insurgents, to mention the book by Melchior Wańkowicz, the herb on the crater, about Jan Rodowicz, about Krystyna Wańkowicz. I refuse your government the right to invoke the legacy of the Warsaw insurgents. The argument is one and simple. It reaches the year 2016 and refuses to promote the soldier of the Grey Private Major. Leszek Żukowski. This refusal of promotion was presented and justified by Antoni Macierewicz. At that moment you lost your right to invoke the Warsaw Uprising. [[Applause]] If Jan Rodowicz were alive, if Krystyna Wańkowicz lived and demanded that there should be no Smoleńsk appeal of the fallen during the anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising, you would not have promoted them either. Secondly, it is not our fault that racism, anti-Semitism, xenophobia and homophobia are getting better under your rule. It is not our fault that you invite Dr. Tomasz Panfil from the IPN in Lublin to public television. It is not our fault that this expert of yours says that the Jews were doing quite well when the Germans came in, because they only had to wear blindfolds. And this man dares to speak on earth where Sobibor is, Belzec, where gassed and... Why are you smiling, can you tell me? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Are you smiling?]] 800,000 were incinerated. Jews only in these two places. Poland under your rule is browning and this fact... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...will not cover your propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u344	Mr President, the level of foolishness must have some limits, but it turns out that there are no limits. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Who are you talking to? What right?]] I'm so sorry, I have to tell you this. [[Do you have a mirror in there?]] There you go, Mr Adam Snatch. [[Voice from the room: Your friends.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the marshal should respond to this reaction, because it taunts the High House. Madame, when she hears the name Sobibor, she laughs ironically. This is an outrage... [[To the ethics committee.]] ...that offends the High House. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is an outrage.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your branding of the material in TVN24 about the Nazis, about these ignorant idiots, is embarrassingly funny. 'Cause you guys are branding actions. Minister Joachim Brudziński spoke in a long speech about some minor historical facts, but did not say anything about any actions you want to take. You can't even hide the fact that you guys are allowing and supporting extreme organizations. And for that there's simple evidence, there's simple evidence of what your D.A.'s office is doing. Minister, this is your constituency, Bialystok. What did you do when the D.A. dropped the swastika investigation in Limanowa? What have you done, Minister? After all, you, as a Member, should respond to this. Nothing. What did you do, Minister, or what did the government do when there was a motion to reduce Fisherman's sentence? Nothing. On the other hand, people who defend the honor of Poland, people who stood up against the marches of fascists, you are dragging the prosecutors, using the police and pressing charges against them. I say, for example. about the Association of Nationals of the Republic of Poland. You cut the charges against Rybak, drop the charges against this man from Duma and Modernity, and drag him to the D.A.'s office... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Władysław Frasyniuk. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u346	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u347	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Chief! In 2011, 2013, 2015 celebrities were flaunting swastikas, flaunting the running SS signs. There was no response. But these are your celebrities, these Europeans, these light ones, those who are now... [[It's outrageous.]] ...they support you during... [[Voice from the room: Who? What are you talking about?]] ...the CODE marches. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland Internet... [[Name!]] [[Voice from the room: Name.]] ...in Poland so experienced by the criminal actions of Germans... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...Nazis during World War II are not allowed to operate those who refer to this criminal ideology. [[Name.]] I say this as a Member of the Świętokrzyskie Land, where there are hundreds of places commemorating German Nazi crimes. [[Please give examples. Specific examples.]] Mikhniów, where the Museum of Martyrology of Polish Villages is located, is just such a place. There are people in the world who would like to come from Poles... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...a nation of victims to make a nation of criminals. Don't you feel at this point that this whole discussion, yesterday, today, is very helpful to these people? Because these people also use the term: Polish death camps all the time. [[Then why are you protecting them?]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that this narrative is for the benefit of these people? [[If you were working, there wouldn't be any discussion.]] And don't you get the feeling that they're sitting there, covering their hands and thinking about you: nützliche idiot? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u348	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's for the Member who's leaving at the moment. If we keep our mouths shut, do you think they're gonna split up in these woods and go for mushrooms? No. I represent Radom land. I was there, and I saw with my own eyes those young people who are often from a good home. I guess my parents didn't even know about it. Perhaps they knew the baby had gone on a picnic. But what they presented, someone was working on. When they started making texts that aren't here to be repeated, when they started attacking vulnerable, often elderly people... Radom could have handled this without your police force, Minister, because the police were hired to go to another end of town, the police who were still piloting this group. And if we later hear the current Marshal Mazurek that she understands these young people, then I don't know who to talk to. Perhaps we would first need to have a debate closed with Members who would know what ethics is and especially social relations on the street. 'Cause I think we have a problem with... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Some Members... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u350	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will the Minister have the courage to stand here and say that he will do everything in his power to delegalise such organizations, including ONR and the All-Polish Youth, as part of the announced and started fight against fascism and Nazism promoted in Poland? Will the Minister be able to say this here and declare to us that no organization which calls for totalitarianism will have the right to exist in Poland? Minister, in the framework of the fight, did the Minister withdraw the police guide on hate crimes? Did you, in the framework of the fight, eliminate the Panel on Human Rights? Protecting Human Rights, who fought against racism and hate speech? In the fight against hatred, did the Minister reject the proposal for a law on modern hate speech? Why were charges against the president of the Pride and Modernity Association dropped? Why wasn't there a reaction to the racist subtitles on the march of independence? Is this the fight the Minister announced and announced? Non-governmental organisations report that the issues of hate speech, racist slogans, xenophobic slogans referring to totalitarianisms which are promoted on the Internet are generally resolved. And this is the data of the National Attorney's Office. Is the Minister going to do something about it so that there's no such universal remission of these cases? And why, Minister, do you think that the center of Warsaw or the center of Katowice, where all these racist slogans were proclaimed, is that a margin? Because it's not a margin, and it's not bushes, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u352	Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Bartholomew... Excuse me, Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a request from the Minister that he may answer a very specific question in particular. Minister, that is the interpellation of one of the Members on the defense of Falanga. One of the police officers in Tarnobrzeg showed the symbol of Falanga as a fascist organization from prewar times. And in your reply to this interview, you explain that you've already told these cops that you've withdrawn the manual, that it won't happen again. [[Disgraceful! PiS-evil disgrace!]] Explain to me whether this is a fight against Nazism, against fascism, against anti-Semitism, which Falanga was the leading leader in interwar Poland. It's another case. We know the head of ONR in Wrocław, who makes such speeches: we are ruled by Jewish imperialists, let not the Islamic scum destroy the Polish people, etc. The local D.A.'s office is filing an indictment, the file goes to court. At the request of the prosecutor from Warsaw supervising the prosecution in Wrocław, the case is withdrawn. Bogdan Święczkowski, National Attorney, says they've been withdrawn because there are no signs of a criminal offence. About this famous demonstration ONR in Bialystok was already spoken. All of Poland, many millions of people heard the ONR walking and chanting: and Zionists will hang on trees instead of leaves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Minister Ziobro didn't hear that. [[Applause]] [[But they agree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[We are the High House, not the honourable state.]] Today, contrary to obvious facts, you are attacking the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Justice or the Police, accusing them of inaction against those who promote criminal ideologies: fascism and communism. [[Voice from the hall: And you laugh all the time.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[High Izbo!]] Under the rule of the Civic Platform, in addition to illegal provocations against the communities of the Nation on the March of Independence... [[These are questions for the Minister.]] ...trying to cause riots and torch a booth under the Russian embassy the police and services have carried out preventive action against extreme left-wing and right-wing environments? [[That's a question for the Minister, Marshal.]] [[The minister needs to be addressed.]] And how they were... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u356	I am sorry, Madam, because here Members will shout, asking if you are speaking correctly. [[The minister's office.]] I would like to point out that the majority of your Members are saying wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u357	Weak Opposite! What kind of language did the CODE speak when you went with him to the demonstrations? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[In Polish, Member. ONR in the woods, but don't exaggerate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform Club. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We've been hearing government assurances for two days: zero tolerance. We hear assurances that there will be no more consent, there will be no unpaid investigations, etc. For 2 days in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland there has been a resolution of the club Modern, whose title is: the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the condemnation of Nazism, fascism and communism. The 20th century showed Europe and the whole world what totalitarian systems lead to, allowing the development of hatred towards particular national or social groups. This resolution could not be adopted because of the opposition of Marshal Terletki. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] It happens that all the laws pass through the Sejm during one sitting, and you cannot adopt a resolution condemning Nazism and fascism in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! People will judge you by your actions, not by words, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u360	Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In one, as we once heard, from the friendly TV stations, who were friends with the opposition, there was a material in which a film from World War II was shown. In the role of the main German soldier separating mother and child. In subsequent shots - politicians of the PiS. There was a suggestion that they were ignoring fascism. It's a horrible manipulation. I am an envoy from Łódź land. Ladies and gentlemen, I know the consequences of such manipulation and lack of reason. [[Applause]] [[You'll look at the public media.]] Come to your senses and ask your friends on TV as well. Thank you. [[TVP.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u362	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! During today's block of votes, Members of the Civic Platform made the following the following thesis: Why does the government underestimate the behavior that took place in the forest, where a group of people celebrated the birthday of one of mankind's greatest criminals? Another said they were ignorant idiots. When Law and Justice introduced a reform of education, which was agreed in the election campaign with society, the proposed changes included restoring a worthy place to teach history. The Minister of Education of the Coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party preached everywhere and in the face, giving interviews that the proposed changes, I quote, is the dream of the madman unconscious. You've seen this, the opposition state. As long as we forget that history is necessary for us to understand the present, for so long such marginal incidents promoting fascism, totalitarianism will occur. In your reigns, you almost wiped out the history of the curriculum. [[Don't lie to me.]] Junior graduating didn't know the history of his home country today. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Why are you hypocritical today? [[Applause]] [[And now he's gonna learn the story of PiS-owsk with the rustling of heroes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u364	Mr Marek Grunkles, Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice. There it is. [[Voice from the room: It was just a moment ago. He was sitting down.]] Thanks to the fact that there are no others, perhaps all those who speak will have time to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you since you've been lying so wonderfully. I am many years old and went to celebrations related to the festivals of independence of Poland. In the times of the Polish People's Republic, I was beaten, chased, we were not allowed to celebrate Christmas. [[And Crysto was convicted.]] [[Voice from the room: He was just interrogating?]] When I was on the march in 2012, among those who walked, there were mothers with small children, with wheelchairs, elderly people, veterans, guests from Hungary, and among you there were those who were on the civilian side and threw into the militia prepared at the side of the pavement. They were provocatives who later gave way to uniformed police. And the president of the city of Warsaw at Nowy Świat café allowed German fascists to come and chase as anti-fascists the Polish demonstration of patriots... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. There is no Member. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I address the Members of the opposition. It's the country in this room that uses hate speech. It was nobody else, only one of the MPs from the speaker shouted that we wore brown shirts. It is nobody else, only your Members have created the so-called. A list of national disgraces. It was mostly the offices of Members of the Law and Justice that were attacked and assaulted. Even on the door of my office, an unknown perpetrator glued a swastika with a sign that says, "Let go of fascism." [[That's what we condemn.]] I am, of course, sorry when our Members are provoked in this Chamber and also raise their voices, but I do not blame them. Minister! Please inform me what actions have been taken in cases of assault against the Members' Offices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You don't have an MP? [[There isn't.]] Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is the task of the state to react when order and security are at stake. This threat especially in Poland, among us Poles, is the promotion of fascist, Nazi or communist ideology. It's indisputable: react at every stage. [[Where were these reactions? It wasn't.]] But you accuse us, Law and Justice, of everything. You're repressing, and you have to have a lot of bad will here, that we can anticipate what a person will do next year. I mean showing pictures of Piotr Rybak and our electoral conventions. [[But you're still defending him. The florist pardoned him.]] Let me remind you that these electoral conventions took place in 2014. [[So what?]] That's all you know, but you have a lot of bad will. [[Is that all right?]] But remember, whoever blows the wind collects the storms. Unfortunately, the Germans are happy. [[They'll come for you too, unfortunately.]] You're part of their historical policy. Remember, whoever blows the wind collects the storms. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[You're picking up these storms now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u370	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. [[You have no shame.]] Sir, you're not in the pub. Please take your seat and don't disturb me. [[And they're standing there, too. Look.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Often, in the speeches of the President, there is such a term that he wants Poland to be an island of freedom and tolerance. Today, the question arises as to who is to be the island of tolerance. Recent events show that it is mainly an island of tolerance for criminals, for Nazis, for national socialists, for xenophobics, for anti-Semitics, for all those people who shouldn't have space. Art. The 13th Constitution is very precise. It prohibits the existence of political parties and other organizations which refer in their programs, in their methods of action to totalitarian methods, to totalitarian systems. No one will forget that it was the government of Beata Szydło that dissolved the Council for Foreign Affairs in 2016. Anti-Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and associated Intolerance. No one will forget it was Minister Błaszczak who disbanded the task force. Protection of Human Rights in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which was the primary contact in this department not only for national, but also for international institutions, including the OSCE. It's all yours. They led to the situation we're dealing with. And this is the moment, Minister Zieliński, to apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u372	Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one brief question. For the past few days, we've been talking about a known movie that's outraged everyone so much. I have a question: Do we, citizens alone, have a duty or do journalists have an obligation to react immediately and inform law enforcement authorities about the crime they committed? [[No, they don't.]] Because the amazing fact that the film was recorded in May, and then, as it turns out and as journalists explain, was extended in time and in November were shown there pictures of the hanging of portraits of MEPs, and it was supposedly caused by the extension of this film and only now by disclosure. And I wonder if journalists of known television have the ability to predict the future, and in May they already knew that in November they would be like this and not other behaviours of such an association. It's amazing. I wonder who's really behind this. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, that's right. Of course, a few idiots certainly, those who were in the woods and who... [[The bell, the Vice Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Not just idiots.]] [[Law and Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u374	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. Thank you very much, Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[They have already arrived on the streets of Warsaw, Polish cities along with you.]] Mr Lassota is not here. [[There it is, there it is.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u375	It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u376	There you go. Oh, please, from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u377	Thank you, Marshal, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u378	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u379	High Izbo! Of course, the defendant is, as you can see, TVN. This also happened yesterday in the statements of Minister Brudziński, and today - Minister Zieliński and many Members of the PiS. Sure. Unfortunately, if there's ever something bad going on in your governments, you're doing this kind of childish pushing on others: it's not us. Yesterday or today, any such information comes down to what happened, and it's false information, in the days of the Platform and the PSL, instead of taking the bull by the horns. In fact, all I have is an appeal to Minister Zieliński and others who are smiling... [[Voice from the room: It's foaming.]] ...not very decent in this debate to stop being cowardly so you can stop growing this sandbox and say it wasn't me because Franek did it. We're really not gonna get far this way. The Minister said there would be no consent. There will be no consent, that is, he said in the future. I hope that's true. I don't believe it, because you have it in your blood, but if you say there will be no consent, then you confirm that it has been. So really come to your senses. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It wasn't, and it isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u380	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That sounds very bad when Members who are members of a parliamentary majority club blame what has been exposed, journalists. There was a time when all the blame was attributed to dwarfs. Those were bad times. You're referring to the worst patterns. That sounds very bad today, especially when we should have a serious debate. That sounds very bad today when Poland visits the Secretary of State of the United States of America Rex Tillerson. It will look very bad when during talks with Polish politicians here in Warsaw, this kind of questions will be asked: Why does the government ignore the dangers of waking up these horrors from the past? [[That's what you're talking about.]] It's gonna sound really bad. Use your time you'll have in this bleacher, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To tell you that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u382	Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u383	High Izbo! The issue of public promotion of the fascist state system and public provocation to hate against racial, ethnic and religious differences on the Independence March in Warsaw last year is not the only situation to which the Polish state lacks a response in the country. In the TV programme, entitled "The Bible'. Polish neo-Nazis could be familiar with the structures they call for in Poland to promote neo-fascist content, their activists' structures, their behaviours and the activities they organise. This is proof that there is no proper control of the national groups, that their activities are poorly monitored and poorly combated. In a country where hundreds of thousands of innocent people were murdered during World War II, the initiator of which was Adolf Hitler, there must be no situation that he is connected and connected with Polish patriotism. At the same time, the television material shows the inaction of the Polish state in tracking and controlling associations and foundations that camouflage their real activities. Minister, the question is: What knowledge do you have about organized secret events, meetings that are organized? What knowledge do Polish law enforcement agencies have regarding associations such as Pride and Modernity, the Orle Nest Foundation? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u384	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Hitting with keys on testicles, forcing to sit naked, sitting on a police stick set on a torturer, gasping in a closed car - according to the reports of the participants of the events the police acted, forcing the confession to be made during the action of the Fork. [[And you defend them, you march with them.]] It was organized in 2008 by Grzegorz Schetyn, today CODE enthusiast. Now there are about 100 acquittal sentences in the case, and the rest of the 752 detained are still waiting for convictions. This is the January information of that year. I could give you a lot of similar examples, but I'm quoting this one. He reminds me very much of the action not from the time of the Third Polish Republic, but from a slightly earlier period. I am speaking to you as a Łódź woman who remembers that on 19 October 2010 a homicide was committed at the headquarters of Law and Justice. I am also speaking to you as the daughter of a soldier of General Maczek, who has been exposed to totalitarianism of Bolshevik and German. Therefore, I have only one question. What is the scale of hate crimes? Is the number of these crimes rising or falling? What was the case with the POs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question for the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u386	Thank you very much. Now I'm gonna ask the Minister for an answer? Of course, the applicant's representative, Ms Monika Wielichowska, will speak first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u387	Minister Zieliński, you're lying when you say the Ministry doesn't have tools to control public collections. There's art. 15 Law on the rules for public collections, which expressly prohibits it if it violates the law. I recommend art. 15. [[Applause]] That's one thing. Secondly, you, Minister Zieliński, can insult the opposition, insult the intelligence of Poles and pass on further empty words on behalf of the government. You say zero tolerance. What you did, how the government reacted to the so-called. The Independence March, established by you as a cyclical march, which was filled with xenophobia, and carried on it Nazi slogans and banners? You said it was beautiful. So you did zero, but this is 100%. tolerance. What did you do, how did the government react to being in the center of Katowice gallows with photos of Platform politicians? You said it was happening. You didn't do anything, 100%. Your tolerance. What was it that Ziobra, Jak, Kempa, Dera, Wójcik doing at the Solidarity Convention of Poland, I will repeat once again, anti-Semita Piotr Rybak? Poland was Polish - they sang. At the Law and Justice Convention, he handed the flag to Kaczyński. His presence is 100%. Your tolerance or zero tolerance? I'm already getting lost in all this. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] When your politicized prosecutor's office dies in the process... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...for hatred, for anti-Semitism, for xenophobia, for neo-Nazi, that's zero tolerance, or that's 100% tolerance? Think about it. If, at the request of the nationals, you withdraw the textbook on hate crimes for police officers, eliminate the anti-racial anti-discrimination advice and eliminate the human rights protection team, which was a key government anti-racism cell, that's zero tolerance, or that's 100% tolerance? Answer me. The Internet is flooded with movies, photos, information about how for years Law and Justice flirted with nationalist radicals, with anti-Semits, hoping for their votes. It's zero tolerance or it's 100% tolerance? I'm asking for your answer, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Answer.]] Minister Zieliński, I inform you, because you may not have noticed, while the police were pouring confetti over you, decomposing a red carpet, wearing an umbrella or blocking half the city for your arrival, that anti-Semitics and neo-fascists began marching more and more boldly in Poland. It's getting bolder because they've had and they've got your government permission to do it. We have repeatedly warned about what the permission to rule on an increasing wave of hatred leads to, but you see patriots in them. You call them patriots. You've never seen fascists in them, and you don't see fascists in them today either. Minister Zieliński, the country you are running, the Polish state does not work, the state does not fight Nazism. [[Voice from the room: No, not at all.]] He doesn't fight hate, he doesn't fight xenophobia, he doesn't fight homophobia and everything that hates causes. [[It's fueling her up.]] Do you know who fights hatred, fascism, homophobia, xenophobia, anti-Semitism in Poland? Yes, the opposition. The opposition, NGOs and media that you hate so much, except, of course, PiS TV, but there President Kurski also danced, played, sang... [[Voice from the hall: Polish, Polish.]] ...with an anti-Semitic Fisherman. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] You continue to maintain and maintain that this is the margin of margins. [[Right.]] Minister, it's time to get to work. We're ready. You know what? I found myself 30 of my speeches, which I wrote on behalf of my colleagues from the Civic Platform on Sunday. Take a look at this. [[Applause]] What's wrong You've been texting me back. You didn't see anything wrong. You didn't see anything wrong with marching with phalanges, with more and more headlifted people full of hate. I want you to analyze your answers. You have 30 interviews and speeches, questions on current issues. We wrote, we talked, we informed, and you always said it was a margin of margins. And I'm telling you, he's not. Poles see it, and Poles will judge it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u388	Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Affairs... Excuse me, please speak... [[Sports, it doesn't matter.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michał Wosie. [[Only culture has construction.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u389	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I will answer briefly, because you are rather expecting an answer from my colleague, Minister Zieliński. The amount of lies that have died here is simply astonishing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Well, there's zero tolerance. [[Voice from the hall: End of story.]] We showed you what you look like... [[Answer me, you're a clerk.]] ...with zero tolerance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice in the O.R.: Answer the questions.]] And the most astonishing, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this current information, which is this growing wave. Well, for God's sakes, ladies and gentlemen... [[Answer me.]] ...what rising wave? [[Don't bring God into this.]] There are specific data here, and this particular data was presented by the Minister, too, and that is... [[Only from the police, from the D.A.'s office.]] ...on the day the Polish Sejm adopted the Act on the Protection of the Good Name of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, facts, very briefly, facts. When was the Association of Pride and Modernity formed? 2011 And what, it was rule of the law... [[And who was the minister? Gowin.]] ...and Justice then? No, it was the Civic Platform. When... [[Gowin was Vice Minister.]] ...was the status of a public benefit organization, an OPP, for Duma and Modernity? 2014. And that's the year after that... [[Gowin, a friend from the government.]] ...as the words were said: we go, we come for you. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said many times about Międler... [[Go to ONR with the phalanx...]] ...and other proceedings. Indeed, in most of these proceedings there was no remission or withdrawal of the act. After all, the treatment of Międlar continues. Check it out. Check it out carefully, and don't lie here, from the Seym Court of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[What right does an official have to talk to a Member like that?]] One question has been asked, High Sejm, about what the prosecution has done. I'll answer you: immediate action, 72 hours and they've all been detained, they've been detained within the next few hours... [[Especially in Katowice.]] ...next. The ABW has taken proceedings for the National Public Prosecutor's Office. On the day of issue... [[You're funny.]] ...the Supervisier has been ordered to initiate the procedure. And finally, ladies and gentlemen... [[What are your servants doing?]] ...the biggest, worst manipulation. Well, I could ask, too. I've heard about it here, about the relationships of Solidarna Polska with anti-Semitics. Swimming and singing... [[Oh, sorry, sorry.]] ...with an anti-Semitic. Well, by analogy, I can ask you about the links between Platform, Modern, PSL and others in the coalition with CODE... [[You're the clerk, answer the questions.]] ...with a pimp, someone who deals with people. Does that mean something to you: Konrad N.? Konrad N. [[Voice from the room: Get off this podium.]] [[Do you remember a guy like that? I remember.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can show you his pictures, but I won't show you... [[Voice from the room: Why are you lying?]] ...these pictures. I'm not gonna show these pictures. I could show you the pictures where you... [[Voice from the room: But show me. Why are you lying?]] ...are on CODE demonstrations along with the leader of the CODE-Kapel. Ladies and gentlemen, I could also show Donald Tusk's pictures, but I'm not gonna do it because we, the government of law and justice, have some decency in us, and we assume that Donald Tusk... [[But what pictures of Donald Tusk?]] ...he didn't know when he was dating Fisherman that his views would be radicalized. He didn't know that his... [[Voice from the room: He didn't know?]] ...the views will be radicalized. You can show... [[The voice from the hall: He didn't sing with him...]] ...a lot of photos of different politicians with different people who... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is not responding.]] ...then they have multiple charges. What's more... [[Voice from the room: Show me.]] ...one more word, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] An indictment against Rybak when he went to court? [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a Member with immunity, it is a State official.]] In the days of the prosecution under the rule of law and justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u390	Member, no... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: He filed for pardon. Let's be different from them. [[What a right, Mr. Marshal, this man behaves like this.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Who turned down the pardon application? [[You're a clerk. Act like a clerk.]] Who rejected him? The Public Prosecutor's Office under the rule of law and justice led by Minister Zbigniew Ziebra. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Who is this guy anyway?]] ... Rybak was punishing in the electronic surveillance system and went behind bars. [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] Among other things, after the sentence of the Prison Service, to put him behind bars. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: To the whole.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask you to speak... [[Voice from the room: none of your business.]] [[No, it's a public matter.]] ...Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u391	Do you know this picture? Do you know this? [[Voice from the room: You are.]] It's one of the pictures from your time. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Who is this?]] [[Voice from the room: Who is it?]] This is Mr. Michał Witkowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u392	But what are you doing in that passage? [[Did you call the D.A.'s office? Art. 304.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u393	... 2015 Łódź, public address. Maciej Tinyczuk...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u394	Sit down in peace. [[Art. 304. Did you call the D.A.'s office?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u395	...a pendant with rainbow swastika. I got it. Also on the phone, I can show you. Come in, I'll show you. Your time, your governments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's your rule. 2011 [[You committed the crime.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u396	Mr Myrch... [[Yes, I'm listening, Mr. Marshal Terlecki.]] ...I draw your attention for the first time to the fact that you are interfering with the House's deliberations. Sit down there... [[Voice from the room: How?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u397	And get your hands out of your pocket.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u398	...and get your hands out of your pocket.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u399	Take your hands out of your pocket.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u400	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u401	This is an evidence of the culture of the Civic Platform Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u402	...the rule of the Seym I call you to order. [[You're welcome.]] [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: This official, please call to order, Mr Marshal, not Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u403	Come in, I'll show you more...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u404	Commissioner, I did not react when the opposition Members insulted the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u405	...photos of public performances with signs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u406	...I didn't react then and I won't react... [[But this is an official, not an MP.]] ...when you hear a bitter answer for you. [[Please pay attention to the Member who is standing there. That's where the Member is standing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u407	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you to count your time, which is to add time, because I haven't had time to say anything yet. So these public appearances of your celebrities - from 2015 I gave two examples, I still have photos, I can show the next - this is the characteristics of your time and your reactions. [[Don't lift a finger at me.]] In 2011, the Independence March, 80 German citizens, Antifa, supported by Political Criticals, are taking action against the patriotic independence march. This is your time, and you still have the nerve to speak on this? [[What did you do with it?]] Member, do you address me by accusing me of lying? [[Grab a phalanx and march with ONR.]] Listen to yourself. Listen to yourself. [[Where were you then? What did you do with it?]] And then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u408	Member, please do not shout and disturb.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u409	...Mr Lassota. Mr President, I would like that and you need to explain yourself, you need to get out of this in public... [[Please?]] ...explain. You've got it in your blood, you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u410	Mrs Skowrońska. [[Mr. Marshal doesn't respond to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u411	What do you mean? What's in our blood? What's in my blood... [[Are you asking the Members questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u412	Mrs Kochan, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u413	...Mr Lassot? Come here and tell me. [[Voice from the room: Hate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u414	Mrs Kochan, I return... [[But we're asking you, not you asking us.]] ...you are aware that you are disturbing the Sejm's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u415	What does another Member have in mind when he says: Poland is browning your governments? Ladies and gentlemen... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: What does Jarosław Kaczyński mean by scumbags?]] ...really think about it. You've made so much foolishness, such a dose of hate... [[You guys think about it.]] ... You showed yesterday and today, and the day before yesterday anyway. You show it in the media every day in public appearances. You pretend to be concerned that in Poland these phenomena, which must of course be condemned, and are condemned, must be punished, and punished, will be punished, but... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: They are not condemned.]] [[I want you to reach out to our interpellations for what you've been texting back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u416	Mrs Wielichowska, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u417	...you need such a picture because you have nothing to say to Poles, that supposedly under the rule of law and justice there is a consent to such behaviour, that you can say: Poland is browning. [[Without a word, it's supposed to fit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what insults, what disgraceful words? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: This is true.]] Shame on you and disgrace on you. Disgraceful! Shame on your entire club for saying that and for saying, "You've got it in your blood." [[Applause]] [[Answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u418	Minister, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, you are referring to these criminal ideologies with these words. You're doing it. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: What about treacherous faces?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please think about this. [[Exactly.]] Maybe you wanted to create such a picture yesterday and today, because there is an important visit to Poland. Maybe that's what this is about. Why not last May and today? [[Anything specific, Minister?]] Maybe that's what's exposing you. [[Don't wave a finger at me, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u420	Mrs Kochan, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u421	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to hear any questions. [[Just give me one specific one, please.]] Human Rights Team. What a load of bullshit you've been saying for days. This band... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: What nonsense?]] Listen to me. It was a three-man team in the department of control at the MMA. He's been transferred with his entire staff to another department, to the Department of Analysis and Migration, and he's moving on. [[Work results. What are the effects of work?]] And what effect did he have at that time you were defending, at that time when he was in another department? [[You untied him. Don't lie to me.]] It's okay. [[Where's the spokesperson for equal treatment? What's he doing?]] Don't yell, Madame, it's bad for beauty, really. [[Just one thing in particular.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u422	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u423	Don't yell. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u424	You're not at the market. I've told you this before.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u425	That's better, that's better, that's much better. Smile is better for you. [[What's this?]] [[Is everything okay, by the way?]] But by the way, ladies and gentlemen, what's the point of all this? What's all this for? The answer is one - here. Here's the answer, here's the answer - in the Poles. [[Propaganda.]] So look at this and think whether it's worth plotting all this stupidity or lying. You're lying. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: You are lying.]] [[I want you to collect all the information from the police and the D.A.'s office, and then we'll talk.]] 89% Poles think - I read - that Poland is a country where you live safely. It doesn't come out of nowhere. It comes from good police work, funding it, good command, supervision. Yeah, that's what it's made of. [[Because of Mr. Błaszczak.]] It is also taken from the fact that all such events you are talking about are appropriate, firm, quick, immediate reactions. [[Instant? After two months.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u426	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u427	2013 - your minister Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz was in Białystok, he went there. This is my constituency. Okay. We're coming for you. [[Sentences are.]] 2013 Today is the year 2018. They're still coming. They didn't make it. The investigation is underway. How'd that work out? [[What did you do after the 11th of November march?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u428	Mrs Wielichowska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u429	And after the TVN images were released in the Superviser... [[What have you done, Minister?]] ... There are seven arrests, charges are filed. Quickly, definitely, specifically. Is there a reaction? There's a reaction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Since yesterday. 2 months.]] 95% Poles believe that they live safely in their place of residence. [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal.]] Look, look, think. [[Time. You're wasting your time, Marshal.]] And last number - 72% Poles judge Polish Police well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u430	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u431	Who's right? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: You are a disgrace, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u432	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u433	On the other hand, we are fighting against all forms of violations of the law and we are going to fight clearly. [[Shame on you.]] [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Minister, come down. You're a disgrace to this House.]] The state will never give permission under the rule of law and justice as you tell us or as you gave us. [[Your permission is your responsibility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u434	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u435	One more thing, why are you defending the ubeks against the debubecism bill? [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: You will be off this platform by now.]] [[You are co-responsible for neofascism in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u436	Minister, please... We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws (prints Nos 1424 and 2029). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee. Are you an MP? There it is. Mr President, we have a delay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I have the honour to present a report to the joint committees on the draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms, print No 1424. The draft law as a governmental submission entered the Sejm on 22 March 2017 and after first reading was addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. At the first meeting, the committees appointed an emergency subcommittee for the examination of draft Print Act No. 1424, which I had the honour of chairing. Following four meetings of the committee, many hours of work involving a very numerous social party and taking into account its many proposals for amendments to the draft law, the subcommittee presented a report on 21 November 2017 with the attached draft law. The joint committees at three meetings, including a large number of social parties, submitted a report on 10 January 2018 with a positive opinion by the joint committees on the draft law, following a number of amendments adopted on 10 January 2018. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I would like to ask the High House to adopt a bill annexed to the draft report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u438	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jan Duda on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I understand you've already introduced... [[You're gonna stay in that podium.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms in the government submission, print No 1424. A few words about the project. The main objective of the project is to implement the provisions of Directive 2001/ 18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment. The draft law also implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union establishing a register of the location of possible crops and making them available to the public. The second, equally important goal of the project is to introduce detailed legal solutions, which will result in the exclusion of all GMO crops from Polish agriculture. Art. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This objective will be achieved by: a request by the competent Minister for the Environment to exclude the GMO concerned from cultivation in the Republic of Poland in accordance with Directive 2001/18/EC; a regulation by the Council of Ministers on the prohibition of cultivation of the GMO concerned throughout the country; a request for inclusion in a register to which, in addition to the identity data of the entity and the subject-matter of the application, the consent of all property owners within a 30 km radius of the external borders of the parcel on which the cultivation of the GMO would be proposed, documentary evidence that the cultivation of the GMO will not adversely affect the safety of the environment, and opinions accepting the intention of cultivation issued by the municipality council, the district council and the sejmik of the voivodship. The area in which GMO cultivation is planned shall not be less than 30 km from established forms of nature conservation. After an in-depth and substantive analysis of these safeguards, it must be concluded that they are absolutely sufficient and provide a guarantee that the wording of the Article. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Direct control of the register of possible crops will be exercised by citizens, local authorities of all levels, as well as by social organisations, and the introduction of the crop register will be the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The draft law also introduces provisions on legal liability in breach of the rules. Thus, the project provides for a fine and a sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 12 years depending on the severity of the offence committed. The project sets out exactly the violations and threatening penalties. As a club, we fully agree with the solutions presented in the bill. The proposal also provides for the financial implications of the arrangements put in place and they are appropriate to the responsibilities of the administration and control services. The work in committees and subcommittees, which I had the honour of chairing, has been ongoing since 6 April 2017. Social organisations, farmers and environmentalists have been particularly involved in all committee and subcommittee meetings. The work was difficult, the project aroused a lot of emotions. The social side presented proposals for amendments, which were largely taken into account in the text of the draft attached to the subcommittee report and subsequently by the committees. That's, among other things. resignation from crop zones, increase of the area concerned by obtaining consent, from 10 to 30 km and the obligation to obtain opinions also from the district government and the sejm of the voivodship. At every stage of the work, the voice of the public was listened to. In the election campaign and in our programme we made a promise that we would release Poland from GMOs. This is the first but very serious step. High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes and fully supports the draft law submitted by the Commission amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u440	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are opening another edition of the story about the release of Poland from GMOs. Mr President, I would like to remind you that in 2015 we announced to the European Union our reservation that Poland does not wish to grow GMOs as a further consequence of its decision years ago. That's where the problem begins. Why have we been trying to push this bill, this simple bill for so long? The judgment of the European Court tells us to create a crop register - a crop register that will actually be empty, and everyone knows that it will be empty because Poland has never agreed and continues to refuse to grow GMOs. Since it was not possible until 2015 to prohibit this directly, we made different records so that this would not be possible. In 2015, the government of the Platform declared its contribution to the European Union and banned GMO cultivation in Poland, but we lack a register that is required in the legal order. We wanted to introduce this register in 2015 with an amendment to the GMO Act. Then no one other than Minister Szyszko's entire environment, which at the moment is so difficult to convince that it is not dangerous, he has seduced, seduced and explained to him that the introduction of the register is the introduction of GMOs into Poland. That's why you've had such difficulties with the subcommittee. Because people don't believe. Why don't they believe? I'll tell you why. What happened that Mr Szyszko - I use Mr Szyszko's favourite phrase, then the Minister, now a Member - suddenly can read the directives with understanding? The directives that made him make a register. Suddenly it's possible to create a register. Before that it was the introduction of GMOs into Poland. I was in the O.R. personally when Minister Szyszko did it. Suddenly he can read and enter the register is not the introduction of GMOs into Poland. Of course, the case concerns the creation of a crop register, which contains information. It is about getting to know this possibility - which is not going to happen, because there is a general ban. Minister Szyszko was very happy to stress this - I recommend the transcripts from the subcommittee, where he heroically defended Poland against GMOs, said that the register is a problem because it introduces GMOs into Poland. It's not being introduced at the moment, there's security at the moment. And here's the problem, is that the people who came to the subcommittee session don't believe, because whoever is sowing is collecting it. And this is where he collected. It was necessary to withdraw from the zones because the zones were an invention, an invention only so as not to do what we did, what we tried to do in that term, and what Minister Szyszko blocked - i.e. to create an empty register that does not serve anything, is only to have it in order of law. And then there's the next question. What had to happen to accept the ordinary amendments of the social side, which really do not change much, but give a sense of security to the social side, adjustments about distance, about insurance, many others, so that - people struggled for it over the years, wanted this record, and could not be written - now put? I'll remind you of the Dantesque scenes. There are people in this room who have had to fight so that the Minister will agree to withdraw from the zones. They weren't needed at all - they weren't needed. They were needed by the minister Szyszko for an image show in Television Trwam, that he fights GMOs, fights with windmills that he created himself. It's the truth about the GMO bill. Moreover, if you are listening to me, there will now be an amendment to the Feed Act in which the PiS state agrees to introduce GMO feed by 2020. What happened? [[You're wrong.]] The PiS government, the PiS government, sir. Here, from this speaker Minister Szyszko accused us of introducing GMOs and poisoning Poles. Where's Minister Szyszko? Why isn't he in this room? This is his project. Let him explain to people why he's gonna support the extension of the GMO memorandum in feed. Why does he make a register, and before that it was the destruction of Poles? It's a lie, cheating, that's all. And that's the truth. It is true about how he builds his position, the man who lies to society, exposes society, and then doesn't have the courage to come to committee meetings and say, no, I made a mistake, we're making a register. Already in 2015, we banned GMO cultivation. That is not what the Minister said - that is not what the Minister of this part of society said. But you were fighting to make it 30 kilometers, or to make it 10 miles, not 30 kilometers. What does it matter? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u442	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, I would like to comment on the previous statement. Let us not tear our garments apart, let us see how it will be, a few changes in this House have been, not necessarily this 2025, this period may be much shorter, including our law, which will introduce a national protein index. It's gonna be okay. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms, in short GMOs. The history of the project, as well as the problem that the project aims at, is long and turbulent. GMO-related issues are regulated in Poland by a law which entered into force in 2001. In parallel, the European Union introduced a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on GMOs, inter alia. as regards the notification, registration of crops and information to the public on GMO crops. Poland should transpose the provisions of the EU Directive by 1 May 2004 at the latest on the date of Poland's accession to the European Union. Unfortunately, in Poland the problem has remained unresolved for almost 14 years. This does not mean that nothing happened during this period. And yes, in 2013, the European Commission filed a complaint against Poland in connection with the failure to establish an obligation to notify the competent Polish authorities of the location of GMO crops, the absence of establishing a register of the location of these crops and the lack of publication of information on the location of GMO crops. In 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in which it ruled that Poland had failed to fulfil its obligations under the Directive. And so we come to the justification for the development of this project, which also did not go uncomplicated. I would like to draw the Members' attention to the fact that the project under examination was made to the Sejm in March last year in a completely different form than the present one. The proposed possibility of creating GMO cultivation zones was unacceptable for Polish society and thanks to strong opposition it was possible to change harmful rules. I would like to stress that Poland is and should remain a GMO-free country. During the work of the Joint Committees, I have tabled several amendments, six of which have been adopted. The most important of them is a 10-fold increase in the buffer zone, from 3 to 30 km. Thank you very much for adopting these amendments. I read this as a step in the right direction, first of all because the members of the governing party may slowly see that they do not have a monopoly on good ideas and solutions, that it is through joint work that we are able to prepare a good law. In order to fully protect the territory of our country from GMO cultivation, a few more amendments are needed. The most important issue is the obligation of the person who reports on the intention to grow GMOs to cover civil liability for any damage that may arise in connection with the cultivation of GMOs. Currently, there is no responsible person to bear the financial consequences of contamination of cultivation adjacent to GMO cultivation, pollution of the environment, damage to human and animal health. A farmer whose cultivation would have been contaminated would have been left alone with the problem. An equally important amendment is to shorten the period for which the possible entry of GMO cultivation into the GMO Register will be made. It is now 5 years. Together with the social side, we propose that this should be 2 years, which is justified not only by the fact that a shorter period will increase the supervision of the GMO register, but also by 2 years is the maximum period during which, according to agrotechnical terms, cultivation of the same plant on the same ground is rational. The other amendments I would like to make to the hands of the marshal, hoping for their positive acceptance by your Members. We depend on their adoption to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u444	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u445	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This very controversial project for the Polish public results from Poland's commitment to comply with the obligation under Directive 2001/18/EC of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing another Council Directive. Thus, the project assumes the possibility of cultivation of GMOs in Poland. According to the proposed regulations, the Council of Ministers may prohibit the cultivation of a GMO, but the prohibition cannot be imposed solely on grounds relating to public policy objectives and must not undermine the risk assessment and the principles of free circulation of GMO products. Poles show very high distrust for food produced on the basis of the achievements of genetic engineering, including: insufficient research on risk assessment, potential health and environmental risks, as well as socio-economic and political problems accompanying genetic modification of crops and food. According to the 2017 European Network of Researchers for Social and Environmental Responsibility, signed by more than 60 researchers from different countries, new genetic modification techniques are highly susceptible to unintended effects and carry with them a particular risk of ecological imbalances. One of the most important problems that arise when discussing GMOs is the issue of monopolizing the sale of GMOs by large companies, which monopolize seed production, are a threat to traditional and organic farming. Unlike ordinary seeds, these GMOs can be patented, they are more expensive than traditional ones, and their producer may prohibit traditional practices of preserving seeds from previous seasons, which forces farmers to buy again. These attempts to dominate the world seed market by biotechnology companies do not safeguard biodiversity. Research on genetically modified plants is not advanced enough to prove their harmlessness, it is still impossible to assess their long-term impact on the environment and on our health. The social side, i.e. the Polish citizens, is concerned about the situation in which the spontaneous screening of GMOs will contaminate traditional crops. In plants that pollinate cross-fertilising, there may be a transmission of GMOs. It has been noted that in countries where, for example, they were grown. Transgenic rape, it has grown far beyond these crops. It was also proven that genes from modified rape were found in related plants, e.g. in a cabbage or a radish. GMO plants are very expansive, and often as a result of their cultivation, they appear resistant to superweed pesticides. The amendments proposed by the social side, which assume the introduction of compulsory civil liability insurance for farmers seeking to grow GMOs in Poland, in accordance with the principle: the polluter pays - such are insurances, for example. in France, they would be an additional security and should therefore be re-examined in detail. At the moment, the project does not regulate who will bear the costs of compensation for the contamination of GMOs of traditional crops and at the same time introduces rules for the cultivation of these crops in Poland. As a result of the amendments made during work in committees, the application for the inclusion of GMO cultivation in the GMO Register should be accompanied inter alia. written statements by owners and users of perpetual real estate located up to 30 km from the border of the agricultural land on which GMO cultivation is to be carried out, confirming that they do not object to the intention to set up a GMO cultivation site. This is one of the important safeguards for which the social side has fought and which significantly improves the quality of this project. The refusal to enter GMO cultivation into the crop register shall take place in the absence of acceptance by the Minister of Agriculture, in the opinion of the Municipality Council, the District Council or the Sejm of the Province, and in the absence of a guarantee that the cultivation to be carried out will not adversely affect the safety of the environment or human health. Nevertheless, the project needs further amendments, such as: shortening the period for which GMO cultivation is entered in the register, insurance, clarification of the procedure and verification of the documentation which may decide to refuse entry. That's why... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...we are waiting for your amendments to be adopted and we will also consider supporting the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u446	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party on the GMO law, I am really wondering what language to use - whether the language that Mr Duda used today, a quite substantive language, talking about the very writing of the various articles of this law, or the language that your fellow Members used in the previous term, when, with regard to the much better solutions that were proposed, thought and preached from this speaker, this is the introduction of GMOs into Poland through the back door. [[Applause]] That's what happened back then. These Members today have been converted into more substantive Members, the Minister has been converted into more substantive Members, and today the PiS plays the role of this group, which is against GMOs, although it introduces more liberal provisions for GMO crops than those introduced in the previous term. E.g. This provision contained in the law, which is fundamental, that Poland is a GMO-free country, is one that does not give away the whole truth, because as far as cultivation is concerned, we can eventually come to this position. There is no GMO cultivation in Poland - at least I hope - and it was not. However, we cannot say this about GMO food in Poland, because today the production of food of animal origin is dominated by feed, genetically modified soybean, which in huge quantities enters Poland and into not less than it entered before or last year, and this program, which we created a few years ago, to become independent of genetically modified soybeans and develop national sources of protein, does not celebrate any significant triumphs and significantly does not develop beyond what we have done with it, and there is still a long way to talk about Poland being freed entirely from the import of genetically modified soybeans in this respect. Of course, GMO is not only a matter of Poland, it is a matter of the European Commission, but it is also a matter of actually trade in seeds, trade in plant protection products, because there is a company in the world which, on the one hand, has almost a monopoly on genetically modified plants, which are resistant to certain herbicides, and on the other hand, has practically a monopoly on these herbicides, and in fact, there is a struggle for who will collect profits on this market. As for the harmfulness of GMO food, we will not discuss this. There are no studies that significantly support its harmfulness, nor are there studies that indicate that it is harmless food. It's gonna take a lot of time for all of this. Nevertheless, we can see very clearly that the opinion of the Polish society, but also of the societies of many other countries, is clear: people do not want to buy food produced by these methods, and especially do not want to consume this food directly as plant products. So, if this is the opinion, we should not allow such food to be offered for sale in Poland regardless of our assessment of harmfulness or not of GMOs. Whether we are consistent in this as a country, as the European Union, time will show, because perhaps those environments that are stronger will put pressure on officials in the country and outside and such records will appear. Besides, as we will look at the original proposal made by, as it turns out today, slightly deceiving Poland and Poles in this respect Minister Szyszka, we will notice that if it were not for the social side - and for this I also thank her on behalf of the PSL club - these records would be very liberal. It was the social side that forced on the policies of the governing coalition or the ruling party such specific provisions that would at least reduce GMO cultivation in Poland. But if we were using this language again, which was used by Members in the previous term, then indeed, one record says: Poland free from GMOs, and then there are records about what really needs to be done so that genetically modified plants can be grown in Poland. So there's a difference between thinking between the passwords that were preached and the truth that was reflected in this project. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Indeed, this project needs to be further worked on, these amendments need to be analysed, we need to think about what to seal so that GMO cultivation in Poland does not exist. In fact, the voice of the Polish People's Party will depend on the final shape of this project. Today, however, it is clear that the fight against GMOs was invented for the electoral campaign. PiS first scared all Poles, then pretended to prove that he would defend it, and practice already during this term shows that it was all created for the sole purpose of the election campaign. And the records that were presented in the original project proved it very strongly. You can't fool people, you can't use people for political purposes by scaring them and cheating them, you can't lie. It's a lesson for the future. Our position will ultimately be expressed in the vote depending on what is really at the end of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u448	Three Members have joined the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. As the first Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u449	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms raises a great public interest, which is natural because increasing the level of safety in terms of human health and the environment is extremely important. People, Poles, do not want to buy modified products, that is just the reality. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the full participation of the social side, in particular farmers and environmental organisations, was guaranteed at the legislative stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u450	Thank you. The question is asked by Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u451	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, At the beginning, I would like to greet Catherine Duda and Margaret Duda very warmly, the daughter and wife of Mr John Duda, who worked as chairman in very difficult conditions. along with my humble person over the bill. We've been working for nine months, and I think we've met the expectations of all sides. And to the Minister, I ask one short question: Do you think that the 30 km distance worked fully protects against the spread of pollen of genetically modified plants? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u452	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask either the rapporteur or the Minister who will bear the costs of eliminating possible pollution of neighbouring fields. However, if GMO cultivation and cultivation were to occur in some way, it would contaminate a large area - a large or small area - who would bear these costs? Of course, we can imagine that civil proceedings could be used to seek the elimination of these effects on the farmer concerned. But wouldn't it be wiser to make sure that a person who wants to grow GMOs for some reason simply needs to be insured against damage? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Mazurek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by referring to the words of Mrs Niedziela, because they relate to the questions that have been asked, unfortunately the Member is not in the Chamber. So, like she said about the absence of Minister Jan Szyszko, so I can say the same. Remember where the password came from: Poland free of GMOs. 12 years ago, the Government of Law and Justice and Minister Szyszko raised this issue. It was the time when for eight years the Minister looked at his hands, raised the subject, showed how important it was for all Poles, how worth taking care of it, how important it is to remind them. Perhaps if not for those actions which were taken by the Members of the Law and Justice still in opposition, we would be in a different situation today, so it must be appreciated, appreciated. I understand the emotions that were in your speech, but I understand that there is a tendency to stress names. One of the journalists with the same name as I picked up, asked President Schetyna if every statement had to start with: Kaczyński and others. [[Cupcake.]] And Szysko, right. Then I can also say that the name of Szyczka has been mentioned here many times. I understand that this is some kind of programming void, but I hope it's just a minor condition. I am glad that so many Members look at GMOs as they did 12 years ago when they spoke about Poland's need to be free of GMOs. And we are countering these tendencies that are global, and we are able to resist it as Poles, but this is because of this determination, even in difficult times of opposition, when these things were raised. This is very important and very cordial to all ladies and gentlemen for this. Thank you also for this wide access given to the social side. The social side could not only say what she said here, with some contempt, at one of the stations, but in all possible places. And here it was full of openness. As far as these 30 km are concerned, of course the whole project is designed to implement European law, while at the same time protecting Poles from genetically modified food and, in particular, GMO crops. From a study that relates to how much bees carry pollen, how this pollen is ventilated, it appears that this is a sufficient distance. Based on the research we have, I can tell we're sure of that. As regards the issues raised by insurance, the Member himself said that claims can be sought under civil procedure, but we are speaking purely theoretically about redress, because we assume that the law will effectively implement the Law and Justice programme in order for Poland to actually be a GMO-free country. Here and society, and Members have read these provisions with great insight and we find that all the changes that have been made have been going in this direction in order to implement this important, very strong... She did not mention that when the government's position was first adopted that Poland was to be a GMO-free country, despite the very strong lobby that worked in this area, they were powerful companies. And I would like to remind Mr PSL of some letters in WikiLeaks, which showed how it looked like there was a risk that GMOs would be introduced into Poland. It's worth checking on the Internet. On the Internet nothing is lost, so you can check it out and see that such elements were. That is why I thank you all the more, also as a father, that my son has a chance to live in a country free from GMOs, and I can say this on behalf of all fathers. This is important not only for the protection of biodiversity, but also for the human being who lives and has the right in this biodiversity environment. I hope so, like... We try to inform at the Ministry of Environment, there is also a special spot that informs us to buy products marked with a mark: without GMOs. There are such products, they are tested. And today there will not be such a situation as it happened a few years ago that the producer of herbicide, which is popular in some places, marked the product that it is biodegradable, and nothing happened in Poland. In France, they paid a million dollars. At a time when there was such a fight against GMOs, it turned out that it can be written that this product is biodegradable in Poland, and nothing happened. Are you okay? It's done. We need to protect biodiversity because we have the most beautiful, the largest in Europe, and this is also worth saying with GMOs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u456	Thank you very much. The draftsman of the committee will speak now, right? Please, Mr Jan Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs Szyszko, who presented the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, said that Minister Szyszko, Minister Szyszko - Minister Szyszko is the whole problem. I don't think so. Here the Civic Platform had a lot of time to introduce the provisions of the directive into the legal order of Poland. We are in 2018, it could have been done by 2015. It's just an explanation. Minister Szyszko did not participate in the work of the subcommittee, that is not true. I don't know where you got it, you figured it out, but you didn't work. He didn't make any adjustments either. The amendment on the departure from the original government project of crop zones was my amendment and I introduced it. On the other hand, as regards questions, Mr Biernat asked whether the social side had a guaranteed participation in the work or whether it had participated in the work. Yes. I'm going to talk about this one incident, when there was a problem with entering the Sejm, there was a restriction on the entrance of the social side to the Sejm. We postponed, we postponed the committee's meeting so that the social side could participate in it, because the social side is really an added value in every commission's work over every bill. If I may, I would still like to reply to Mr Sachajka. Mr President, the elimination of pollution. We say that entry in the register can only happen if we prove that it will not have a negative impact on the environment. If it doesn't have a negative impact on the environment, it doesn't have pollution elimination because it doesn't, because it just doesn't. Mr Gosievski also asked a question here, but he asked the Minister. I think the Minister has answered this question comprehensively. Dear High Izbo! Since I am by the voice, I would like to thank all those who worked on this really difficult bill, a really difficult project: the social side, all Members and representatives of the Ministry who participated in the work, especially the Minister of Sweden-Lewandowski, because he was the minister who participated in every meeting of the subcommittee and then the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u458	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Jarosław Sachajko. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mr President, here you misunderstood this pollution. The contamination is the cultivation of GMOs in non-GM crops. It's always a possibility. We are talking about the fact that we are trying to write a law so that this law limits to the maximum, directly to the impossibility, cultivation of GMOs. But you don't write the bill at once and now. We want to make several different security features, among others. That's the kind of insurance that's supposed to be insurance in case something slips through. This is another form of security. I think this is a form of security as important as those 30 km, for which I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u460	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of the draft law is to introduce in our legislation regulations on the notification and registration of GMO crops. This will echo the European Commission's complaint of 16 September 2013 against Poland. This register is intended to ensure safety for human health and the environment. In the course of the work of the subcommittee and the committee responsible, a major change has been made to the project increasing from 3 km to 30 km the authorised distance of cultivation of GMOs from the area for which the form of conservation was established, and at the same time the area from which all landowners cannot object to cultivation of GMOs in order to make it possible. This is very important because it will enable the article to be implemented effectively. 49a. 1. Saying that the territory of the Republic of Poland is established by a GMO-free zone. I have a question: Is it possible in practice to separate areas in Poland with the probability of meeting the conditions for GMO cultivation? The second point I would like to raise is the issue of controlling GMO crops. Until now, when the primary control of the use of MON 810 maize seed has been carried out, it is also the seed of maize, rape and soya, no irregularities have been found. Will the scope of the checks planned in the future ensure the effectiveness of protecting our territory from GMO cultivation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u462	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws (Print No 2191). I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws is to implement EU capital market regulations in the national legal order, in particular the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in financial instruments, so-called. MiFID II. In particular, the proposal envisages, first, the introduction of a new category of trading in financial instruments, so-called next to the regulated market and alternative trading system. an organised trading platform. The new trading venue category will cover all unregulated types of financial instrument trading organisations so that all trading of financial instruments will take place in regulated legal systems and will be fully transparent. Secondly, the creation of a new market category, known as the market for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as part of an alternative generation scheme. The softer criteria for admission to trading in such a market and the less formal information obligations for listed companies are intended to increase the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to liquid markets in the context of their capital needs. Thirdly, regulation of rules for investment firms to apply algorithmic trading techniques. Such trade shall be deemed to be the acquisition or disposal of financial instruments by means of a computer algorithm without or limited to human participation. Such trade has so far been unregulated. The introduction of regulation on supervision of carrying out such activities is aimed at adapting the Polish legal order to developing modern transactional technologies and at the same time ensuring that algorithmic trade will not create market distortions and will not be used for abuse. Fourthly, clarification of the rules for investment firms to provide investment advisory services. They will be required to make a clear declaration as to whether they provide an investment advisory service in a dependent or independent manner and, where they provide such a service in an independent manner, will not be able to collect remuneration or any other benefit from third parties, in particular issuers or suppliers of investment products, in order to prevent conflicts of interest. The next item is the inclusion of structured deposits offered by banks and investment firms with full requirements of MiFID, among others. the obligation to examine the liability of such a product for the investor concerned and to provide investors with a wide range of information about such a product. This solution is intended to counter such situations that those interested only in the establishment of a banking deposit unconsciously purchased a high-risk investment product at the same time. The next item is the mandate of the Minister for Development and Finance to set the maximum level of fees for the management of investment funds and to introduce a new category of unit with no distribution costs. The investment fund management fees set by the companies are among the highest in the European Union. At the same time, the potential of national investment funds as an intermediary in providing capital to the real economy is not fully exploited. Investors aware of the costs borne by their assets, because they chose other forms of investment in capital, e.g. bank deposits. At the same time, it requires that a similar solution has been introduced in Spain and has contributed to an increase in the interest of investment fund investors. Another issue is to strengthen the supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission, in accordance with the Directive implemented, by introducing new tools in the form of e.g. the possibility to demand the cessation of certain infringements and to increase the maximum level of administrative fines that KNF may impose on brokerage houses and companies operating a regulated market and an alternative trading system. This penalty will be raised from 1 million to the values provided for in the Directive, i.e. 20,750,000. zł. The draft law submitted to the High House has been the subject of extensive long-term consultation with the capital market environment, including the opinion of the supervisory authority, the Financial Supervision Commission. High Izbo! On behalf of the government, I request the support of the bill submitted. I would like to express my conviction that the adoption of this law will contribute to raising investor confidence in the domestic capital market, reducing the costs borne by participants in this market, increasing the share of the capital market in financing the real economy, including small and medium-sized enterprises, reducing the risk of future distortions in financial instruments markets and increasing the effectiveness of the capital market. Finally, in view of the benefits of implementing the proposed provisions, I would also ask the High House to proceed as effectively as possible on the draft law submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u464	Thank you very much, thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jan Szewczak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u465	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to show you what this document looks like that we're gonna be dealing with. This is one bill already in three parts. Our mother, the European Union, is so generous. As far as this 2191 print is concerned, it's part one. And I think he's got 1,600 pages, maybe. I wasn't counting, 'cause I'm up to 100 so far. [[Voice from the room: Over 1 000.]] [[Voice from the room: 1300.]] 1,300, right? I'm very glad you've counted so precisely. I think maybe there are other attachments, so maybe I'm doing more. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our specialty, that in the Polish Parliament it may actually be hours, as we hear, foaming and slandering the Polish state, and accusing of extortionous fascism. On the other hand, where there really is money and - you can say - even a revolution in the financial system, especially in the trading of financial instruments, there is, as you can see, a gallery full of journalists. There are a lot of us here too, and there are really revolutionary things here, because of course we are already after MiFID I regulations, and now we have MiFID II, we will have MiFIR and part of the regulation that will replace this former MiFID. Of course, it can be said that the European Union and the European Commission always set high targets, because we have heard that this is supposed to be the implementation of legislation that protects us from the crisis, better regulates, creates equal opportunities, ensures greater security in the market of participants, etc., etc. All this, you can say, praise God. I hope this faith has come true, so to speak. However, the scale of the changes is enormous in the market for investment funds, banks, financial institutions. It is so serious that bankers across Europe have had quite a lot of trouble with this regulation. She's delayed, and in many countries she's not fully introduced. If memory doesn't confuse me, 11 or 12 countries have already implemented. Minister Skiba will probably know better, he always stays here in the battle square when we have this heavy orca. Indeed, the problem is fundamental to the extent that banking institutions, stock exchange operators, in order to prepare for this type of legislation in Europe, have already spent over $2 billion to just prepare for this regulation, so how important it will be to us as well. I would like to say that, with the entry into force of this MiFID II directive, which we will work on first in the subcommittee and then in the finance committee, fund managers and other market participants, please, will have to complete a form that will provide 65 information within 15 minutes of each transaction. This is unbelievable in my opinion. I can't imagine. I am not surprised that only a dozen countries have moved this directive into their system, MiFID II. It is said that the UK, German supervisory authorities, at the last minute, even gave some agreement to suspend these three clearing houses in these countries, after all well organised, to implement some of the clauses of this directive, these provisions. So let's see how this issue goes with us. It is undoubtedly that this trade in financial instruments is already going into some aberration, because that is what Minister Skiba was talking about, which is also this algorithmic possibility, so computers are playing with it, they determine it and determine it. It's beyond human. And this, of course, as with machines, can sometimes go the wrong way, but what we wish for. So there's some monstrous work ahead of us Members of the Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions and then the Finance Committee. It seems, however, that life is much more complicated and the quantity of this paper weighed in kilograms actually, you can say, does not guarantee full security and the fact that we will certainly avoid another economic crisis in the world. 'Cause it's supposed to be that if it's patted, it'll be okay, it won't be a problem. Surely many of our doubts will still appear during the work and subcommittees and the finance committee. This is another regulation in a relatively short time. This 2008 crisis, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As you can see, not everyone has learned how to approach these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u466	Thank you, sir. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. I understand that some Members of the PiS would like the financial market not to be regulated at all, especially that there should be no regulation on the SKOKs. It's best if the SKOKs are out of custody... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ... The Financial Supervision Authority. You have managed to defend the SKOK-i against this for many years. [[What's the matter with you two?]] For this the Polish taxpayer paid PLN 5 billion and will pay much, much more. We should consider whether these directives are good or bad. As the Civic Platform ruled, and the PiS was in opposition, you shouted that because we delayed the implementation of the MiFID I directive, a lot of misfortunes happened to people and entrepreneurs. Today, the PiS representative praised the countries that are reluctant or reluctant to implement this directive. You said the same thing about MGO, your propaganda is well known. The implementation of this directive is intended to strengthen the competitiveness and efficiency of the financial market and is intended primarily to ensure the safety of its participants. The detailed solutions, the mechanisms to increase security, you spoke to Minister Skiba and I will not repeat them. It welcomes the justification that the government does not provide for solutions that go beyond EU requirements. I'm sure at the committee's work, we'll make sure that's how it's gonna be. The Civic Platform Club believes that this law should go to the Public Finance Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz, 15, who I do not see in the Chamber, will now speak. Therefore, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will briefly present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. This bill, which we are debating today, is a very comprehensive document, a colleague has already shown it, with a large range of regulations, very detailed and precise. In addition to the draft law, the government proposes, this is an integral part, nine implementing regulations, and the basic regulations concern as many as 12 laws, I will not mention which, in fact, most financial laws - the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, on Income Tax, both PIT and CIT, Banking Law, Energy Law, Insolvency Laws, Trade Exchanges and others. The project generally implements EU law, including capital market directives and regulations, markets in financial instruments as so-called. MiFID II and MFIIR. Both the Directive and the Regulation together provide a legal framework governing requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets, information-sharing service providers and third country companies providing investment services or carrying out investment activities in the European Union. There was such a sceptical statement about this by a colleague from Law and Justice, but it must be pointed out that it is a matter of common solutions for the Union as a whole, for all countries and we cannot actually separate this. MiFID II contains regulations on business permits, the acquisition of a holding, the exercise of the freedom of establishment and the provision of services, the conditions of investment firms, the powers of supervisors, and the system of penalties. On the other hand, the MFIIR Regulation sets out requirements for public disclosure of transparency data, removes barriers to non-discriminatory access to clearing systems, adopts or sets out detailed supervisory actions in the field of financial instruments. Both the directive and the regulation have just been incorporated into the Polish legal system through the same draft law that the government presented to us. The project contains very numerous definitions and details of financial instruments, alternative trading system, organised trading platform, algorithmic trading, definition of supplier, eligible counterparty, etc. All these definitions specify and at the same time give the possibility of adopting certain specific regulations. Through these precise definitions, the adoption of detailed regulation, the project introduces new trading practices, regulates all market structures, all trading venues and securities settlement systems, thus improving transparency of trading for all market participants. It also sets out in very detail the terms of reference, the responsibilities of the Financial Supervision Commission, which here has administrative, supervisory, control, and penalties and sanctions for those who do not comply with the adopted regulations. The proposed solutions will have financial implications for the public finance sector on both the revenue and expenditure side. Indeed, it is worth noting the fact that the Minister stressed this, the very high activity of many institutions on the subject of implementing law. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring, working on this project in committees in parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u470	Thank you very much. The question is asked only by Jerzy Gosiewski, who is written to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u471	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Following the words of Janusz Szewczak, I would like to ask the Minister which European countries, particularly the large ones, have fully implemented the Financial Instruments Directive in the legal order. Should we not wait until this directive is fully implemented in large countries, particularly in Germany and France, which take particular care of their interests? Poland should also take care of its interests so that the financial crisis will never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u472	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u473	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that question. So far, 16 countries have implemented this directive. In such a situation as Poland is the remaining group, i.e. these works are carried out. I understand that there was a question, which countries are these 16 countries. Maybe I'll trade you one at a time in alphabetical order. These are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, which is the two largest countries, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. So these biggest countries, Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, have implemented. Among the large countries that have not implemented are Poland and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u474	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u475	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present a statement on the first reading of the Government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, print No 2191. The proposal concerns the necessary changes to the national legal order following the entry into force of European capital market regulations and will allow the application of EU rules on markets in financial instruments, i.e. MiFID II and MiFIR. The new solutions are designed to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of financial markets in Poland and the European Union and to increase the safety of participants. As the projectors point out in the explanatory memorandum, these provisions will improve transparency of trading for market participants in capital instruments and increase transparency of trading in non-equity markets. Investment firms providing investment consulting services will be required, among others. to provide information on whether they provide services in an independent manner and to disclose the costs of their advice and explain the basis for the advice provided. The proposed solutions will reduce the amount of fixed remuneration for the management of open investment funds and specialised open investment funds. In addition, there will be a limitation on the possibility of receiving or collecting remuneration, commissions or any monetary or non-monetary advantage from third parties - especially from issuers or suppliers of products - by companies providing independent investment advice services and portfolio management services. However, the bill raises doubts in several points. Firstly, as noted by the Confederation of Leviathan, the provisions in question are very vague and introduce a solution whereby portfolio management companies consisting of one or more financial instruments are fully aligned with investment firms for this type of activity. This is not the case under MiFID II and Regulation 2017/565. Secondly, the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets indicates that certain provisions have not been agreed and, more importantly, do not constitute implementation of any provisions of Community law. For example, the existing internal control mechanisms responsible for examining the compliance of internal processes with the rules of law report to the authorities of the company and there is no need to introduce additional control mechanisms. In view of the above, the Modern is in favour of further work on this project. We hope that during the committee work our doubts will be resolved and that the comments made by entrepreneurs during the public consultation of this project will be taken into account. This is also a condition for our final support for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u476	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws, contained in print No 2191, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 20 February 2018. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 57th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in... [[There it is.]] I didn't make it. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Under the monument of Tomasz Kolbe in Ciechanów there were ceremonies related to the 155th anniversary of the January Uprising. The January Uprising, which broke out on 22 January 1863 in the Kingdom of Poland and on 1 February 1863 in Lithuania, lasted until the autumn of 1864. It was the biggest Polish national uprising. It was the nature of the guerrilla war, in which about 1200 battles and fights were fought. Tomasz Kolbe, who died heroically at Rydzew, is the most famous hero in the Ciechanov region. Tomasz Kolbe was the commander of the insurgent unit operating on the border of the districts of Mławski, Plonski and Przasny. He was attacked at Rydzew by a well-armed Russian army of 600 footmen and 250 Cossacks. After an uneven struggle, Thomas Kolbe, refusing to be held captive, took his own life with the last bullet. The Russian military commander, Colonel Walowev, ordered Kolby's body to be placed on a wagon and buried in the first village he met. His steadfast attitude and heroic death even gained the respect of the enemy, and Rydzewo began to be called the Płock Thermopylae. The January Uprising left a lasting trace in the history of the Municipality of Regimin. Many residents participated in the organization of the uprising and fights. In the battle of Rydzew on August 8, 1863, 18-year-old Jan Mościcki, uncle of the President of the Republic of Poland died. The father of the future president, Valentine, the owner of Klic, set up a group of hives at his own expense. The uprising was supported by the landowners and the rural people. He participated in it, among others. Franciszek Błoniecki, one of the longest-living veterans of the uprising. The battle fought with the Russians in Zenbok on 8 September 1863 was also a part of Zygmunt Padlewski's unit. About 100 insurgents died in it. Half the village burned down and built a parsonage. An extremely important event for the inhabitants of the commune was the introduction of an expropriation reform in 1864 and the administrative reform of 1867 resulted in the creation of a large commune with its registered office in Regimina. The insurgents of January, veterans who lived to free Poland in 1918, were surrounded by the authorities of that time by extraordinary honor and respect. They were like a patriot and a hero to young people back then. Their struggle and sacrifice did not go to waste. With their efforts, their bravery was born in 1918 free Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u478	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the figure of Jerzy Gross, who died on Wednesday 17 January 2018. Jerzy Gros was born on 21 January 1945 in Chorzów. He was a Polish athlete with a specialty of long distancers and marathoners. Twice he set the Polish record in the marathon: 2 hours 15 minutes 43 seconds - 3 May 1975 in the German Karl-Marx-Stadt and 2 hours 13 minutes 5 seconds - 7 December 1975 in the Japanese Fukuoke. These performances contributed to the fact that the industry monthly Track & Field News placed it among the top 10 marathons in the world that season. Jerzy Gros has lived in Knurowo-Szczygłowice for many years. It was the runners in this city who drew much inspiration from him and set an example of exemplary conduct. He gave valuable tips to runners and trainers who also come from Knurów: Mark Lewczuk, Mieczysław Dzierejka, Piotr Bielinski, Czesław Nowak, Zbigniew Kołodziejczyk and many others that cannot be mentioned now. He was always a person full of energy, a willingness to help and a good advice. With great passion and commitment he always talked about his sports successes. Jerzy Gros represented the clubs Baildon Katowice, Silesia Wrocław, Start Katowice and Górnik Zabrze. For his work he was awarded, among others. The Brown Cross of Merit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, as usual, writes in writing? No, he's proposing this time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 22 January we celebrated the 155th anniversary of the outbreak of the January Uprising, the largest Polish independence break. The January Uprising was launched by the National Provisional Government Manifesto announced on 22 January 1863. The Manifesto announced the establishment of the Polish state and the granting of equal rights to all citizens, as well as the enmity of peasants. The Manifesto called for the fight against the Russian Empire of all inhabitants of the pre-departmental Republic. The Polish Kingdom, as well as Lithuania, Belarus and part of Ukraine were included in the scope of the uprising. The forces on both sides were drastically uneven. On the side of the insurgents fought poorly armed and untrained volunteers without sufficient equipment. They fought a guerrilla battle in difficult conditions against a large, about 100 thousand, perfectly armed Russian army. Nevertheless, the uprising lasted as long as 1.5 years, until the end of the summer of 1863. No one would expect that the uprising would last so long, but thanks to the will to fight for free Poland and the stubbornness and sacrifice of the insurgents of the fight it still lasted. Eventually, the uprising was suppressed. It cost the lives of tens of thousands of patriots. Doesn't mean it was futile. Someone once wrote: The January Uprising was a foolish act; the January Uprising was a holy act. It is not known if Poland would have gained independence in 1918 if it had not been for the January Uprising. The Uprising awakened in Poles the feeling of belonging to the Polish nation, the desire for a free and independent homeland. Marshal Józef Piłsudski, son of the insurgent, said the following words in 1924 before the anniversary of the January Uprising: The tradition of this powerful effort of the nation will never disappear. And if the tragic moment comes again, the great idea of 1863 will rise from the wide graves of insurgents and wake the Poles with the words "go and do." The words of Marshal Piłsudski are perhaps pathetic, but for one and a half centuries since the uprising we have often proved their truth when we were again forced to fight for free Poland. Let's remember the heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u482	Thank you. The statement will now be made by Dariusz Starzycki, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 27 January 2018 will be the first anniversary of the death of the deceased at the age of 93 Capt. Stanisław Nowakowski, President of the World Union of Soldiers of the National Army Jaworzno Branch. This well-deserved soldier of the Armed Forces of the National Underground State of Poland operating in Jaworzno, social activist, organizer and animator of the life of the union members of the kombatant circles associated with the AK, initiator and organizer of celebrations, anniversaries and events of a patriotic nature commemorating the military act of fighting for freedom of the period of World War II. He was the author of numerous projects of plates resembling shed blood in defense of his homeland. The culmination of his activities in commemorating memorial sites was the idea of completing the construction of the Independence Monument in Jaworzno, which was unveiled at the feast of independence on 11 November 2008. For your work, Mr. Captain. Stanisław Nowakowski has been honoured and honored many times. He received among others. Silver and Golden Cross of Merit, National Army Cross, Veteran's award for independence fights, Silver Medal of Merit for Defense of the Country, diploma of recognition for social activity for the World Union of National Army Soldiers. In 2016, he was promoted to the rank of captain. On his initiative, in its development, a website dedicated to the National Army in Jaworzno was created. He was a person known and valued by the inhabitants of Jaworzna, including young people with whom he met in schools for years and who he passed on knowledge about the history of the Polish Underground State. The captain was involved in the life of the city above average, with all his heart. Therefore, the City Council of Jaworzno on 28 May 2009 granted him an honorary diploma for the merits of the city of Jaworzna. As a longtime independence activist, although he was 93 years old, he continued to engage in local government affairs and participated in celebrations and public and local celebrations. He participated in school competitions, theatre animations, art exhibitions related to the Polish Underground State. Mr. Captain. Stanisław Nowakowski was a strong and devoted man in his homeland. Mr. President, Captain. I met Stanisław Nowakowski in 2003. It was with him that I learned the history of the National Army in Jaworzno, not from books, but the living one, when we met every once in a while in various places of Jaworzna, during the celebrations commemorating various events of World War II, under a monument or a plaque commemorating events of that time. He was tireless in passing on the history of Jaworzna and Poland, the Home Army and the Polish Underground State. He personally prepared historical papers on this subject, wanting to give this story to the younger people of our city, so that they would not forget and remember. Today, let us remember this extraordinary man who, despite his 93 years to the end, actively participated in all events commemorating these wonderful heroes and Polish history. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-26-sejm-57-2.u484	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 57th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 58th session of the Sejm, convened on 6, 7 and 8 February 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 04]]
