ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Schreiber, Mr Olszówka, Mr Andruszkiewicz and Ms Zielińska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Piotr Olszówka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 66th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. I would like to inform you that following the expiry of the mandate of Mr Konrad Głębocki on the basis of the article. I have decided to replace Mr Mariusz Trepka with the electoral code, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to come closer to the presidential table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Mariusz Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u2	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mr Mariusz Trepka has taken a vow of marriage. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Law on State Protection Services, - amending the excise duty law and the Customs law, - to amend the Water Law Act and certain other laws. And also: - amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 2716, 2720, 2727 and 2696. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into land ownership rights, - amending the Animal Identification and Registration Act, - amending certain laws to reduce the social contributions of natural persons engaged in less-scale economic activities, - amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees, - amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. And also: - ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018. These are printers 2729, 2733, 2747, 2748, 2750, 2759, 2749 and 2752 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws, print no. 2731. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put the proposal to the vote to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests.]] Formal proposals have been made by Members. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. There you go. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 (3) I request that the sitting of the Sejm be adjourned. I move that during this time a medical consilium be convened and an opinion be delivered. [[Applause]] by prominent laryngologists and ophthalmologists, whether a person who sees nothing, hears nothing, can hold a sitting of the Sejm. I understand you can't see me. I understand that you may not see Mr Kaczyński, [[Joy in the Chamber]] But Mr Zembaczyński from a distance of 3 m cannot be overlooked. It was a deliberate act. What Mr. Marshal did at the National Assembly, refusing to object to the protocol, is, in our view, a violation of the law. That's why we filed a report to the D.A.'s office that your marshal suspected a crime. This clearly shows how the PiS state treats the principles of parliamentarians. You proved, first of all, that you are the undertakers of the free Sejm. Finally, Mr. Marshal, after what you've done, I declare you to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] the last person in this room who has the right to draw the attention of the Members... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u5	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's time for action. The Polish PiS politicians are responsible for threatening to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. To avoid this scenario, you need a few steps. It's a citizen's resolution that speaks of them. [[Members Jerzy Meysztowicz and Paulina Hennig-Kloska show the table with the text of the resolution]] [[Voice from the room: Too small letters.]] That is why we are requesting a recess, convening the Senior Convention and introducing a resolution on the agenda of the citizens' agenda. In the hands of PiS politicians, there are all the tools for our country to avoid accusing the Court of Justice of violating the standards of law so that it avoids the loss of a lion's share of EU funds. This is the time and test for the power camp, for the politicians of PiS, whether you place your party's interests above, whether you place the interests of our common country above, or whether you prefer Poland to remain in the center of a united Europe, or whether you want Poland to slowly turn into a Russian outskirts. This is the time for your actions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u7	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, in case you haven't noticed...]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska puts the board on the presidial table]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the moment you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because, please, such objects can be introduced and shown with the consent of the marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's what the rules are talking about, so I'd ask you not to overuse the rules. [[Mr. Marshal, the counterclaim.]] With regard to the proposal, please, to the second statement: this is not a formal proposal, I cannot accept it as a formal proposal. This issue was discussed at the Senior Convention meeting, the club's request was forwarded to the European Union's Committee on Affairs so that the committee formally presented its opinion on the subject. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] So if there was no justification, I would consider it a request for a break, but a justification. indicates that it does not concern the agenda. On the other hand, as far as the first proposal is concerned, apart from the fact that it is behind it, so to speak, an impertinent statement, I inform you that I cannot treat this proposal as formal either, because it concerns another meeting, the National Assembly, which is organised on the basis of a special, adopted by the Sejm and the Senate some time ago, the rules of the National Assembly and this is related to all National Assemblyes. In addition, Mr Meysztowicz refers to an incident that occurred at the National Assembly and which cannot take place as far as the National Assembly is concerned. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm state that reservations can be raised for discussion to the point at which the discussion is held. There is no discussion at the National Assembly, so this proposal is pointless. [[Applause]] [[For protocol.]] [[Such a little man.]] This also applies to the statement of objections to the minutes, so, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, the proposal is pointless and I would ask you not to interfere with the Sejm's meetings in this way and not to disinform the public. [[You're disturbing democracy.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The prosecution will take care of this.]] We'll proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws, print no. 2731, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 228 voted against 192 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Extraordinary Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print no. 2732. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda for this report. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the electoral code law, print 2660 and 2732, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 192, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the report of the committee on the draft law on the Polish Economic Institute. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government bill on the Polish Economic Institute, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 230 against 191 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions: - in the first reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws, - information on the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2017 and on the activities of the Ombudsman. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports: - the draft act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security, - the draft resolutions on the establishment of the patrons of 2019 contained in prints Nos 2530, 2531, 2532, 2533 and 2538. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the draft regulation adopted by the European Commission laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, together with draft implementing regulations and the resulting consequences for Poland, which was proposed by the Modern Posel Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 10.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Economics and Development together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 4:30 p.m., - Economy and Development - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17. Today will also be the meeting of the teams: - Parliamentary Group on equality and social justice - at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Polish-Japanese... [[Moving in the hall, applause, ringing bell]] [[Bravo! Bravo, Marek.]] ... Economic Cooperation and Parliamentary Group on development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 11, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Ski Infrastructure Development - hour 13, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Oncology and Parliamentary Group for public health - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 15, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u9	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on State Protection Services (prints No. 2692 and 2716). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on State Protection Services, print No 2692. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 2 July 2018. Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at its meeting on 5 July this year. carried out the first reading and examined the draft law amending the Law on State Protection Services. At its meeting, the Commission adopted two legislative amendments which suggested the Legislative Office of the Sejm and which ensured greater precision and clarity of the proposed legislation. The Commission, with 15 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, adopted a draft amendment to the Act, together with the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and after considering this draft law on 5 July, brings the following: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u11	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law amending the Law on the State Protection Service, which is the subject of today's work, essentially addresses two issues. The first refers to a change in the way in which the allowance limit is set for the remuneration of State Protection Officers. This amendment is designed to make the system of allowances more flexible, which are one of the elements of the officers' salary system, by setting a total limit on the amount of allowances. At present, the limitation for an allowance justified by specific qualifications, conditions or place of service is 20% the basic salary, in turn the maximum amount of the special allowance shall be 50% of that salary. In the amendment of the Act, it is proposed to set a total limit of 75% of the two additives mentioned. basic salary. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this will help to shape the remuneration of the State Protection Service officers in a manner that is appropriate to the tasks and competences they carry out. Another issue that the amendment deals with is the financial situation of the State Protection Service officers and the extension of the period for which the special allowance is fixed, from the current 6 months to the year. In addition, the draft law explicitly defines the situation of officials only admitted or transferred to the State Security Service from other services. In their case, the special allowance would be granted for the first time from the start of the service in the State Protection Service until the nearest 31 July and thereafter according to the general rule for each subsequent year. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue that is regulated in the draft law is Article. The 390th Law on the State Protection Service, which takes into account the increase in the upper limits of the financial resources allocated to the operation of the State Protection Service, since the current amount determined for a period of 10 years, was calculated according to indicators in force in 2017. The provisions of the Article. 2 projects are adapted: they adapt the current system of additives to the changes made. A special allowance is foreseen for a transitional period from 1 September 2018 to 31 July 2019 to ensure a peaceful and undistorted transition to the target system. The project provides for the fixing of allowances only in the event of changes in their amount. Ladies and gentlemen! The State Protection Service, in a situation in which its earnings and financial conditions are not the highest in today's labour market, should be able to flexibly shape the service allowances so as to take account of the transfer of an officer, often several hundred kilometres from the place of residence, and to direct him to carry out his duties, as well as to be able to pay attention to the special qualifications acquired from the State Protection Service officers, often very well-educated young people, and thus to form allowances, so that appropriate incentives give rise to the decision to work in the State Protection Service, hence the Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill in question. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Law on State Protection Services. The amendment concerns two issues. The first is a change in the method of calculating the allowance, and the second is an increase in the limit on the expenditure of the State budget for the State Protection Service in the next 10 years. Protection of the government will be even more expensive, because the law provides for an increase in expenditure on the State Protection Service by PLN 330 million over the next 10 years. Of course, there will be years in which these expenditures will be even more increased, e.g. 2019 will be the year in which the SOP budget will increase by as much as 20%. I would like to remind you that the law, which introduced this expenditure rule and provided for some kind of estimate of expenditure, was adopted by the Sejm only six months ago, because the SOP Act came from December 2017, and therefore the increase of the budget of the State Security Service today just six months after the adoption of the previous law indicates that something did not work out for you, that that law was simply underdeveloped. It is worth recalling the announcements made by you in that debate. Then, when preparing the SOP Act, then Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński spoke about the fact that the new formation will receive new competences, will carry out operational and cognitive activities, will protect more facilities, that more officers will be employed in it. At that time, we warned in the debate that in a situation where all the services have a clear view of human resources problems, such changes, the decommissioning of the BOR and the equiping of the new service with additional competences would simply end in disaster. Unfortunately, this is because today in the State Security Service we have problems with the wave of leaving officers, problems with recruitment. As far as the protection of the objects that you spoke of in this debate is concerned, the protection of government buildings in Warsaw has been transferred to the police. The real symbol of this law is that until now the Office of Government Protection has been responsible for protecting the premises of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and now the police being distracted from other tasks are responsible for the protection. This shows that the implementation of the assumptions that you have adopted by creating the SOP law has simply failed. Unfortunately, the answer to this situation is cannibalization of other services. The policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration leads to an unprecedented distinction between the powers of police officers and the status of police officers, Border Guards, State Fire Department and SOP officers. Let me remind you that in June you announced a new regulation that had already raised the salaries of SOP officers. Today, these allowances will be a kind of increase, but above all the way in which these allowances are calculated will certainly be better for SOP officers than it has been so far. In our opinion, it's designed to attract officers to the SOP from other uniforms. Minister, it really is a problem, if from small cells - which are dealing with e.g. two persons shall be taken to work with a number of officers. That's the problem, because these officers have no one to replace them with. Border Guard officers or police officers are responsible for universal security. Those officers transferred to the SOP will only be responsible for the government's security. It's not right. In addition, it is not only a weakening of universal security, but it is unfortunately the division of officers on the worse and better - the worse ones, i.e. those who work in other services, the better ones, that is, those who protect the government. There would be nothing wrong with raising wages, but, please, think of all the services, just as it has been all these years, when all the uniformed services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been treated in the same way. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, i.e. for the trial of this law, because it entered the Sejm on 28 June. Let me remind you that the police protest began earlier on June 26th. In my opinion, proceding a law that increases the budget of only one formation, but completely does not refer to the difficult situation of the officers of the other formations supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs, in the situation of the ongoing protest of uniformed services, is either a provocation or a complete disregard of the social partners. I am convinced, Minister, that sooner or later you will pay for such arrogance, complete disregard for the social partners and pressing this law now by the Sejm day by day during the ongoing protest of the other services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u15	Thank you very much. Now Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a brief - because the law is quite short - a statement of the Kukiz club15 concerning the amendment of the Law on the State Protection Service. This is a bill that actually, as it was here mentioned, not so long ago we accepted in the Seym with various reservations, also at a rather rapid pace. With reservations that in a moment we will need a lot of amendments in connection with it, for example because of the adoption of a whole series or a package of other laws. But this bill was passed. Indeed, this amendment, as has already been emphasized here twice, brings financial benefits to those working in the State Protection Service, in the new creation, because it actually makes the system of additives one of the elements of the civil servants' salary system more flexible and provides greater financial stability for the State Protection Service officers by introducing an annual deadline in place of the current six-month period. These are certainly changes received positively by this service and by its servants. But our role is also to think about how it's done and why it's done right now. Because, indeed, it is impossible to disagree that if we adopted a large law that created a new service in place of the Office for Government Protection, it would be necessary to foresee costs, all the more so as to mention it, and in committee, and in the plenary room it was said that this change would generate certain costs. These costs were clearly underestimated. They may have been underestimated because no one thought it would be necessary to encourage people to come to this new service in some way. And now half of poverty, if this financial incentive were to draw new people from the outside, feeding this service to new people, training them and building them. On the other hand, the problem is that it seems that we may have to deal with such a solution by underappreciating or unequal treatment of other services will result in the transition from those services to the State Protection Service, which would be clearly unfavorable. I think that also Law and Justice and the Minister understand that such a trend would be undesirable and dangerous. So the question is: How will this be secured, and is the government even thinking about securing this kind of flow at the moment, so that we don't have a personal deficit in other services, because there will be worse conditions? That's one thing. Secondly, it nevertheless generates costs on the part of the state budget. I am, as am my group, such a terrible literal supporter of the sustainable budget. Here I am different from Prime Minister Morawiecki, and probably from most of you, probably from most Polish politicians, who are rather accustomed to budget based on deficit. So right now, if you want to spend that kind of money, I'm interested in where it's coming from. Is it the addition of money that will appear as a form of budget deficit, or is it the reduction of money that may be spent on other services or other activities of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, or is it really a rational transfer of some money from such spheres in which the State may not be involved at the moment and in which these expenses could be cut? And that is also a very important answer for us. Of course, we strongly support that those who are involved in protecting Poles in general, but also the highest government officials, pay decent money, so that they want to come to this service, so that they can serve in the so-called. holy peace, they did not think whether they were enough for the first or not, because who like who, but us, Poles, should know that we should not save for the protection of the highest government officials, because it always ends very badly and tragically. But we are interested in answers to these specific questions - and questions about financial issues, and questions about possible, possibly negative, consequences associated with the movement of people from other formations, for example from the police. Because indeed the problem of protest and the doubts of the police mom. For example, the bill the Senate filed on police pensions is still in the freezer and is not considered by the Sejm. Here, too, the question is why we are not dealing with this law at all, which was a law desirable by the police and which is currently in the Seym, even a print number is given. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u17	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on State Protection Services, print No. 2692. There is a repeat of a situation where, in a rather short time after the introduction of the main law, we need to change it and we need to amend it. It has already been noted here that, indeed, these financial considerations, which were not included in the main law, should be there and it would not have to be amended. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that the State does not spoil the State Protection Service officers. These salaries do not encourage you to join the service. We know that there's staff problems as well. In general, the situation of the officers of both the State Security Service and the police - and these have recently taken up protest action - is unbelievable. The budget situation is what it is, but it must be taken into account that these officers are responsible for our security and if we want high-level officers and morale and those who want to devote themselves to this service should be well rewarded. We therefore have no objections. as to the fact that certain new rules are being laid down. Perhaps it would be better to set a higher wage for everyone, not just in the form of extras. I just hope... The biggest reservations we have are that there will be very much discretion when it comes to granting these additives. We don't know what the grounds for granting such an allowance will be for a good cause. The range is also huge, because from 20% to 74% basic salary. This is actually quite a discrepancy. And the question is this: Who will be responsible for this, and who will eventually admit it, determine the height of these allowances? I hope that, above all, we will take into account the threat to the performance of the function. Otherwise, I think we can judge an officer of the State Security Service who rides with one of the ministers, or the one who protects the Polish diplomatic institution in Kabul, for example. It is known that these threats are completely different, and therefore it seems that allowances for those who put their health at a much higher rate, sometimes life... The point is to make them pay better. It also raises controversy, and the question arises as to whether other servants will not feel a little offended by the fact that one service has been chosen, which will have a higher salary. What about the others? We are in favour of adopting this bill. We have some doubts, but I hope that the rules, which are likely to follow and determine exactly what these allowances will be for, will indeed be well prepared and clear conditions on the basis of which such an officer will receive higher allowances. In general, we also have a question that came up here. Namely, as regards those funds which are earmarked for the State Protection Service of more than PLN 3 billion over the next 10 years, there is no clarification as to what percentage of these funds will be earmarked for remuneration. That hasn't been clarified either. I know that it is difficult to define in the Act, but it would be good to adopt a rule that the funds that are intended will be such and not others for remuneration, and above all for these functional allowances. In general, the Modern will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u19	The questions have been raised by ladies and gentlemen. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question. Question time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This law, which once again increases the powers of the State Security Service officers, unfortunately divides uniformed staff into better ones and worse ones. I have the following question, Minister: What is the difference between the work of uniformed officers who are protesting today on salary increases, i.e. Police, firefighters, Customs and Treasure Service, who also put their lives and health at risk every day, taking care of the safety of Poles, from the work of the National Security Service officers, to whom the government's rapid legislative path introduces increases? When will the government take care of the demands of the uniformed services protesting today? Can they count on proposed increases, salary increases of PLN 650 in 2018? And if the Minister isn't afraid of the situation that other uniformed personnel will be leaving the service and moving on to [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Security? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u21	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski... Excuse me, Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law we are talking about concerns one formation, the State Protection Service. On the other hand, the question arises as to what happened to the other services. We can't just pretend like nothing's going on. A nationwide protest campaign is underway: policemen, officers of the Prison Service, State Fire Department and Customs and Carving Service are protesting. Protestants also demand increases and improvements in their working conditions. I would like to ask the Minister whether other formations, like the State Protection Service, can count on favourable solutions, e.g. related to improvements in working conditions, and can they count on increases? If so, at what time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u23	Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I actually have two questions. What's the hurry? The Act enters into force the day after the announcement. The State Protection Service shall be a uniform, uniformed and armed formation carrying out tasks relating to the protection of persons and objects and the recognition of criminals against them. So it protects, it can be summarized, the rulers. Is that why it is distinguished only and only this part of the service, while the police are currently striking and protesting, or because: man is not lonely - someone is watching him, as said by Jerzy Lec, or: business, power, machine - these things do not see man, they only need mass, as Maria Dąbrowska said? Will the other uniforms get the same raises as the one [[♪ The bell ♪]] Protecting the government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u25	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would ask for a written reply on what is the intention and what is the schedule of the Ministry's work at the moment to actually respond to the demands of the policemen who are on strike, and whether this is the first step to raise the salary in uniform services, and finally how long do you plan to meet the demands of the police at the moment. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, of course, expenditure, we are spending more and more money on the State Protection Service, but as we sometimes see how this money is spent, it is important to consider whether some savings should also be made. Because as I can see, how many people who aren't entitled to protection from the State Security Service are smashed up in limos and protected by officers... The best example is the humanitarian aid agent for Mrs Beata Kempa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know why you drive a limo... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[It's because he likes to ride, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are responsible for the uniformed services in this government, and you are probably aware, or at least you should realise that this requires a stable system, a system for all uniformed services. As you can see, these actions that PiS is taking are actually very chaotic, ad hoc, with the jump: something needs to be done, the problem needs to be dealt with, and the bill is done, and it is being updated in a moment. I have the following question for the Minister. Can you afford, or can you, the PiS afford to finally deal with the system-ordered operation of uniformed services? Because, of course, Minister Macierewicz was building himself a Territorial Defence Army, and today you are slowly withdrawing from it, you are building a State Protection Service. I don't know if you're scared or if you really can afford to rise above such extremely ad hoc business. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u29	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum, you wrote nicely that this draft amendment, but also the rapid date of entry into force of these changes, or these changes do not preclude the principles of the democratic rule of law, in particular because the law improves the situation of participants in legal transactions. And I want to ask you about other participants in this legal transaction. I'm thinking soldiers, cops, border officers. I would like to ask you what this planned and manually controlled differentiation of services is for, directly dismembering different formations, sharing - and this has already been mentioned here - on better and worse officers. I want to know - I think it's not just me - how you planned similar financial solutions for other uniformed services. Please inform me in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u31	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the entry into force of the SOP Act, the police took over from this service its statutory task of protecting government buildings. I would therefore like to ask if there is any compensation for the costs of these activities between the services? Is it because the police are carrying out the tasks you have entrusted to the State Protection Service today, that the police will receive any additional funds in return for doing this task for another service? Because it is done at the expense of officers who were responsible for universal security, not VIP security, officers who should be on Polish streets. Once again, I would like to stress that we will support all the activities related to increases in all uniformed officers, while we believe that it is unacceptable to bring some officers to a situation where they are treated better and others to a disadvantage. That kind of sharing, Minister, is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u33	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Recently, I have had the opportunity to talk to the State Security Officers, so to speak in human terms about the situation after the amendment of the law. What are the conclusions? First of all, the officers were waiting for the bill, but they're disappointed. As they told me, the manor and the rabbit's friends stayed, and these physical specialists today are leaving the service massly, the security professionals are leaving. What's more, there's a new wave coming out. And it's not the enthusiasm resulting from the fact that there's a new law, it's just because they just feel deceived and hurt. We're talking about specialists and professionals. And for today there are some bad trends: suddenly after 3 months it turns out that you can become a driver from the beginning of the service instead of after 5 years, so the training cycle starts to shorten and there are very real risks when it comes to the quality of this work. That's what I'm paying attention to. And, of course, salaries must be stabilized in all uniformed services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u35	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Minister, I'd like to ask you if you're so humanly embarrassed that you're funding a raise for the State Security Service at Police Day, and you're skipping out on all the police officers. Are you ashamed that the State Security Service receives a raise of PLN 1000 and all other uniformed officers receive about PLN 100? It's just a shame. This cannot be divided into those who protect the government and those who protect the citizens. Minister, what are you gonna tell the police officers when you're celebrating Police Day with them? We really expect you to provide reliable information - I, too, in writing - about when other services: Police, Fire Department, Prison Service and other uniformed services will receive increases of at least PLN 1000, as well as the State Protection Service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u37	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that we are dealing with a parliamentary project, not a government project, so it is worth considering. That's one thing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We know what it looks like.]] Secondly, the discussion that took place here, the club speeches, the questions show that you are talking about everything, but not about the draft law, because the bill is very short and concerns specific, rather narrow cases, and not everything that you are talking about. I would also like to point out that not all services that are mentioned by your Members are services supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, e.g. The Prison Service is supervised not by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance. So, please don't assign us too much power here that we don't have. Plus, it's about all the cashmere stories about what's supposed to happen in the service. I would ask you to reflect on the wording that Mr Wójcik uses about the cannibalism of one service towards another. It just sounds interestingly publicistic, but of course it has nothing to do with reality and it's obvious and it's not true, and it's exaggeration. The parliamentary bill concerns specific provisions of the law in force, and the fact that it is being amended shortly after the adoption of the new Law on the State Protection Service indicates this - and this is always the case - that conclusions are drawn from the practice of applying rules, the consequences of which cannot be fully foreseen in detail before they are implemented. So here's the reaction to the first experience. I don't think there's any reason to question this project. In addition, Members of the opposition also, and at the committee meeting, and today, they note the good aspects of these solutions. I just want to mention them briefly. Establishment of the total amount of the special allowance - and there are two additions saved in the Act, as you well know - with a limit of 75% which cannot be crossed, will make this wage element more flexible and motivating in the ministry. This will certainly serve to improve the quality of functioning of the State Protection Service. So this is going to be good, not bad. The second solution, namely that this allowance will be granted for a period of one year and not half, as is the case so far, as in the current law, will serve to stabilise the service. This is what the State Security Officers expect. We felt that this was the right thing to do and that it was the right thing to do. Therefore, this is also a step in the right direction. This is what officers expect and will certainly stabilise the situation as regards this element of legal solutions in the State Protection Service. As regards the third element which appears in this amendment, i.e. the amendment of the provisions on the amount of quotas in accordance with the expenditure rule, it was also explained at the committee meeting. Firstly, it follows that the base amount has been changed. It was raised by a regulation of the Council of Ministers from 2 May 2018 from 3.31 to 3.99, i.e. by 0.68 percentage points - a point, let's call it that - from 3.31 to 3.99. [[A thousand zlotys.]] [[A thousand zlotys.]] That's the average salary ratio. The base amount is the basis for calculating the average salary and this results in changes in these amounts... [[A thousand zlotys.]] ...in the projected expenditure limits for 10 years, and we have explained this to you, too, this is necessary in accordance with the expenditure rule, but this does not mean an automatic increase to that amount in the budget of this service for individual years. So much for the bill, that's what he's talking about. I'm sure it's going the right way, it's making pay more flexible, it's going to increase motivation, it's stabilizing wages. I'm sure he'll serve well. Here there was a completely incomprehensible doubt - it was Mr Meysztowicz who raised, although not only Mr Meysztowicz, concerning the alleged freedom to grant this special allowance. Well, you have to read the law, you know it, because it was recently, as you recall, passed. After all, in the current article. 162. 13 is regulated. This is specified in detail in the Regulation, i.e. the implementing act. I quote: The Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall determine, by regulation, the type and amount of the allowance justified by the specific qualifications, conditions or place of service, taking into account the conditions for granting the allowance and the circumstances justifying its increase, reduction and withdrawal. So that's of course... The act gives a delegation, refers to an implementing act. An element of discretion must always remain in this case, otherwise the Head of Service would not have a tool in the form of granting for a good job, a good service to an increased supplement or receiving or reducing it, which has a incentive function. This cannot be regulated in detail, very rigidly, but the rules, rules, criteria will, of course, be set out in the implementing act, in the regulation. Now I have to refer to some of the false accusations that have arisen. It's kind of above the bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, and especially from the Civic Platform, speaking on this issue, I will remind you that thanks to the Modernization Act, and also through other measures, even before this law, designated for the uniformed services of the MSWiA - and in the law, and beyond this law, but in the state budget - we raise the salaries of all uniformed services. And so in 3 years, I would like you to realise this, in real terms, over 3 years, between December 2015, and that first period when we took over as Law and Justice responsibility for the state, and January 2019, this is in a few months, nominally 4 years, but really 3, there is an average increase in salaries in all MMA services by PLN 800. We raised them by PLN 202 since the beginning of 2016, even before the modernization law entered into force. 253 PLN is the first tranche of the increase from the modernization law. The next is foreseen, and is guaranteed for this purpose the financial means from 1 January 2019 - up to the total amount of the Modernization Act 609 PLN. This was done by PLN 150 million in this year's budget for increases for officers with the lowest wages and entering the service from 1 May - I will remind you, for police officers they were groups from II to VI, for other services respectively - for the lowest paid, the lowest earners. In addition, police officers from the Capital Police Command received the first increase in the capital supplement since 2009, it is at the moment 480 PLN without 10 gr per officer. You didn't raise it, the Civic Platform and the PSL over the course of eight years of their governments didn't introduce any increases in uniform services. Except for one incident raise in the last eight years, there was nothing. And then you didn't pick it up. Enough, the union didn't protest back then. Today, on the other hand, I do, with the situation I am referring to, with the rise in wages. This isn't the height of dreams, I'm sure. I know that perfectly well, and I agree with officers who think that we need to think about what's next, what's next, how to raise these salaries. That, of course, is what police officers, firefighters, all officers deserve. Except we've got eight years of neglect and these neglects we have to make up for now. If the PO-PSL government were to increase at about the same pace as the Government of Law and Justice, wages, we would have had a completely different situation, we would have been in a different place. It would be twice as much as 800 zł, which is 1600, plus 800 of the time for which we are responsible, and we would have 2400 zł growth. Mr President, Commissioner, you have not done this, so please do not really raise your voice and press charges, because this is simply unlawful and even ridiculous, even embarrassing. You resent it, but you didn't. The draft Modernization Act for the following years, when the time of the first, also the Government of Law and Justice, of 12 January 2007 ended, prepared by us, by the Club of Law and Justice, under my direction, submitted in the Seym, did not even get the procession. Your Marshal of the Sejm hasn't even put this on the table. And there were planned further actions, increases, purchases, investments, renovations, what is in the current modernisation programme. Even, I repeat, he didn't get this procession project. And today you have the courage, you have the audacity to speak on this subject at all, to criticize it when the increases - I repeat, certainly not enough, you must certainly think about what next, what in the years to come, after the act of modernization - are implemented. The average average salary increases by PLN 800 over the three years. We also improve our service conditions. New commands are being built, precincts are being renovated, equipment purchases take place, equipment, weapons, means of transport. As for the rolling stock itself for the Police, we are planning to, and it is already realized, to buy enough that we will replace 1/3 of the transport fleet. 21 600 cars have police, about 7,000 cars, maybe over 7,000 cars. We'll buy new cars. These groceries are already being made. In the fire department too, in the other departments as well. Don't tell me there's no offer for the other services. The Modernization Act applies to all MMA uniform services, not one, selected. We all try to treat each other the same way because they all deserve it. You will also note that the base amount ratio has always been slightly differentiated in terms of the various services: the police, the State Fire Department, the Government Protection Office before, now the State Protection Service and the Border Guard. It's not a new situation that there's a difference. Today we are raising the base amount index for the State Protection Service. This bill that we are discussing today is in some sense the consequence of the fact that this indicator has been raised. Tto will really serve this service well. And we take care of all the servants and we'll take care of them. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have yet to address this issue of cannibalism. This alleged cannibalism is that we have finally created the possibility to also go to the Security Service of your officers from other services. So far, this service, as a result of her history, has been hermetic, closed. The rules did not allow for transitions, e.g. A border guard officer, often very much needed, or a police officer to the government security office. Only a new officer could be admitted to this formation, could not be moved to it, could not be transferred from one service to another. Today, thanks to this law that we have introduced, it is finally possible to go through in relations between all services. This, however, does not cause any exodus from other services to the State Security Service and will not cause, because, ladies and gentlemen, above all, it is a small service, it has about 2 thousand. Officers today, and in the end, he's going to have $3,000. This is written in this law, which we are updating to a small extent today. So far, my fellow Members, the State Security Service of other services has passed to 39 people. Is that an exodus? Is that cannibalism? Just think about what you're saying. And it is good that the necessary specialists pass through, while passing through, they are heading in different directions. I would like to assure you that from the State Security Service, Mrs Skowrońska, they also move to other services. This flow is going both ways. It will not destroy the staff of the Service for the Protection of your other services, because it is not enough for her to do so. And it's a good thing the specialists you need can go there. At the same time, this process is controlled, because in a situation where there is no agreement between the commanders of both departments, the one from which the officer passes, and the one to which he passes, the minister decides. I'm responsible for this. It's all going through my desk. I assure you that I am analyzing each case in very detail, individually, and if this would have a negative effect on the functioning of a given cell, especially a small one, in another service, I do not agree. On the other hand, if this does not affect actions in a negative way, and it is about some support and sharing the specialists of one service with another, but without harming the latter, then, of course, such a decision is positive and will be taken. So, ladies and gentlemen, please really look at this objectively and not attack for political reasons. Finally, it's a matter of building security. It's not like the police are now taking over the duties of the State Security Service. I've also heard of some uncreated numbers of officers sent from the police to the SOP. It's all not true. A bill that is now being amended - I repeat, [[♪ The bell ♪]] only to this small extent - provides for the possibility of protecting certain objects from either the State Security Service or the Police. And it's all in accordance with this bill. And last but not least, because I have run out of time - ladies and gentlemen, this is not the government protection service, as you said. We even changed the name because it was too narrow. There was the Office for Government Protection, and this service protects not only the government, but also the most important people in the country, such as the president, the most important objects serving the most important authorities of the state, high-level foreign delegations, heads of other countries who make visits in Poland or some objects, including Polish ones, abroad. Don't make it so simple that this is about protecting the government. No. What is the task of the State Protection Service is an important safety segment of the Polish state. That's how you look at it. I suggest we understand it that way. This is not for the rulers, especially the current rulers. This is part of the security of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u39	Thank you. Two Members submitted a corrigendum. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u40	Dear Marshal! You didn't understand what I said. I would like you to note, as regards what I said, that during this period of rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, among others. was implemented a modernisation programme with standardization of police commands, and thus step by step such actions were carried out. In addition, in 2015 officers of all uniformed services received a raise of more than PLN 200. And if you follow that lead, you should say you're not doing anything big. Over the following years, you plan to increase the amount of PLN 800 and a one-time increase for the State Security Service - 1 000. zł. How's that for your reward? Police officers - PLN 100, you are a month - PLN 3,000. zł, and your boss - 7, 8 thousand. zł reward. So it is worth remembering how you treat officers. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u41	In the mode of correcting Mr Michał Wójcik. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u42	Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u43	Excuse me, sir. Marek Wójcik, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Well, you haven't understood what I said about cannibalism in uniform services. This is not about the situation you are referring to, the transition from one service to another with the permission of the superior of the service from which you are leaving, and with the permission of the superior of this service, the superior in this position, who is doing so in the service to which someone comes. This is about a situation where officers leave without telling their superior where they're going. They report, and the next day they're admitted to the SOP. And these officers, you don't talk about these situations, and we know that they do, too. And one more thing. You're talking about the SOP being the least of our servants. It's true. Police is a big service, Border Guard is a bigger service than SOP, but if for example. There are five officers working in surgical and cognitive cells and two officers are going to leave, and this unit is no longer able to carry out its tasks properly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u45	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr Wójcik, don't talk nonsense. You are Vice-President of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. It can't be what you say, and it's not, and the recipe doesn't allow it. [[Yes, sir.]] I'm sending it back to art. 70 laws, as regards the fact that someone can resign one day in another's service and go to the SOP. Mr President, this is not possible, please read the article. 70. Don't talk fairy tales. That's one thing. Secondly, Mrs Skowrońska has already fled the room. He's afraid of confronting me. That's too bad. Some sort of upgrade program said the platform was being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, what impudence. She has not implemented any modernisation programme. If you want to talk about the standardisation programme that it has produced, the effects of which financial surpluses and irregularities, you can bring this up sometime in the parliament hall. I'd love to talk about it. I'd love to talk about it. On the other hand, the programme of modernising the law and justice services, the Government of Law and Justice, initiated by the government by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, adopted on 12 January 2007, containing the amount of PLN 6301 million for this purpose, was then extended for 5 years, because it was a 3-year programme. You have reduced the funds for this purpose by almost PLN 500 million, explaining the budgetary problems. On the one hand, you had a crisis, on the other, a green island. You don't know what it was after all. These appropriations have not been made available in this full amount for the implementation of the programme. On the other hand, your Members, Mr President, Members of the Civic Platform, like us, during your 8-year-old governments, when that programme was over, also felt that this modernisation programme had to be continued, that it needed a new edition, but you did not, you did not prepare it. We've prepared it, I've submitted it on behalf of the club in the Seym. Let me repeat: your Marshal of the Sejm has not even given this number. It wasn't procedated, there was a discount as a result of the end of the term of office. Isn't that enough? Not much? We can go on. Today you say you need to restore the old pension system to uniformed services. Who changed it? Who changed the system? You're the ones who changed him. We voted against. The system that requires 25 years of service and 55 years of life today is your system, and you have approved it. Now that I have the opportunity, I'll say something that's worth realizing. Ladies and gentlemen, this system does not apply to all officers. You changed it, I stress it once again, we voted against, I voted against it. This system applies to those who joined and entered the service after 1 January 2013. He does not concern those who were in the service, and such officers are today the majority. Please do not tell me that this system applies to everyone, that it needs to be changed quickly, because it is harmful. I repeat, we didn't invent him, we didn't support him, you did, the Civic Platform and the PSL. The truth must also be mentioned here that this applies, as I said, to officers entering after 1 January 2013. Is this system going to change today? I do not know if there would be public acceptance if we returned to the previous system. You were then using this argument that society believes that this system is to be changed. You've changed him, not us, but you, and today we have to consider whether it would really be a social acceptance to go back to the old solutions. On the other hand, we have a real understanding of the various demands of protesting police officers. We're talking, there's a dialogue going on. Personally, I do not think that this protest will bring any additional revenue to the budget, so the financial situation will not improve. We need to talk. I invite trade unionists to talk, I do so on every public occasion, as well as in direct contacts. Let's talk. There's no hostility between us and the unionists, just to be clear. You guys would have been so hostile, of course, I know. That would be in the script of the street and abroad, wouldn't it? That's where it'd be beautiful. But no. There is dialogue, there is understanding, we just need to look for solutions between the demands and possibilities of the state budget, and also rational solutions, because that is also something that needs to be said. I think that further contacts, further joint analyses and discussions will bring further progress, because this progress I was talking about is very clear as regards the modernisation bill. It is thanks to it that we have a huge leap, we are catching up on negligence and in terms of equipment, creating service conditions, modernising entire formations, and in terms of salary increases. [[And when is the Internet going to be on the police station?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u47	Minister, please refer to the corrigendum. [[Will you answer me, Minister?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address this last sentence to the opposition, but also to the people who organize this protest. Yes, we appreciate it, we appreciate the service, the good service of the officers. Thanks to this, Poland and Poles are safe. 86% Poles believe that Poland is a safe country. This is due to objective public opinion polls. Over 90% He thinks it's safe where we live, where we spend most of our lives, where we go to work, send our children to school, etc. It doesn't come out of nowhere. This is because in the last 3 years there has been a marked drop in crime, the number of crimes in each category and an increase in detection. This also comes from programs that the police implement in the framework of the restoration by our police government to society: the National Map of Security Threats, the district closer to us, emphasising prevention instead of repressiveity, etc. My Command application, increased number of patrols, patrols visible on the streets and on the roads - all of this matters. I ask protesters, all officers to appreciate, and I ask the opposition to also appreciate our efforts to improve service conditions and work in uniform formations, because these efforts are obvious and have good results. After the implementation of the modernisation programme itself, we will wonder how to proceed so that these conditions continue to be improved and that all of this will not go back to stagnation, to stagnation, to this really regression, which was in the years of your governments, i.e. from 2007, from the end of this year until 2015 This is for your government, I'll remind you, you've eliminated more than half the police stations. When you came to power, and we gave it as a result of the lost elections in 2007, there were 817 of them, and after 8 years, after your devastated Polish governments we found only 399 of them. So you've eliminated over 400. Are we still talking? [[Applause]] Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today we proceed to the second reading of the bill amending the Law on the State Protection Service. The State Protection Service Act is, as the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has announced, one of the flagship projects which was supposed to revolutionize the entire system of protection of the most important people in the country, and to modernise to the maximum the existing infrastructure of the former Government Protection Office, which acted so outrageously that it could no longer function. That's what society was fed with. The Law on the State Protection Service only works for six months, and it already requires a very urgent amendment, which in this case the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats does not oppose, and even more so it does not stand in opposition. By pursuing the draft SOP Act at the end of 2017, the government not only did not want to take into account any Members' comments, but by introducing its project, did not fully take care of the people, officers who were to perform completely new functions in the newly created service and meet new challenges. Six months after the bill was passed, it turned out that the passion and splendor of the tasks performed was not everything for the officers. It is important to stimulate material interest. It's logical and you can't resist it. The aim of the amendment, generally speaking, is to determine the amount of the special allowance and the allowance for the qualifications held. As assumed in the committee's report, the total amount of the special allowance and the qualification allowance shall not exceed 75% monthly salaries. The argument with greater financial stability is justified both from a purely human point of view and because of the nature of the service. The amount of the special allowance shall be determined by both the Head of the State Protection Service and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. There is also a change in the duration of the grant period. The Commission's report assumes an obligation to fix the amount of the special allowance by 31 August 2018 for the period from 1 September 2018 to 31 July 2019. If the allowance does not change, it is assumed that it is not required to be re-established. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats has never stood and is not opposed to pro-social solutions, which increase citizens' ability to pay, especially in situations of exceptional service, hence we are in favour of the adoption of the print report No. 2716.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u49	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the IWT Act (Prints No. 2653 and 2679). I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the IWT Act from print No 2679. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 19 June this year. Draft law in print No 2653 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading. The Commission at its meeting on 2 July this year. carried out the first reading and considered the same bill. The project aims to adapt the field structure of inland waterway administration to carry out the new tasks imposed by the Water Law Act and concerns the transformation of inland waterway authorities in Gdańsk, Giżycko, Warsaw, Krakow and Kędzierzyn-Koźl in the delegation. The Water Law Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, provides for the imposition of new obligations on the directors of inland waterway transport offices, inter alia. on the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of inland waterways of particular transport importance, evaluation and reconciliation of planning and investment documents. The current institutional structure of the inland waterway administration will not ensure active policies in the field of inland waterway transport and promote the development of this mode of transport. In the context of the new obligations imposed on IWT's directors and with a view to sound management of public funds, it is necessary to reorganise the authorities and therefore the proposal involves organisational changes aimed at strengthening IWT's offices. It also envisages adapting them to new tasks while ensuring adequate access for citizens to public services provided by public authorities and the proper implementation of statutory tasks. The Commission adopted the drafting of an editorial and legislative amendment that had been tabled. Without opposition, an amendment was adopted to introduce a provision concerning the fact that entries made before the date of entry into force of this Act in registers and records and changes in registers and records made by the directors of inland waterway transport offices in Gdańsk, Giżycko, Warsaw, Krakow and Kędzierzyna-Koźlu remain valid. The Commission accepted without objection the draft law report and I ask the High House to adopt the committee report in print No 2679. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u51	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jerzy Materna, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the IWT Act, print no. 2653 and 2679. There are two main reasons for amending the IWT Act. First, it is the entry into force of the Water Law Act on 1 January 2018, which provides for the imposition of new obligations on the directors of inland waterway transport offices, inter alia. as regards the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of inland waterways of particular transport importance, as well as the evaluation and reconciliation of planning and investment documents. The current institutional structure would not ensure active policies in the field of inland waterway transport and promote the development of this mode of transport. Secondly, the entry into force of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals imposes on administrative authorities, including the directors of inland waterways, the need to ensure adequate standards for the protection and processing of personal data, which entails an increased number of tasks of those bodies. In the current state of inland waterway transport offices, as is apparent from the Supreme Audit Chamber report, are underinvested. Insufficient employment and relatively low wages in relation to the necessary knowledge, qualifications and experience requirements of workers make it difficult to carry out the statutory tasks of IWT directors. In the current structure, financial support was mentioned above. the Offices shall be provided by the Chief Accounting Officer of the Office serving the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport. In addition, one person is responsible for administrative and financial matters and for the inland waterway authorities in most offices. In particular offices, as a rule, there are no persons employed in independent specialist positions, e.g. for defence, legal, classified information, protection of personal data, IT, public procurement or organizational and technical matters. In the context of the new obligations imposed on IWT directors, this proposal envisages organisational changes aimed at strengthening IWT offices and adapting them to new tasks while ensuring adequate access for citizens to public services provided by public service authorities and the correct implementation of statutory tasks. The amendment of the law introduces a reform of inland waterway authorities. The number of central offices is reduced from the present eight to three. These are offices in Bydgoszcz, Wrocław and Szczecin. The remaining existing offices in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu, Krakow, Warsaw, Gdańsk and Giżycko will constitute delegations. Another change leads to full competence in the three main offices, i.e. as regards financial and accounting matters, for investments on inland waterways of particular transport importance. The number of administrative and financial, organisational and technical and personnel matters will increase in three IWT offices. For the above reasons, which I have mentioned, it is planned to hire 30 people for inland waterway authorities. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government project and will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the IWT Act. In the bill, print number 2653, is included, among others. a proposal to reorganise the administration of inland waterway transport by removing five of the eight inland waterway authorities. At the same time, the Water Law strengthens the powers of the directors of inland waterway transport offices, inter alia. as regards the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of inland waterways of particular transport importance, as well as the role of the investor and the issuing of administrative decisions. Such authority is what the authors of the Act want to bestow on the directors of the Inland Navigation Offices in Bydgoszcz and Wrocław in the rank of field authorities of inland waterway transport. The central tasks of the Act are dedicated to the Director of the Inland Navigation Authority in Szczecin. This will be the seat of the River Information System - RIS - and the Central Examination Board, handling passenger complaints and maintaining a database of information about ships, crew members of ships and the state of inland waterways. The Act degrades the Offices of the Środęgowa Shipping Offices in Gdańsk, Giżycko, Warsaw, Kędzierzyn-Koźlu and Krakow to the rank of delegations subordinate to offices in Bydgoszcz - Gdańsk, Giżycko and Warsaw - and in Wrocław - Kędzierzyn-Koźle and Kraków. This location is regarded as harmful, non-pro-developmental and without any functional links, e.g. Kraków and Wroclaw basins do not have any contact points. Therefore, with the concern for the correct, even and necessary development of roads and inland waterway routes, we propose amendments which aim to leave the Offices of Inland Navigation in Krakow and Warsaw. The justification is obvious, driven by functionality - water basins - supervision of the necessary investments in the national network of waterways that do not create a single communication system, but which have a chance of becoming coherent waterways thanks to regional investments. Consolidation of common and office services will not affect the development of inland waterway transport. With regard to the barriers identified by the Supreme Chamber of Control in the development of inland waterway transport, and this should be the case for the authors of the law most, it is primarily the need to rebuild river infrastructure, i.e. all water-related and water-related activities. Therefore, this sector needs to strengthen the expertise so that there is no situation in the State Water Farm of Poland, where the lack of consequences in operation, resulting in the drain of professional personnel, delays even several months in the issue of water permits and water-related documents, not only inhibiting the investments related to water, but even eliminating them. However, hoping that the spirit of the IWT Act will flow other than the Act on the establishment of the state farm of Polish Waters, we are aware of the great amount of work to be done on waterways and waterways, therefore we ask that shipping offices in Krakow and Warsaw be left behind, so that inland transport and shipping on the Vistula River can also be reborn alongside the international Odrzańska Waterway. According to the rule that inland waterway shipping is the most energy efficient and environmentally friendly transport, the Civic Platform Club will support the bill along with the amendments. I'm handing over the amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u55	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kobylarz from the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the draft law amending the IWT Act. In my view, this project is so good that it will not have a negative impact on the management and administration of the whole economy, inland waterway transport. As for consolidation, let's say here, this change is only aimed at directing this as if to three coherent points of this initiative. It goes on, among other things. that the three main offices be set up and the others function as delegations. This will certainly not adversely affect the economy, inland waterway transport. This bill doesn't really change anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u57	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present our position, or actually comments, on the government's draft law amending the IWT Act, Seym printing no. 2653 and 2679. The government draft law includes changes related to organisational transformations of an administrative nature, a new division of competences and responsibilities between new directors of inland waterway transport authorities. The justification for the amendment of the rules in force indicates a change in the organisation caused by internal transfers between central administration and field authorities in designated centres - the office in Bydgoszcz with delegations in Gdańsk, Giżycko and Warsaw, the office in Wrocław with delegations in Kędzierzyn-Koźl and Krakow and the office in Szczecin. The proposed law provides for a budget for the operation of new administrative units for the years 2018 to 2027, covering, from the outset, the effects of the changes. In view of the above, I ask you, Minister, to clarify: Which cost groups have been included in the planned overall budget at the disposal of Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and how is the distribution of funds between different centres - the planned allocation algorithm between offices in Bydgoszcz, Wrocław and Szczecin, respectively? In view of the change in the planned allocation of competences, powers and special budgets between the State Water Management of Poland, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and introduced inland waterway authorities in the preparation of planned investments, in particular related to: - development of feasibility studies, functional-use projects, strategic environmental impact assessments, hydrological analyses, etc. for the planned investments related to improving the navigability of the river Oder; - the state of progress of the intergovernmental arrangements for the modernisation of the Oder border - in particular, please indicate which office is leading in the necessary arrangements for the drainage of the Oder border, its regulatory building and the harmonisation of the river information service; - planned construction of retention tanks, water grades and energy production; - the necessary reconstruction of the lured railway bridge on the Regalica River, within the Szczecin water node, which significantly restricts inland vessels' access to the ports of the Oder mouth; - the current role of the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund with regard to the implementation of planned investment projects, including whether it is intended to change the rules for the operation of the Fund following the adoption of new organisational and administrative regulations - and in particular to ask for information on which public administration will be entitled to allocate funding under the Fund's statutory activities? Our club, Mrs. Marshal, is willing to support the proposed changes and the entire bill, but please answer the questions raised above. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u59	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the Government's draft law amending the IWT Act, contained in print No 2653, we read about the assumptions of the project, its reasons, and we also find words justifying the need for debate and the adoption of a new act, which, as we read, will meet the relationship according to the Water Law implemented and the fulfilment of the recommendations made in April 2016 in the dissertation of the European Union. Our club is of the opinion that we will support everything that will help improve the organisation, maintain or not increase costs, prepare for the fulfilment of the commitments and the tasks imposed. Nevertheless, in the assumptions presented, as well as in the statements made by my previous speakers, there are some worth emphasising the premises, doubts and questions that I also want to put. We are not opposed to the work or the adoption of a solution. We've got to get to the finals. But I think that certain issues should be clarified and I hope that the Minister will also answer questions. Reduction of the number of decision-making centres in the field. It is defined that this will improve the functioning of the administration and will not increase costs. Only is it appropriate to limit these centres to three and their deployment in Szczecin - as the one holding or acting as a central body - Bydgoszcz and Wrocław? Is this enough to ensure that tasks are carried out and take into account aspirations, needs and organisational requirements throughout the country? I think it is very right here to make an amendment that has been made, including Kraków and Warsaw. We do not have practically such a centre in southern and eastern Poland. We are still talking about the fact that we see improvements in the state of the waterways in Poland in the northern and western parts, while silently we go past the issue of improving the navigability of the river Vistula, let's assume, from Krakow, through Sandomierz, to Warsaw and further, along the course. I think that this is a matter that needs to be taken into account and that we need to lean on, because if we are introducing some solutions, let us do so with caution and do not lose sight of cities, centres. Let us take into account the decisions that need to be taken in order for these regulations to cover the whole country so that we do not have to proceed with updating or amending the law in six months, a year or two. I hope that by implementing this law, you will not take an example from the entity of Polish Waters, because there may be equally big problems. But I wish you good luck with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u61	Thank you. That's where we ran out of statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask you as the first question. Member, 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The reason for the amendment is that the new structure of IWTs is to be strengthened by 30 new jobs. I wanted to ask, because it is quite important whether the number of people to be employed in the new structure has been calculated on the basis of some audit, or whether it results from the specific conclusions drawn from its implementation. On what basis did the number of new posts be determined to ensure the smooth operation of shipping agencies after its reform? Let me just mention that after the change in the structure of water management boards and changes to Polish Waters, which you have introduced a new The water law, these institutions have organizational chaos, and people there are looking forward to the promised increases. What is the situation in the Polish Waters at the moment? How many people have you fired? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many were employed? What brought about a change of structure... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. I would ask you to ask Leszek Ruszczyk from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the light of the strategy and planned investments on the Vistula, do you not consider it reasonable that the decision-making centers which will be able to act as investors should also be spread along this Vistula evenly, i.e. in Krakow and Warsaw? Bydgoszcz is naturally pregnant to the road E70, to the Odrzański route and possibly to the lower part of the Vistula. Do you think that these delegations: the proposed Warsaw and Krakow should not remain offices of decision-making importance of the Directorates? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u65	Thank you. The answer to the questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Ms Anna Moscow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards all the questions and doubts put forward, I wanted to make such a fundamental correction. We do not remove offices in any way, but we do a very simple transfer of competences from the ministry to the offices, from office to delegation, but do not remove any offices or take away from those offices, which are delegations, existing competences. As for Szczecin, I also wanted to clarify that as regards these specific powers relating to the management of border waters, RIS and the keeping of the register of the examination commission, they are currently functioning. In this role, the office which performs these tasks correctly shall be tested. It should also be noted that he will not have a new delegation structure, so he will be able to continue this as far as possible. So here, as far as Szczecin is concerned, his competence, we're not changing anything. In this law, the most important thing is that we essentially move the competences of administrative management, above all accounting, legal services, from our ministry to offices, really transferring jobs and strengthening competences. As for the location of these offices, they remain in those places where they have been so far, so we do not plan to change this in any way. This also does not affect planned investments in any way: those which have been implemented will be implemented. Nor does this change the fact that the Ministry is still responsible for strategic plans, strategic investments concerning Oder, Vistula, E30, E40 and E70. We continue to consult on the issue of Oder, and we concluded the consultation on modelling in June. Now we're preparing a plan of hydrotechnical structures. At the beginning of July, POT in Gdańsk signed an agreement concerning a feasibility study for the consignation of the Vistula, so nothing changes on this subject. This is a largely administrative change. The same is true of the bridge on Regalica near Poduchach, which remains the responsibility of the Ministry. We continue to develop the competences of the Inland Navigation Fund - soon we will send the right law to you - by extending the possible expenditure catalogue and strengthening the position of the Fund, so basically nothing here the new one does not arise except that according to the Water Law they have offices here competence to assess and analyse investments. It is still an opinional role - so that we do not see any revolution in this fundamentally small change - which actually gives a certain social justice. In offices, financial specialists, classified information, personal data protection, public procurement, legal advisers, IT specialists, offices should not use only the resources of the Ministry. This is the change that is indicated in the NIK report. Referring to the method of preparing this amendment, we will certainly not talk about some big audit, because it is really about small structures, i.e. 80 people working in these 8 offices, so the word "audit" would probably be some kind of abuse. However, we did indeed analyze tasks, needs, based on the NIK and Water Law report. After this, it seems to me, quite deepened for such a small scope of analysis we have proposed this change. It will be 30 new posts to strengthen the offices and delegations for those posts that I mentioned earlier, and additionally for those responsible for investment from the point of view of the opinion function. Most of the funds that are indicated in the Act are the appropriations provided for in the Staff Regulations, i.e. 2.7 million. Other measures involve natural costs resulting from this reform, i.e. money for stamps, tablets and everything that results from the change of name, furniture, desk and basic equipment for employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u67	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the IWT Act. The law, which has been in force for more than 7 months, provides for new, broader obligations for the directors of inland waterway transport authorities. The scope of these obligations is wide and covers areas such as the modernisation of inland waterways of particular transport importance, their construction and reconstruction, and any other changes to these routes. In addition, the scope of management duties is extended, among others. agree on the necessary documents for investment and planning. Under current conditions, the structure of the shipping administration is unable to ensure active policy-making in the areas it deals with and is unable to promote this very important area in the context of economic development. Currently, the chief decision-making body in the administration of inland waterway shipping is the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport. Lower in the hierarchy are the directors of inland waterway transport offices who exercise power in eight inland waterway transport offices in our country. In all these offices, the establishment plan provides for only 71 posts. The remuneration granted to both directors and downstream workers in this sector is also relatively low as regards the qualification requirements needed for the smooth operation of inland waterway transport. Following the entry into force of the laws of the European Parliament relating to the processing of personal data, the number of obligations to be imposed on directors and other inland waterway workers is automatically increasing. This Act, in view of the rational management of public funds, aims to amend the organisation of inland waterway transport authorities, thereby improving the performance of new tasks and improving the quality of existing tasks. At the same time, citizens will be given adequate access to the public services they provide and the implementation of their statutory tasks will be ensured. Due to the awareness of the changes to be made in the activities of inland waterway authorities, the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u69	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the electoral code law (prints 2660 and 2732). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Almost the same.]] I mean, I have the honour on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission to consider draft electoral law laws to present a report on the work of the committee on the parliamentary bill amending the electoral code law, print No. 2660. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 13 July, the Extraordinary Commission addressed amendments which were tabled after first reading. With regard to those amendments which have been accepted, recommended positively by the Extraordinary Commission, a number of issues should be mentioned. Regulations have been introduced according to which voting results from voting circuits created both abroad and on Polish ships will be passed on to the district electoral committee responsible for the district of Śródmieście m.st. Warsaw, which will avoid their transfer to the electoral commission responsible for the company's seat. Another amendment is the exclusion from the provision of the Article. 153 § 1 ban on the merger of membership of district and district electoral committees with the function of electoral commissioner. The next amendment includes an indication that the district and district electoral committees will also carry out their tasks with the help of electoral officials. The next amendment concerns the imposition of: on the Minister responsible for membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union - the obligation to provide the State Election Commission with information on the number of Members elected to the European Parliament in the Republic of Poland; on the PKW - the obligation to determine, by resolution, the number of Members elected to the European Parliament in the districts and to forward this resolution to the President who will give, on the basis of it, the decision to order the election of the number of Members elected in the districts to the European Parliament. In addition, consideration should be given to the comments of the Legal Office of the Sejm. They relate to the identification of the number of candidates indicated on the list in the elections to the European Parliament elected in the electoral district concerned. It may not be less than the number of seats per county plus two persons. This is probably the most fundamental change we have to talk about. The next amendment concerns the alignment with the rules and the rules that function in the elections to the county council. That is, when the list is three people - each election committee reports a minimum of three people - the list must include the names of at least one woman and one man, because, as we know, 35 percent parity is in force, so in the case of such a short list this requirement is not met. Finally, I will mention the provisions and amendments adapting to the provisions of the electoral code, as well as the inclusion of the results and results of the elections to the European Parliament in a single protocol. The Extraordinary Commission also adopted proposals for changes which emerged from the State Election Commission and the National Election Office. The Extraordinary Commission presents a positive opinion to the High House on these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u71	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the electoral code law, seym prints No. 2660 and 2732. In particular, this proposal amends the existing rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament in electoral districts and introduces the principle that at least three Members are elected in each district. How is this regulated in other countries of the European Union? Because there are objections to why we are introducing such regulations. High Izbo, in the 20 countries of the European Union, these electoral districts are single, i.e. There is one electoral district for each country, and of course the principle of proportionality, which is set by the EU directive on elections to the European Parliament, applies. But interestingly, in these larger countries, the other seven, because I no longer count the UK - but I would like to stress that in the UK these mandate districts were also multi-faceted, also starting with at least three mandates - in countries such as Italy, Spain, Ireland, France, and the Netherlands, there are multi-faceted districts, with at least three seats bigger - even four. In Italy, the largest electoral district is 17-mandate. So we think that the allegations that we are using one or another variable in these elections, since this is acceptable and this is how it is done in many countries, are pointless. Somehow in these other countries, these smallest groups also gain mandates. An example is the Le Pena National Movement in France or the Green Party in Germany, which have representatives in the European Parliament. [[That's a bad example.]] It is therefore necessary to change the existing legal situation. This legal status favoured electoral districts with a large number of people entitled to vote and a large number of electoral turnout, so it was called. A wandering voice. This should be changed because in those smaller electoral districts where one voivodship forms a electoral district, even these two seats were often threatened. 'Cause, you know, like... in the elections to the European Parliament in 2019 this second mandate in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship was granted as this traveling mandate. It's time to change that. There should be stabilisation here, at least three parking tickets, of course there could be more. We know that we have 51 Members, we can have one more. It will most likely already be decided that in the 2019 elections. Poland will have 52 MEPs in the European Parliament. All these changes are as desirable as possible, as well as what took place at the last meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in electoral law, namely setting a limit on the number of mandates associated with the list of candidates - the number of mandates plus two. This is indeed a clear list, not a rigid list of 10 candidates regardless of the number of seats in a given constituency. At the Extraordinary Commission meeting on 13 July, a number of amendments to improve the electoral procedure were introduced, as the rapporteur has already discussed. This was inspired by the State Election Commission. However, on behalf of the club, I am presenting three other amendments of a truly purely legislative nature. These are the relevant references to laws, which had their uniform texts later, so they are later. the numbers of the promulgators, i.e. the journals of the laws, already from 2018, and one clarification provision so that there is no doubt about what law it is about, that it is about the law amended in Article. 1, i.e. the electoral code, and here the rules will apply in the current version. Thank you very much and on behalf of the club I make three amendments to this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Witczak, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The new electoral law is intended to serve one political party, to serve PiS, to serve the party that exercises power in Poland today. This is the obvious reason for the amendment of this law, and this is the truth about the intentions of the legislator. The new electoral order, the new electoral law is to be neither precise nor permanent nor transparent in its rules, nor finally known to Poles. Why? Because the mandates in each electoral district will only be assigned shortly before the election period. This is in our view an unacceptable situation, a situation that cannot be accepted. You have constructed the ordination in such a loose way, you have disarmed it so that it will be very simple to make any novel that will serve you in terms of party, political interest. The truth is, you're thinking about changing the polls. Although they remain unchanged in such a loose way in this document, in the annex, one meeting in December, a brief session of the Seym and the Senate to change the boundaries of the electoral districts, this is a serious question mark. You violate the iron rule of writing ordination for Poles, that the rules contained in it are transparent and that Poles know how to vote tomorrow. On the basis of this document, they do not ultimately know how to vote tomorrow, and this is a scandal, and this is unacceptable. I would like to say to you that you do not understand the idea of writing electoral ordination at all, because electoral ordination is a right for citizens, not for the ruling party. It is the right for citizens to settle politicians like you after your term of office in fair elections at ballot boxes on the basis of precise records. And that's the law you want to steal from the Poles. We're gonna be asking for this bill to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u75	Thank you. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My comments will be of the nature of the comments contained in two packages. The first part of the comments concerns the writing of amendments to the electoral code and its legislative and technical nature, and the second part is substantive. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a draft law amending the electoral code law, which contained eight amendments, and today the report contains 27 amendments. I would like to remind applicants that the electoral code, as well as its changes, and especially its changes, are created in a specific way, because the electoral code is a law of particular legal value. It requires the certainty of its records, not written by politicians for politicians, but for voters - they should understand the electoral code - and it should not be an element to help win elections. So much for technical and legislative comments. I suspect that these comments will be far more, now, at second reading, a few, and I think the next ones will be reported in the Senate. It's just that this bill is written completely sloppy and incomprehensible. With regard to substantive comments, my fellow country, Mr Witczak spoke about the issue of electoral districts. The boundaries of electoral districts should be an integral part of the electoral code. That's what happens in all the electoral ordinations. This is the first time when voters, electoral committees, electoral coalitions, political parties will not have confidence in elections long before elections. The certainty of elections and the equality of elections are distorted. It's only known to applicants. This is an outrage. Such things are simply not done in the ordination of the European Parliament. And it's already clownish and inconceivable that there's a minimum of 3+2 or 5+2 electoral list in the electoral districts that count a few million voters. Ladies and gentlemen, where are the electoral coalitions, and where are the million-dollar electoral lists that we have in small municipalities? After all, this is an unacceptable scandal and a denial of all kinds of electoral games. It's more like an election game. On behalf of the Civic Platform, I am proposing to reject the report at second reading because the Civic Platform wants to take part in elections and wants to compete, but in a fair way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] No supportive measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u77	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Thomas Jaskoła from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with basically a statement from which I almost always start. Until there are one-mandate electoral districts in the elections to the Sejm, the Sejm will absolutely not work properly. We see it in the committee, we see it in the courtroom. The social side, which observed the extraordinary meeting of the committee, sees exactly the same, sees the scandalous way in which law is being dealt with in Poland. I would like to say that this project is beneficial for the Law and Justice, because it is obvious, but it is also beneficial for the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that a proposal with eight proposals for changes, articles, had been sent to the committee. Now the authors of the project - I am, of course, abstracting from the comments of the State Election Commission, but not all of these comments you are listening to - they have already changed 27 and they will be next. This shows how badly we create law in Poland. And it is bad here, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not seem to be able to read the European Parliament's services. May I quote, that is, an article of the electoral procedure to the European Parliament: In each Member State of the European Union, Members of Parliament shall be elected on a proportionate basis using a system of lists or a single vote to be transferred. The answer to these problems is, of course, the national list. The Kukiz Club15 will submit a draft for elections to the European Parliament during this meeting, introducing a national list, which will be one big one-mandate electoral district, as is the case in most European Union countries. There's nothing wrong with that. Contrary to appearances, there is no residual proportionality here. Please note that around 25% of people, citizens, participate in the elections to the European Parliament. This means that in the method you proposed, about 10% citizens, or 12% or 13% , elects more than half of the European Parliament's deputies. If the Law and Justice Committee wins, it's 10%. 30 parliamentarians will elect voters. It's gonna be the first committee. The second committee will be the Civic Platform, which will take the remaining 22 mandates. Is that proportionality? Of course, this is not proportionality and there is no doubt about it. There is no mapping of the proportionality referred to in Article. 8 as regards the electoral procedure for the European Parliament and the procedure. During the committee meeting, there was some kind of confrontation about whether these changes were important: important from the project point of view, important from the point of view of the electoral code. As we know, such important changes can only be made six months before the first election. Mr Waldy Dzikowski rightly said and showed that these changes are important. Not much, both the social side and the Kukiz club15 have shown In fact, these changes are important. It reduces your calendar, which means that of course such changes can be made, only you have to remember that the Constitutional Tribunal should express itself in this matter. Although, after the last sentence, it can be different. [[The Court will speak.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Legislative Office stressed at the committee meeting that both your proposal and the amendment I had the pleasure of submitting - and I have tabled it on behalf of Mr Winnicki - are far-reaching changes, so we are limited by the deadline. I stress that you do not pay attention to the fact that we have a nominal threshold of 5%, but in fact this threshold will be much higher. According to our estimates, it can definitely reach from 16%. Up to 20%. Please do not lie that it will be different, because from this moment on there will be a duopol in the European Parliament, there will be two structures - everything about the PiS and everything about the Platform will be nothing more. Of course, we all know from 2015 that you are breaking the OSCE report by breaking the article. 32 constitutions. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to make an author's amendment by Mr Winnicki, which divides the constituency into four districts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and giving real opportunities to all small committees to introduce Members of the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u79	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa will now speak from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the proposed amendments to the electoral code. Under the cloak of the complicated Election Order, which, I will remind you, has been in force since 2003, you are actually making changes that do not serve Poland, do not serve Polish democracy and are simply bad solutions. I ignore the fact that the draft law that you tabled, including the two pages, was prepared very sloppyly, that you introduced 5 pages of amendments to it, and I do not count here the amendments of the State Election Commission, that these amendments went far beyond the scope of this draft law. But what you are doing in the framework of this amendment - if you would even listen to Mr Hermelinski's statement at the Extraordinary Commission meeting - is really abolishing the principle of proportionality that my previous speaker was talking about. The principle of proportionality is enshrined in European documents and you are well aware that elections to the European Parliament must take place in a proportionate form and must take place with a maximum electoral threshold of 5%. If you radically raise the electoral threshold to a dozen or even 20% in some districts, you really break that rule. The representative of the PiS club, Mr Matusiewicz, referred to various solutions here. Yes, it's true, one constituency is in 20 countries of the European Union, but in Spain, for example. There are 10 parties who have won their seats, a mandate there was even 2% because there is no threshold, in Italy it is seven parties, in the Netherlands nine parties. We practically have an open formula everywhere, and in Poland, too, if you look at it, the elections to the European Parliament were the most open elections and the result of the vote reflected, translated into parliamentary mandates. With these proposals you are presenting here, you are putting up with these elements. Another element, I submitted on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern request for public hearing, because after all, the draft bill prepared by you did not really have any consultation, was introduced out of the blue and at a very fast pace you want to announce it. You rejected it, too. You do not take into account the various analyses reported by the Jagiellonian Club by the Batory Foundation. These analyses were really very much and correspondence in this area was very wide. You didn't just want to consult. I realize that you have centrifugal forces, that you want to influence Fr Rydzyk's ambition here, that you want to correct Macierewicz here, that all agrees, but you cannot destroy Polish democracy for this reason. Ladies and gentlemen! Because, as has already been said, these elections must take place in a proportional formula with a maximum of 5% threshold, firstly, I submit on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern proposal to reject this draft law at second reading. And if he does not pass, I propose one amendment, quite comprehensive, so that Poland is one electoral district and that there is a vote for candidates in the open form, so that the lists of candidates can contain as many candidates as there are mandates to be obtained, and to a minimum 60% of the membership. Another element, the allocation of mandates will take place in accordance with method d Hondta, so the result of the vote will reflect the most, translate into representation. You must remember that in these elections we do not elect Mr Podkarpacie to the European Parliament, we do not choose Mr Podlasie - there is no guarantee of... [[The Republic of Poland.]] ...because it is a common district with Warmia-Mazurski, there may be three Members from Warmia-Mazurski or vice versa - but we choose Polish representatives in the European Parliament. In democracy, there is a fact that people with greater recognition, and in large districts they can't be anonymous, probably and have a better chance of getting a mandate, but you can't close this democratic system so much, narrow it down to just two camps, because it's looking at Only from today's point of view, from the point of view of your immediate interests, also from the point of view of the expectations of those Members who previously sat in government benches, and today are demoted a little lower. You cannot do this under Mr Kuchciński, whom you no longer want him to continue to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's a marshal because he can't handle it. You have to do it just for the Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u81	Thank you. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the draft electoral code law, no. 2660 and 2732. On Friday 13 July, the Extraordinary Commission met again to examine draft electoral laws. The contested bill of two and a half parties received a good dose of amendments from Members, namely from Members of Law and Justice, who submitted them to five parties. You can see the proper preparation of the authors. The Legislative Office made it clear that they went far beyond the scope of the submission, as confirmed by the scandalous legislative procedure. Taking into account the current case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, the constitutionality of this law should be questioned after it has been passed, but the Constitutional Tribunal is a facade institution, as we have repeatedly had the opportunity to see. If the contested bill entered into force in the form we see it now, it would be contrary to European Union law, because there would be a serious violation of the article. 1 Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament. In Poland, the principle of proportionality applies with the use of the list system and this is the proportionality expressed on a national scale rather than on individual districts. What does that mean in practice? This means that in combination with very small districts in terms of the number of seats regardless of the number of votes won, the same mandates can be obtained: 5% - one ticket, 10% result - one ticket, too. There may be cases where the result will be 15% And he'll give you one ticket. Joseph Stalin once said, "It doesn't matter who and how he votes, but who counts the votes." You are creatively developing this electoral principle already in the upcoming elections to the local government, creating a committee to determine the results of the elections, and additionally implementing the principle: it does not matter who and how they vote or who counts the votes, but who and how they distribute seats in the electoral districts. Large political groups will be primed, which excludes smaller committees with stable support. It has been decided not to change the electoral districts, although it is known that the European Parliament is changing, as in terms of the number of countries the European Union is changing. We had 54 MEPs in Europe, 51, and soon we will have 52. These are relatively small numbers, which even a small correction has an impact on the distribution of seats in electoral districts. It is not only that we have the highest electoral threshold across the European Union, which cannot be higher in accordance with EU law anymore, but we are one of the few countries in which there are electoral districts in the elections to the European Parliament. In some districts, the number of tickets will increase from two to three. The PiS perfidiously increases the number of mandates to the European Parliament in districts where it has higher support. Numerous media reports of possible exodus of PiS politicians for well-paid positions in the European Parliament are, in fact, key to understanding this draft law. It is clear that there is a fight for position 1 within the group to guarantee a mandate. A reduction in the number of candidates on electoral lists is intended to introduce specific protection. You probably don't want a repeat of the situation where the PiS MPs headed by the Minister of Justice went to the European Parliament, left the PiS ranks and created a new political project. A smaller number of candidates are less likely to get a ticket in your opinion. As far as the issues covered in this project are concerned, it would only be possible to consider rigidly assigning the number of mandates to the electoral district concerned, subject to appropriate changes in the number of electoral districts. Although it will not be, so far, to award districts with a large electoral turnout, and it is precisely with turnout in the elections to the European Parliament that is the biggest problem, and it has been since 2004. In addition to the amendments of the State Election Commission, the rest of these provisions are suitable for baskets because they do not present any added value. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of our club, I am applying for the rejection of this project and at the same time amendments which will indicate that we want Poland to be one electoral district. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u83	Thank you. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's this change in ordination for? What's the point of this PiS campaigning for the European Parliament? Why? For what this power has been for three years at all. To the stools for his own, for more power, for more power, which is incompetent, for more power which deceives Poles. Why do you want to change ordination to the European Parliament today? To fix the PiS-PO duopol. This is your intention. If you really vote on this project, it will be obvious that your goal is duopoly and governing change with the Civic Platform as law and justice. This is your political purpose. This is your goal, which does not count for Poland and its national interests. And you're afraid, you're afraid of voters, you're afraid of competition on the right. Why? Well, because you tricked voters into the most important things because you let hundreds of thousands of immigrants in because there's a project that makes it easier for immigrants from Ukraine to settle down. You let tens of thousands of Indians in, you let thousands, tens of thousands of Muslims in. You tricked voters when it comes to immigration, you tricked voters when it comes to State Forests. You want to privatize the State Forests. That's why you're up to speed on ordination. Why are you lying? Why did you cheat the Poles? You tricked the Poles into protecting the conceived life. You've been blocking this project for months on committees. You cheated, you lied. You're no better than the Civic Platform. You betrayed the hopes of right-wing, patriotic, national, Catholic voters. That's the truth. That's why you're changing this electoral order. And what will be the result? The result will be this. Following the imposition of the results, which were in 2014, on your ordination, your proposal is the following: plus 5 mandates for Law and Justice, plus 4 mandates for the Civic Platform. All other committees lose, including the fact that the only Eurosceptic Committee of the New Right, which entered in 2014, receives 0 mandates. Four tickets to zero. This is the result of your ordination. Eliminate Eurosceptics and consolidate Platform and PiS duopol. This is your intention. The insincere intention of once again unproductive entrapment and filling your stools with your own. That's the truth. That's the truth. You see, you feel that even in the right-wing electorate, you are starting to lose your support that your governments are inept and in content - because not in form, in form, you constantly mantrate - they are really liberal. [[Socialist.]] Liberal, socialist, leftist, yes. That's why you're afraid of voters. If you were honest about what you were going to do, you would have accepted this amendment that I tabled at the committee meeting and which Mr Jaskół has now raised on behalf of Kukiz15, which is an amendment that divides the country into large electoral districts, as suggested by the State Election Commission at this very committee meeting. If we are to divide the proportion of the representation of citizens and if we are to divide the geographical division of the country, then, as Mr Hermelinski said, let us make large districts, at least ten-mandate. That's the amendment. If your intention really was to make the representation even, that's what you'd do. But you're doing a three-, four-mandate deal in the current districts, and at best a five-mandate deal. And that's the manipulation. This is gerrymandering in the worst sense of the word. The Poles will see it. Poles will see your hypocrisy, just as you cheated on immigration, abortion, State Forests, state wealth. The Poles will see your hypocrisy despite the combination of ballot boxes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u85	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice. [[There isn't.]] Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment implies that at least three Members of the European Parliament are elected in one electoral district. The idea raises opposition even to the right - winged environments, which we could hear from this place just moments ago. This project offers a chance to succeed in elections only to large groups. It's a system that will create space for two large voting blocks. This is undoubtedly detrimental to the quality of democracy in Poland, given the current social moods. Yes, the ordination of the European Parliament is complicated, but the proposed law does not solve this problem, but only deepens these divisions and social conflicts. And questions: Is it true that politicians, important politicians of Law and Justice, are seeking refuge and immunity in the European Parliament for fear of law and justice after democratic parliamentary elections? Is that the idea? Are they the authors of this bill? And second question: Please indicate what actors have expressed their views on the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u87	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 340a § 1 The legislator shall determine the minimum number of mandates in the district. These are three parking tickets. As we know today, all the elections to the Europarlia were held in 13 districts. I am from Opole Voivodeship. My region is in one district with Dolnośląskie voivodship. There are four more such cases, which is why I am very keen to be clear about which districts the next elections to the European Parliament will take place. I also support the principle of large districts. It would be best if it were one national district. I think that would be most fair when it comes to elections. But if we have a situation like this, I would like to ask you this, because there is no indication of the number of mandates in the amendment of this law. We think it'll be 13. All we know is... [[Districts.]] Districts. The State Election Commission will determine the number of seats in the district 110 days before the election date. My question is: How many circles are really going to be? How many tickets are there gonna be in the districts? We're supposed to split 39 parking tickets here, right? However, there are 12, possibly 11 seats for the additional chapter. Will we not, through this system, reduce the possibility of choosing our representatives as parliamentarians in Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask what are the real reasons for this change of electoral ordination to the European Parliament, because the fact that you want to eliminate smaller groups is obvious. At present, any committee that exceeds 5% The votes, he gets a ticket. After this amendment, up to 15% He won't be giving a ticket. I would like to ask if, acting on this model, you want to change the electoral ordination to the national parliament when this amendment passes. Ladies and gentlemen, the real reason for this amendment is your fear of putting out your own list by people associated with Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk. You're gonna block them with that change. The PiS state, you're up to it and you're up to it. So you don't overthink it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u91	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one's ever been better off messing with the election ordination. Despite these changes, you will not get most of the Polish mandates for Europarliament. Poles see what you're doing. Regardless of your ordination, they're gonna judge you negatively, and you're just gonna lose this election. As you can see, this is another legal bull, because 19 amendments to the bill are being made. Then what's the bill for? Why couldn't you prepare it calmly, well, and then file it in the Sejm, but you're putting another legal bubble in the High House? I have a question: What are the electoral districts to be in the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament? How do you want to change these circles? Mr PiS spoke about the fact that each district will be guaranteed three mandates, but that does not mean that each voivodeship will have these three mandates, for example. Podlasie voivodship is in one district with Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship and it may turn out that these three mandates will have Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. If you change this way, change it so that the Podlaskie voivodeship, the district from which I come, is guaranteed these three mandates, so that it is a separate constituency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u93	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can think about the intentions, the intentions of doing something like this. The parliamentary project indicates that you want to prepare additional profitable jobs for your friends either for yourselves or for your friends. That's the situation. Why do you want to rob small groups? They have no chance of getting any kind of mandate in this ordination. Therefore, some voters will have no representation at all in the European Parliament. The question is whether or not you should be doing this bill at all. Wouldn't it be better if you gave up this election? If you think that the European Parliament is simply a temple of evil, that all the worst things are happening there, that the European institutions are to be erased, then why are you going there? And I'll tell you, you're going for the money because you're so greedy for the money. If these numbers are falling in front of your eyes, you just want to get those Members' tickets right away. That's all I can say. I wonder if President Kaczyński tells you: listen, you don't go into politics for money if he wants 80%. Your salary will be spent on charity, or you'll pay your tickets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u95	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that applicants agree that elections to the European Parliament are based on the choice of representation of the country, Poland. The representation of Świętokrzyskie voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship or Podkarpacie is not selected separately. You will agree that the biggest problem of these elections was attendance, which did not exceed 24% in 2014. That was a problem you're not completely attacking in your submission. What are you doing? You're trying to guarantee the right minimum number of tickets in these districts, as if that were the most important. No, it's not. This solution, which we have had so far, has led to the fact that the districts which presented higher attendance, higher awareness, a higher willingness to participate in what is called Europe, could have had more of these mandates. And telling stories about some traveling mandade is another lie, another reason to confuse people. There's no such thing as a traveling ticket. There is a situation in which circles that do not vote, who do not vote very well, have fewer seats. On the one hand, you disgust Poles with the European Union, the European Parliament, the European institutions, and on the other hand, which will translate into lower or low attendance in those districts where you have the advantage, you want to guarantee yourself the right number of mandates. This is hypocrisy, because in the eastern half of the country, where you gained an advantage in 2014, only 19 seats fell. Now it needs to be concreted and guaranteed the outcome of the election in advance, so that we can actually divide these mandates between our own. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u97	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of Law and Justice! Well, after jumping seats in the Treasury companies, government agencies came the time for well-paid mandates in the European Parliament. It's basically a symbol of your governments. Picking yourself up and taking it into your own pockets. Convince your citizens to conduct their diplomacy. Convince citizens of the way they conduct international talks, not in the law, not in the electoral order, because that's not what it's about getting electoral votes to artificially pump tickets. Nothing else is this print that we're discussing, like this artificial manipulation. You want some of the citizens to take their representation in the European Parliament to put politicians like Mr Macierewicz there. And the opposition's agreement to have politicians like Mr Macierewicz sit in the European Parliament is the biggest political sin we can commit, because Poles know very well that you are damaging the image of our country outside the borders of the Polish state, that you are acting to the detriment of the image of Poland in the international arena and that you are really embarrassing us in the European Union. Permission to print it would be the same as trying to get you to make agreements with Putin. That's our agreement, the opposition's consent will never exist. Stop fooling the citizens. That's when you get 18%. The support of Poles in the recent elections does not mean that we will now give you the vast majority of seats in the European Parliament for the next small percentage. And that's exactly what you want to achieve. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u99	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I'll ask... They're supposed to be questions, so I'm gonna ask you a few questions. It is a pity that, as far as applicants are concerned, there are only two people left, sorry, three people left. First of all, is this an attempt to eliminate the Kukiz15 movement from political life? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Yes.]] The second question that's already been asked here. Since you don't like the Kukiz Movement so much anymore, 15... You're not the only ones because the Civic Platform feels the same way, and I'm not gonna mention those who are screaming. [[Come on, I like you.]] Who exactly did you discuss this with on the Civic Platform? With whom exactly did you decide to create this duopoly in Poland? [[I like you.]] Another question that's already been asked here. If you can reduce the salaries of European parliamentarians, will you still want to continue this activity? And finally, the last question, I think, is the most important question. Everyone knows that our group specifically had no ambition in terms of Europarlament. We want to do our business in Poland. On the other hand, there is a very clear question: Is this a general test before the change of ordination to parliament, to the Sejm and therefore the concreteisation, the elimination of democracy... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...the concrete of duopolis and consequently, in your image, rule by law and justice forever? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[I agree here, but I like you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Dlugi! No one from the Civic Platform. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We want to open your eyes so that you're not an object, you're an subject. That is why we are making persistent requests for rejection in the first, second reading. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] So that you don't be treated instrumentally, why? We really like you guys. You may be needed on the political stage of the Republic of Poland. [[Mr President, this is proof that you have an appointment.]] And that's what we want to help you with. Please don't disturb us. That's one thing. [[You're dating PiS all the time.]] Secondly, I wanted to highlight two things that are extremely important and really crucial for this inept, sloppy amendment of the electoral code. The first thing is that the principle of proportionality and equality, as well as representativeness, is distorted there. I'm thinking circles three plus two, which is the number of tickets. Or rather, the number of tickets plus two. It's worth laughing at, it's really outrageous. How can multimillion-dollar districts, Mr Schreiber, be compared, once again, to small districts, municipalities? Do you know how you change this ordination? This is a procedure to limit the presence of citizens in the electoral process, so that it is clear. That's how it's supposed to be. [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] This can't be right. This is clearly an amendment that is coming to this. Second thing. You're just trying to help yourself to be monopolisists of knowledge, what the electoral districts are supposed to look like, and how many tickets are going to be. It's simple today. For each ordination it is such that it is an integral part of the electoral code, integral, and the power to change - possibly the representativeness or representative standard changes, but, as in this case, and the number of mandates - are the powers of the PKW and she does it. What's the point of explaining that we don't know there's gonna be one more ticket? He's coming from a brexite. Today's 51. Please establish a representative standard. That's the way it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now and the PKW will change that. It's a scandal, isn't it? We know very well that since the day of the announcement... Before that, electoral processes are ongoing - among citizens, coalitions - and the creation of electoral coalitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u104	I'm not gonna ask questions because there's no answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u105	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u106	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Why do you need this change? Why do you want to go to the European Parliament for election? I will answer my former colleagues: to push myself even more so as to earn six or eight times more than in the Polish Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, sir. You make these weird faces, but you know perfectly well, and you know that it's just for jam, for profit. There is this change in your hands because you will not introduce 19 MEPs, but you will concrete the political stage in the elections to the European Parliament into two blocks. One block is Law and Justice, and the other block is total opposition. Without this total opposition, without the Platform, without the Modern, without the CODE and other political parties and organizations, you just don't have oxygen. [[They can't live.]] The most important thing to you is this system. The idea is to be stuck in it so that the Civic Platform can rule in one election and in the other elections rule law and justice. The voters go to the margins, the citizens are second-rate. That's what these changes are for. It is a shame because that is not why you should go to the European Parliament. You didn't run to the Polish Sejm to run now to Brussels, which you are attacking so much, and which you will praise in the next few minutes, in the elections to the European Parliament. For you, the most important thing in the Polish Sejm, from what I have noticed, is to raise taxes. Don't worry: if you go to Brussels, you will be chosen, you will also be able to make life miserable for citizens, Poles, and raise taxes to make Poles worse. But we as Kukiz.15 say one thing: we need to change this system, we need to change this duopol, we need to change that, so that it is not just and only [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice and total opposition, because the Kukiz15 movement is primarily to fight for the interests of Poles and Poles here in Poland, and that is what we focus on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Napoleon once said that the election was just a formality. In fact, the most important thing is what's before the election, which is the law itself. For a majority of Parliament, there is one small problem: you are once again approaching the electoral code, and what is worse and worse is the attempt and approach. You don't even listen to your think tank specialists anymore, the Jagiellonian Institute. They crashed the project. They in a well-understood interest not only of Poland, but also of you as parties show you with a finger, tell you where there are sins. Mr. Palade also shows you the place of the sins of this bill, the project, where you make mistakes. You're not listening. You didn't listen to the local elections, you didn't listen to your specialists at the Euro elections. I am already starting to build such a story more and more, hopefully I am wrong, I hope I am wrong that the local elections are supposed to be warm-ups, Euroelections - a general trial, and in fact the essence of all these changes will be such a profoundly concrete political scene for the national parliamentary elections. This is gonna be the flower that's gonna show your true intention. This is what I am afraid of, and this is what all free citizens who are not from the CODE, who are Poles who want to participate actively in elections, vote and act for Poland. You're doing the exact opposite of what you're doing today, forgetting that polls are changing. There used to be this SLD party. She used to have power, too, and she had no one to lose to. [[She had over forty support.]] She changed her ordination, and then it turned out... They're not here today. This is a lesson. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a good idea to draw a conclusion from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Humility first. Very good, a little humility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to raise the topic of attendance. This current ordination, whatever it may be said about it, encourages attendance in the regions to be as large as possible, as greater attendance gives the opportunity to obtain more seats in a given district. If you think that in Poland people vote in regions at a very similar level, you are very wrong. Warmińsko-Mazurski Districts, Podlaskie Districts - less than 20%, turnout in 2014, Warsaw District, Warsaw - more than 35%. This shows that where there is a great involvement of citizens, where there is a lot of social activity, where people want to exercise their right to vote in elections, it is rewarded. In this ordination you are proposing, there will be absolutely no profecative incentives. What encouragement will they have in the three-mandat district, I do not know, voters of Kukiz, Modern, Polish People's Party, left? They won't have any. They will know very well that they do not have the opportunity to obtain any mandate, so going to the ballot box and voting will have no rational reason. Your ordination will lead to the fact that your interest in the elections to the European Parliament will not even be at the 25% or 2% level that it has been recently, and that our challenge is to treat these elections on an equal footing with others, because you are well aware, especially after Trump's recent defeat in Helsinki, that the European Union is the community in which we should focus our main strategic goals and fight for the very important status of Poland. I am already overlooking this aspect that your representation in this Parliament has done nothing good in these 14 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u112	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My questions will start with the question of when in Poland governments will lead to democratic elections, so that the nation can choose democratically, which is not only now, in these future elections to the European Parliament, but also in elections to the Sejm, in larger cities. You are trying to ensure that only party clans can own seats in the European Parliament. In Poland he goes to elections, I already said, about 40% Poles, because you and your predecessors do everything to go to choose as few voters as possible, because most of them are people who are employed in budget units, education, uniforms, health care, and entire party clans. The current election is a party election. That's how you murder citizens' movements and small committees without giving normal citizens a chance. When are you gonna stop saying that you're doing everything for the good of the nation, of course, to screw us over and take over the tickets for the party guys? The Citizen's Movement Kukiz15 fights and calls for JOWs in elections both to the Polish Parliament and to the European Parliament, so that Poles have a choice, they can choose people to bet on, who can be trusted, who will represent us, our citizens and our beloved homeland, which is called Poland. Enough with the fairy tales, accept Kukiz's offer15. Then all those who deserve it will run. Local elections are coming up soon, so I'd like to take this opportunity to say something. They're already promising. People come to me that the parties promise: come to us, collect some votes, and you'll have a job. That's not what democracy is all about. Democracy is a free choice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that I am one of the two Members who took part in this discussion who had the opportunity to work in the election committee during the fifth term of the Sejm. The second Member is Mr Waldy Dzikowski, who was then vice-president of this committee. But there were people on the committee like the current Presidential Minister Andrzej Dera, like Mr Marek Ast, Mr Wojciech Sharama and many other Members of Law and Justice. And I would like to remind you that during the fifth term... in the sixth term of the Sejm, the work on the electoral code was carried out in a completely different atmosphere. Firstly, the chairman of the committee was an opposition politician. We were working on a project prepared by the opposition. Our goals then - and it is worth talking about it, because here there are many lies and various accusations about that work - were above all to broaden citizens' access to the electoral process. And we did it, among other things. by voting by a proxy, by voting in correspondence. Moreover, we have managed to defend these additional forms of participation in the electoral process at the Constitutional Court. But our goal was also to harmonise the electoral law, which was then collected in five or six pieces of legislation. And we managed to do that, too. At the time, we also discussed the European Parliament, because the electoral ordination to the European Parliament seemed very complicated. At the request of the members of the committee, a public study was commissioned to assess how the rules would be translated into access for groups, their representatives to the European Parliament, if any. And the expert result was clear - any digging into solutions that are in force will lead to small parties being deprived of any access here, of any possibility of representation in the European Parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we decided to leave these rules unchanged. And I would like to remind you that the electoral code of 5 January 2011 was adopted unanimously by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question in connection with the distribution in the media, but also here, in this Chamber, by some of the honourable opposition, of many exotic opinions about this project, whether the realization of the representation of particular districts in the future European Parliament can be regarded as any restriction on democracy. In fact, one more question could be asked as a result of the 550th anniversary of the rise of Polish parliamentarianism, because a little later, in 1463, we have the principle of selecting two representatives, i.e. a specific double-mandate district. Was this a solution contrary to the idea of democratic representation or not? Because I think we can talk about the deep wisdom of our ancestors here. I think this is a reflection on the project under consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u117	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Łukasz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer some of the questions that have been raised during this discussion. High Izbo! The first issue that Mr Witczak raised is that we are preparing some change in the electoral districts. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that, in line with the 12th amendment, which is being made in Article. 329 § 1b of the electoral code is the prerogative of the State Election Commission, not of any party or of this House, to adopt a resolution on the number of Members elected in the districts concerned, and the composition of the State Election Commission will not change until then, so I do not know what the problem is, as far as that is concerned. And you know very well that today it is difficult to establish this beyond everything, impossible because we do not even know how many mandates there will be, how many Members of the European Parliament we will choose. The second point is what Mr Jaskola said - the national list as one great JOW. Dear Member, this is an exact denial of one-mandate electoral districts - one great JOW. These are two extremes. So please be honest that this is an intention from the point of view of, I don't know, a political interest, not an intention to support the idea of the JOWs, because it has nothing to do with it. Besides, JOWs are impossible in elections to the European Parliament, as we know, even in the UK they do not apply at that time. Mr Długi, on the other hand, asks for Kukiz to be eliminated15. Absolutely, I believe, and as was apparent from the discussion in the Extraordinary Committee, that is not the intention and that is not the goal. I mean, Kukiz15 would probably be eliminated if one-mandate electoral districts were introduced. But that is not the purpose and purpose of this work, which, I believe, is guiding this work. Mr Owa speaks of a broken principle of proportionality. But we don't really know why. If we accept such logic that the districts of 3-, 4- or 5-mandat break the principle of proportionality, we have broken it in the local elections which are ahead of us, and for many years, because the districts in the elections to the district council of 3- and 4-mandat are standard, while the 5-mandat districts are absolutely on the agenda not only in the elections to the councils of districts or communes, but also in the elections to the county council of voivodeship. For example, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship there will be only 5-mandat districts. Mr Zgorzelski is once again talking about the committee for determining the results of the elections. But this is a name that has been transferred from the electoral code drawn up in previous terms, so it is difficult for the High Chamber and the legislator to question the names of chapters of the electoral code. It's worth knowing. And there's often a word about the alleged legal bubble. High Izbo, if the legal framework is to show that there are amendments made during Parliament's work, if, as I understand it, the perfect project is a project which is adopted without any amendments, then the question why is Parliament at all, since there is no discussion in it, since there are no amendments to be tabled during committee work or drawn up on the basis of the comments that are being made in the plenary room. This is totally amazing to me. I'm so sorry. Finally, I think that someone will be happy - because here I have heard many times that those who are working on this law, on these changes, i.e., I understand that this was a remark addressed to the members of the Extraordinary Commission, who want to go somewhere else for higher money - I certainly do not intend to run for elections to the European Parliament. So that, at least for my part, this is certainly not the intention, and I think that this is not the intention of anybody in the Extraordinary Commission. If someone, some club, for that reason, appoints representatives, it's very bad. And well, High Izbo, I wish we could talk more about good ideas and how to change good electoral law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u119	Here you are, the representative of the applicants, Mr Artur Principle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lots of opinions, emotions, and really very few facts. I am very pleased that Mr Łukasz Schreiber, rapporteur of the Extraordinary Commission, presented some facts about this law. I would like to confirm and like to emphasize a few, because it rained from very many mouths today in the hall - I have the impression that they arouse some emotions and it is the consequence that someone has not read the content of this amendment or our proposal. There are 13 electoral districts left. These are the circles that are listed in the annex to the bill. We don't change this annex. There will be 13 electoral districts, and the number of Members assigned to each electoral district will be determined by the State Election Commission for information from the Minister responsible for EU integration issues, how many of these Members of Poland are entitled. Because I will remind you that in the 2004 election it was 54 Members, in 2009 it was 50, then, after the treaty, it increased to 51, and today it is 52 in connection with Brexit. That is why there is a provision in the amendment so that a permanent procedure is enshrined in the Act, which will allow for such division of mandates into different constituencys. Will the National Election Commission be able to do so freely? Because there was a charge that she could do it any way she wanted. Of course not, because she will have to apply a uniform representative standard, i.e. it will calculate how many inhabitants in a given electoral district live, and this uniform standard will correspond to the number of seats in a given electoral district, so it is not discretionary, but results from the content of the bill. I also want to reassure you that even if we hadn't made that record of a minimum of three seats in the county, there wouldn't be a circle that would have less than three seats today. And now a few more answers to the questions that came out of the room. My favorite Member of the Owl is not here because he left again before he received the answer to the questions. On the other hand, I answer: Mr, this is not the case. That's what I said at first reading, when you were supposed to be there, and you left, too. Let me repeat: it is not that attendance is the determining factor for whether a given mandate is in a given district or not, because if we assume that, for example. in the Silesian district, the list reaches 20% and in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie district it reaches 25%. and attendance in the Silesian district is 20%, and in Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 25%, this one mandate will unfortunately be assigned to Silesia only because there simply live more people, more voters. Another allegation is that there is no possibility in the three-mandate electoral districts that a list smaller than the two main blocks that were mentioned could be given a mandate. [[There isn't.]] Of course I do. Example: Kujawsko-Pomorskie, three-mandate district. Despite the fact that the left-wing list gets a result of 9.5-10% , and Mr Zemke gains 21% because he is well-known, well-liked, respected because he is an authority because he is a local leader, he is such a person, even according to this result, who gets a mandate in this electoral order, because this is a chance that local leaders... This is also an argument addressed to those who today said that in some districts those who represent smaller formations - I am talking about voters - will have no reason to go and vote. That is obviously not true. In the current ordination, when everyone knows which five districts, if the list gets five mandates, will be assigned to these wards... In eight precincts, voters know there's no way their candidate gets a ticket, and that's why they don't go to the election. Even in the three-mandate district today - but there are four-mandate districts, there are five-mandate districts, there are few, there are six-mandate districts - and especially in these larger districts, if someone is a really strong local authority, he has a chance to win such a mandate, and when we change the voter's vote in the war. Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Podlasie or in war. Western Pomerania is equal to the voice of Silesian or Cracow's inhabitants. As for the amendments, there was such a charge that 27 amendments had been tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Members of the Kukiz movement15, half of these amendments have been tabled by your colleague Tomasz Jaskola. The National Election Office has proposed some solutions, Mr Jaskoła has taken over these amendments, signed with his own name, and half of these 27 amendments are amendments tabled by him. I thank him very much for this because it is a constructive contribution to the work on this document. Half of these amendments were tabled by the Kukiz15 movement and, as I say, this proves that... [[That's what it says about...]] No, no, no. This indicates that we were open to other clubs' proposals. Since Mr Jaskoła wanted to make such amendments, he tabled them and they were adopted by a large majority, as not by all votes. Mr Wójcik - I don't see him either - said that the work on the electoral code was based on the idea of harmonising the electoral code, electoral law for all types of elections. Of course, this is not the case, because the complicated electoral procedure we have in the elections to the European Parliament is no longer even in Poland, there is no such complicated procedure in any country of the European Union. This is a procedure that consists of three steps. I even asked the committee which of my fellow Members was able to stand up and explain what the Hare-Niemeyer method was about to calculate the votes, and no one could answer me. And how are voters supposed to answer that, even those who are interested in politics, if politicians, and the members of the Extraordinary Commission, are not able to explain it? Thank you, Mr Owl, for coming to us today, and returning. Unfortunately, I've already answered your questions. [[There are also committees, unfortunately.]] Yes. Here's the answer. I'll say it again. If only it had been three, four. - Five. - and the six-mandate electoral districts are violating the principle of democratic elections or proportionality, that is what today has shown. so that the elections to the county, the elections to the sejm, are undemocratic elections, and those who, through such elections, get a mandate, would be elected in an undemocratic procedure. I guess that's it. Finally, I would like to stress once again that our project is a project that introduces a clear, simple and legible procedure that is fair, because the voter's voice in every district is equally important. This is a procedure that does not change the number of districts, and the number of seats per district will be attributed by the State Election Commission, not by politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u121	It is undemocratic, sir, to change ordination under one group. It's a commentary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voice in the discussion.]] Voice in the discussion, yes, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 29 hours 12 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into land ownership rights (prints No. 2673 and 2729). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into land ownership rights, print Nos 2673 and 2729, namely the printing in which the report is included. The bill removes legal barriers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very diverse situation of the owners of the premises, as some of them have already acquired ownership of the land occupied, but some are vainly seeking the exercise of their right. In the light of the above, the government project envisages converting the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into property rights by law within a certain period of time, i.e. 1 January 2019 Such a solution means that all members of the housing communities are subject to a statutory transformation without the requirement to allow for a change of law. The proposed law also covers owners of single-family homes. According to the Government's proposal, the authorisation of perpetual users will be paid for, but it is, of course, envisaged to apply reductions in conversion fees in the form of discounts. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law was examined on 12 July 2018 at a joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, which took place at the seat of the Ministry of Investment and Development at ul. Common in Warsaw. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Association of Polish Cities and a nationwide association agreement to defend the rights of members of housing cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act transforms the perpetual use of land with housing into the property right of the land in an arbitrary manner, because by law with a statutory date. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is very expected. On behalf of the joint committees, I would like to inform the High House that a large number of drafting and legislative amendments were tabled during the meeting. There were no substantive amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law contains these amendments, the print report 2729 contains these amendments. During the discussions with the public, questions were raised, of course answers were also presented. Consequently, the draft law contained in this printing contains 29 articles. Substantive provisions are added in Article. 5, in Article 5, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6, in Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 16 and, as I said, many legislative and editorial amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u123	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to submit 11 amendments to the report on the draft law on converting the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1 aims to clarify the rules in the context of the rules applicable to the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners. Amendment 2 aims to eliminate interpretation doubts. The next amendment, 3., aims to remove restrictions on the distribution of the conversion fee into instalments - or to set a different deadline for lodging it - and to grant discounts on that fee. The next amendment aims to clarify the provisions by indicating the form, and this is written. The next amendment aims to simplify and streamline the mechanism for granting discounts on annual conversion fees. The next amendment is editorial and aims at adapting the name of the certificate confirming the transformation to its new name. The next amendment: the proposed amendment aims to adapt the annual fee payment mechanism and the one-off fee in the first 2 years since the recast, i.e. 2019 and 2020. The next amendment aims to remove the doubts that may arise with regard to the use twice in one sentence of the word "recast," but each time in a different sense. The next amendment aims to clarify the rules. And last amendment, 11... The regulation is retroactive and can therefore be considered incompatible with Article. 2 Constitution, which formulates the principle of non-retroactivity, i.e. lex retro non agit. It is therefore proposed to delete this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club is very clear and precise in favour of the bill submitted. In particular, we listen to the voice of people who live in housing communities, who are often simply wronged because of the fact that, through the lack of consent of roommates, fellow residents, even, you can say, neighbors, they cannot obtain ownership of land. We remove these barriers, arbitraryly, but very unambiguously and in accordance with social expectations. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I strongly support the proposed proposal. Thank you very much. I present to the Marshal the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u125	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the opinion of the Civic Platform club against the government's draft law on converting the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. It is clear that many Poles will benefit from this bill. On the other hand, local authorities will lose their future income, i.e. residents at the end. The Act states that each Pole who is a user of the perpetual land on which he owns an apartment or a house will be the owner of this land by law, after payment of the conversion fee. The Act gives the possibility to pay this fee for the next 20 years or in full, in advance. In the case of perpetual use on the State Treasury land, the situation is clear, because for payment of the fee in full only in the first year after conversion each will receive 60% Increases. The problem arises in the case of perpetual use on the ground of a local government unit. Revenue from perpetual land use charges is one of the revenues of the local government's own units. This law removes one of the sources of funding for the tasks of local governments. The responsible government should propose to cover financial losses in the form of compensation, not, like the current one, to shift further tasks to local governments without providing them with the means to do so. Next year - 2019 these losses will not yet be present, so we will propose, as the Civic Platform in the Budget Act for 2020 that compensates local governments for them. Another strange solution to this law is the introduction of the highest discounts for the payment of the conversion fee only in the first year after the conversion of perpetual use from the State Treasury. I stress: only from the Treasury. And the first year after the transformation is the 2019 election year. You've introduced a 60% incentive. discounts only in the first year, so that Poles will pay the entire fee as soon as possible in 2019 when you are giving public money away in the election campaign. Nor do you want to move the vacathio legis of this law, as we have requested, because you want its effects to be felt in 2019. And the extension of the vacathio legis would allow municipalities to prepare for this change and upgrade the rates for the use of perpetual land everywhere. We note that this update is a long-term activity and some municipalities are only in the process of these changes. You will lead to the fact that in one municipality the neighbours will have to pay very differentiated rates of the conversion fee, which will be socially unfair. I would like to remind you that since 2020 in the revenue of the Treasury, the position will disappear: perpetual usage fees, but you are not interested in what will be after 2019. You need money immediately at the expense of the future income of local government units. Every responsible government should act prospectively, thinking not only about the next election year, but about future generations. I would like to point out that on 10 March 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal decided that the request to convert the perpetual right of use into the property right of municipal land caused gross interference with the property right of the municipality. This shall be governed by Article. 165th Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which says: paragraph. 1. Local government units have legal personality. They are entitled to property rights and other property rights. Paragraph 1 is The independence of local government units is subject to judicial protection. The Court found that it had been broken in relation to municipal land as it infringed property rights. The question of the compatibility of this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland remains questionable. At the committee meeting on 12 July, it was reported by the Polish City Association and even by the Legal Office of the Sejm. Despite the reservations I have put forward, the Civic Platform supports the possibility of taking over the land used by Poles. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] At the same time, we hope that you will support our efforts to compensate the municipalities for their losses. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u127	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Government's draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. This is a project that is so close to me that at the beginning of this term I started a Parliamentary Group on. The regulation of Property Relations and one of the three pillars that this team dealt with quite intensively was the conversion of perpetual use into an act of ownership. On several occasions, this team has been working, welcoming representatives from the Ministry, for example, at the invitation of Vice-President Paweł Lisiecki. We have been very thorough in discussing this subject, also pressing on the Ministry to speed up work on this type of change. We, as a Kukiz club15, have been talking from the beginning about the fact that this formula of perpetual use is some archaic thing that works. The sooner and as far as possible we can get rid of it, the better it would be from the citizens' point of view, because this is an important element. I am less interested in the view of the municipality and its income. Because if I thought that, then I would have to consider that any tax reduction that the municipality collects is an act to the detriment of the municipality's budget, because it's her income. But we're supposed to represent citizens, not individual levels of administration that either get income from our wallets or don't get it. This law defines in quite detail the concept of housing-built land, indicating which of these premises will be converted. The project significantly limits the possibility of establishing a new perpetual right of use for residential purposes. First of all, all cooperatives, developers, indicate how this appropriation will take place, point to very short basically vacathio legis, which is to ensure that this law becomes operational as soon as possible. It applies for certain land, those owned by the State Treasury, a 60% reduction if an annual payment is made. Here is a point: why these are just the ones on the State Treasury land rather than the local ones, because it seems that this would be far more fair and evenly distributed. Here's what I'm gonna say: It's a good thing now. It's a little late, but we're glad that this kind of change is being processed by the government. Note: Why not go on? This is my question to the Minister, why we are not going any further, even further with the elimination of this form, this quasi-ownership, let's say. Because I'm sure we'd be in favour of solving this problem definitively. We also have two questions, which in my case arise from a little bit of the subject matter that I am dealing with - it is about the topic of reprivatization - possibly because of the lack of any reprivatization in Poland, the real one, because I am not talking about the hochsztapler. I mean two things: how will the situation be verified, whether we are not dealing with built-up properties, which either have claims, or may claim - because this problem is unresolved, this market is not fully analyzed and tested - or whether the owners who have been deprived of these properties can appear? This is the first element. And the second element will also be the answer to whether the government is even considering solving the problem of reprivatisation, possibly the form of solving the problem, i.e. Do you fear that, by acting... this element will greatly train the possibility of using replacement properties in a possible reprivatization process, because there will certainly be various such properties, especially municipal ones, which could be used. In the drafts of the bill, for example in the draft of Senator Andrzejewski, the most advanced in this Seym, it was clearly indicated that in case of inability there would also be a pool of substitute properties. I'm sure this form of ownership transformation will limit that. Is this because we do not think at all about solving reprivatisation, compensation, or what we call it, or do you have another way of solving it, or does the government even think about how we are going to solve it later, because this problem is certainly going to happen when it comes to this issue? However, of course, we support the law itself and the law change, because it is going in the right direction. We would like to take another look at the 11 amendments that Mr Rzońc presented to us here, so we will take a closer look at them. I hope nothing very surprising is going to be there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government on the Government's draft law on the conversion of perpetual land to residential land into land ownership. As I said in my first reading, the draft legislation submitted concerns a very important social problem. The enlightening intention of transforming perpetual use rights into property rights for land owners for housing purposes is a response to the expectations of housing owners who have not so far benefited from legal opportunities in this area. The proposed solutions will allow a one-off closure of an important social problem, for example. as a result of the revaluation of the property is a heavy burden for many housing owners. In addition, it will allow you to organize perpetual books for individual properties. The draft law also provides incentives for quicker repayment of annual instalments, as this incentive should be considered as an incentive to obtain a reduction of up to 60%. the amount of all charges in the event of one-off repayment. But there are also two elements that are somehow pregnant by this project. It is worth learning from this for the future. The draft law, prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Investment and Development, was substantially amended by the legislators. It can't be that projects so unprepared, unfinished are coming to the Sejm. It's bad for the quality of government legislators' work, and you just have to avoid it for the future, Minister, because you're taking responsibility for something that you probably didn't fully control, but what you're responsible for. The quality of government work must be high. There cannot be such a situation as the committee meeting, because I know that you were simply embarrassed in human terms when each article was reworded, received a different sound. And on the pregnancy project, I would also like to remind you, the possibility of appealing him to the Constitutional Court. Mrs Chmiel has already mentioned this. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the Constitutional Tribunal has already ruled in a similar case that it cannot be a top-down expropriation of the assets of local government units. Nevertheless, I believe that similar solutions will be applied on the land belonging to the municipalities as in the case of land owned by the State Treasury. This should be the case, because it is simply in the interests of the inhabitants of individual local communities. Members of the Membership Club Modern will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today's debate is the continuation of the first reading, the continuation of the work on the government draft law on the conversion of perpetual land for housing according to prints 2673 and 2729. The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee at both the previous meeting and today, as well as my previous speakers and the Minister, have repeatedly stressed and justified the purpose of the project. We as a parliamentary club, in line with the statement at first reading, see the purpose of bringing the legislative work to a conclusion. This is a very important project and we believe it should be adopted. Nevertheless, if I repeat practically certain points, I will allow myself once again today to address the Minister, since it is not a storm in the legislative order, because the President, on behalf of the club, has tabled amendments, which we will also be debating. Then perhaps the Minister would like to lean on it. I mean, these local governments, what you said, it's only going to be a loss of 12%. in local government budgets. Well, it has to be, let's assume... As you put it, this is a small amount for local governments. But why give this excuse, why even give this excuse to feel... to think that this is the next topic that's being dealt with at government level again on us self-government people, with certain, smaller or larger burdens? All the more so because - I would like to stress - you have defended this project with great commitment and despite the situations that were in committee and in the plenary room, you have really stood behind it and let me tell you, the face of these solutions. So maybe there's more to it than that. And what I also emphasized in my first reading - this relief. Good thing it's 60%. in the first year. I'm not saying it's 2019, I'm not commenting on it. But in the second year, if organizationally one of the residents who live there couldn't buy it out in the first year or pay it, and he would be able to do it in the second year or in the third year, can he give it a chance? Except for the other ones... These feelings, in my opinion, as one who has functioned in this province every day for many years or decades, would be different. Besides, I maintain what I said at first reading that we will be in favour of this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u133	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we are pleased that this project is being processed - a project to transform the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. The capital city of Warsaw, and precisely the organ of this city, or city council, already last year on 8 June adopted solutions that provide the inhabitants of Warsaw with the possibility of transformation with the provision of very high discounts. In the case of individuals and housing cooperatives, this reduction is 95%. It may increase to 99% if this fee is paid once. The question is very concrete: Is the entry into force of this law, which we are investigating today, in some way can modify the regulations adopted against individuals and housing cooperatives in the area of m.st. Warsaw, which is very eager to use the resolution of the Council of M.S. Warsaw, waiting, after making appropriate proposals, for a transformation? I think that's gonna be the question I'd like to ask. I look forward to the Minister's opinion so that we are aware that the provisions you have proposed, with a conversion fee, with such a long, 20-year payment period, will not be less favourable than those adopted by the Council's resolution. Warsaw in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u135	Please, Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Will the Act apply to companies in which housing units are located, which do not yet have the separate ownership of individual premises to which residents, persons in these premises, are entitled to buy-out of housing under the Law of 15 December 2000 on the rules for the disposal of housing owned by state-owned enterprises, certain commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury, public legal persons and certain housing owned by the State Treasury? In other words, will the land in the permanent use of such a company be converted into property under this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u137	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, we argued with the Minister about the amount of proceeds from perpetual use to the Treasury. And the Minister and I were right because we talked a little bit about other things. The Minister said 62 million. Indeed, this is the money, while the total is 1400 million, because some remain in the voivodship offices, because income from perpetual usage fees is settled by the voivodships and only then transferred to the state budget under heading 700 of the budget: Housing economy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how much the revenue of the State Treasury in 2019 is provided by the Government for transformation fees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u139	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill has indeed been expected for a long time. I am surprised at the Civic Platform Club that it still wants to postpone the date of entry into force of this law. As far as the Sejm is concerned, the deadline is optimal. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister whether, in fact, as was the case in the opposition's club speech, there is only one relief in the case of one-off conversion, i.e. in the case of a conversion fee of 60% or there are other reliefs applied later. Do local governments really have funding, such permanent and endless funding? I mean, taxes are changing, too. I think 20 years is a very good time for local governments. Was that agreed with local governments? Has this period of 20 years been calculated somehow? Can there really be a danger of acknowledging that we are acting to the detriment of local governments? And another question: Can we assume that thanks to this law we give more for less, or that we give property for a fixed limited fee? True, it is up to 20 years, but usually less than those existing contracts, because they can often exist for several decades. Can we therefore accept that we give more for less? So they get the property of a natural person, but all the owners of the apartments for less, right? That's another question. It also raises the question whether there will be further steps to eliminate perpetual use as a whole, or whether there will remain the state which is at the moment that we are decommissioning in the apartment and remain perpetual use in the Civil Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u141	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to refer in my question to the case that I raised at the last session of the Sejm in the case of this point, namely the case of the garages. As far as the garages located by the residential buildings are concerned, the matter is clear, it was explained. We know how this is going to be done. I am referring to garages which are located on plots not related to residential buildings, which were given in perpetual use for 40 years to owners, i.e. people who built these garages from their own resources on the basis of a permit. There were rules that allowed the land to be transferred into perpetual use. Many cities, due to their chaotic development or other reasons related to the spatial plan, passed these garages for 40 years in perpetual use. I do not know what is in the amendments mentioned here, I do not know these amendments. Is there any idea how to solve these cases? Often these garages are close to residential buildings, but on separate plots, as I mentioned. This is simply a problem, especially concerning western Poland. Is the Ministry aware of that and any idea? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u143	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant, and in fact to all of us, Members of the Polish Parliament, whether it really took so many years of free Poland to solve the problem of ruining this Soviet solution, which is perpetual use, from the Polish legal system. I am pleased that thanks to the decision of the Sejm voters in its present form, this relic of Soviet domination will eventually end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u145	Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Transforming perpetual use into property rights under the Act is a long-awaited move. Indeed, these voices of protest must be prostrated against translating the solution to this problem into a further period of time. It's time we did it. I think that in this term of office this perpetual use should ultimately be removed from Polish legislation. Previous solutions, which were valid e.g. in Warsaw, they gave the opportunity to transform with a large bonus, but almost few people could benefit from these solutions. Were or are there districts in Warsaw where it could be used in the case of only one building or one real estate. And now the question is: Is the government working on solutions that will ultimately end perpetual use? What about the perpetual use established on the land belonging to entrepreneurs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u147	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u148	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You point to the attachment of Poles to property. The conversion of perpetual use into full ownership is certainly a good direction, but on the other hand, the issue remains when we are talking about freedom and attachment to property, restrictions on land trading. This case makes it very difficult to inherit, freely dispose of your property. If a family member dies, then his heir they cannot freely own this property. This is a particular problem. It is misunderstood by family members who are entitled to such property. So when are you going to make a change -- because it's up to you -- and you're going to stop practicing this rhetoric of foreign land buyout, and you're going to give the heirs the opportunity to freely own their property? And another thing. We are transforming perpetual use into full ownership, and we are not giving a chance, despite the assessment of an expensive project, the living+, to make it possible, despite further actions, to - and whether it will be possible - to buy back the apartment implemented under this project. Because today you have someone else's property through this change, and I would also like to reverse it. Especially important for Poles is the issue of free circulation of land, the possibility of inheriting, buying parcels larger than 30 a [[♪ The bell ♪]] or located in another village. The matter of inheritance and property is a constitutional principle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u149	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for this discussion, for the debate, for thanking Mr Dzońca for the amendments. I've gotten to know them, and they're improving this bill. With regard to Mrs Chmiel's statement and the Platform's club speech, I would like to make a little liking to Marshal Tyszka here, because if you say that in 2019 we will be giving public money, I understand that in this situation, giving discounts, we will take less, so in this sense I wanted to please myself. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're gonna get it back through this.]] About Mr Jóźwiak's speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u151	Joswieka, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: What did I say? Joswieka. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Oh, well, I'm sorry. Of course, thank you and the team president and vice-president for the work they have done in this area, and I declare that we will want to resolve problems concerning the elimination of perpetual use in general, not only in residential areas, which, as you know, is not so easy and obvious, although it is not quite simple here in the case of housing, because it concerns, firstly, entrepreneurs, and this will certainly require the consent of the European Commission, and it concerns ensuring a different solution in the Civil Code and regulating a number of issues relating to the functioning of the Polish Union of Departmenters, churches, enterprises, etc., and so this must be a systemic solution. And this is the solution that we are starting to work on, and I hope that I will have here in your allies. Why does the separation situation apply only to the State Treasury land, there is no statutory bonus for local land? It is a bit so that, from our point of view, it is absolutely essential that this law is compatible with the Constitution. Poles must have a guarantee that this law will be in accordance with the Constitution. Taught with experience in this area, we wanted to avoid any situation that would undermine this kind of constitutional compatibility, hence full freedom for local governments in terms of ownership of the wealth of local governments. Self-governments have complete discretion in this regard. As far as claims are concerned, this project has no impact on the way in which the claims are dealt with. We have a situation that we already know from the article today. 229 U.G., which means there is no way to return in nature, there are only compensation possibilities. And that bill doesn't change that. With regard to Mr Owl's statement, contrary to what he suggested that I should be ashamed of good cooperation with the Legislative Office, I would like to say that I value this cooperation very much and I believe that the law in today's form is a law that precisely defines those concepts which still had to be defined at this stage of legislative work. Mr Kotowski spoke about the second, third year. And that's what happened in the questions. Mr Smolinski also spoke about this. There is no such thing in the case of this increase in the area of the State Treasury land, that we limit it only until 2019. It is the highest in 2019, each subsequent year is lower, but in each subsequent year the one-off payment can be used. As for Mr Szczerby's question, we are aware that there are trials, it is not, you can say, idyllic, as it has been said here, but sometimes there are effective transformations in particular of multi-family, multi-residential buildings under the current 2005 Act. And we in this law have provided the mode by which those inhabitants who have started this procedure and believe that it will be more financially beneficial for them - and so may be in some situations - will be able to do so on the basis of this mode which has already been adopted. They will be able to simply choose whether they want to benefit from the recast on 1 January 2019 on the basis of this law which we propose. In the case of Mr King's question, we have a situation in which this perpetual user is the company, and this company will become the owner of this property. And this company, when selling apartments, will sell them with land ownership. Ms Chmiel's question. Before this debate, I promised not to talk about money, so I will keep my word because it is not about the revenue of the state budget in this bill. The idea is to give property to Poles, but if we accept a hypothesis, because there is a hypothesis here that Poles will be very happy to benefit from this possibility of discounts on one-off payments, then the revenue of the state budget for this purpose in the first year may reach about PLN 600 million. As regards Mr Smolinski's questions, I answered them by answering the previous questions. Mrs Czernow's questions were about the garages. In the case of garages, we have these terms defined in the definitions which are contained in the article. 2 laws, and if the garage is related to housing, that's okay. Unfortunately, if the garages are moved, they are separated from the apartment in the way we defined the infrastructure related to a single-family farm or multi-family housing, we have a situation in which we move this problem to the scope of system solutions, because in another situation we would unfortunately have to deal with public aid and entrepreneurs. So there is a problem with garages even for individuals, but there are also garages that are simply commercial, large garage teams. This problem must be resolved in the preparation of system solutions. I also answered Mr Lisiecki's question, I believe. We're planning a system solution. On the other hand, I answer Mrs Skowronska's questions that this project has no impact on the reduction of land circulation. It seems to me that the solutions we are adopting facilitate the issues that you are talking about, i.e. The special housing bill, which the Sejm adopted, first, introduces the possibility of implementing housing investments on agricultural land in cities, but, second, introduces, Mrs, because that was also the question, institutional rental with the option of accessing property directly in the law. All those who wish to use this formula will be able to benefit from the statutory institution, which is set out in the law adopted. [[And throwing it on the pavement?]] You know, it's like today we have a commercial lease and a municipal lease. This is how I visualize it. A commercial lease means a renter's advantage and less rights for him who rents it. In the case of municipal rental, there are far more rights for the tenant than for the tenant. In the case of institutional leases, we have a balance situation when the interests of both parties are equal and without this there is no development of the rent building. I would like to say more about some of the general issues that should sound in this debate. Firstly, we have really guaranteed the constitutionality of these solutions. If someone asks me where these 20 installments came from, I can say, the fact that these instalments are 20 is the price for the constitutionality of this solution. Why? Because this is how we maintain the principle of proportionality imposed on us by the Constitutional Court. This is a situation where these revenues will be at the level of the current revenue generated from the recast of the law under the Act of July 2005. This law gives nearly 2.5 million users eternal property and protects them from something that is today in the legal doctrine a dispute that can have really far-reaching consequences if it does not remain merely a theoretical dispute and will have a practical dimension. It's what happens if you end up using it forever. I wouldn't want any Pole to think about what's next. On 1 January 2019 he will have a guarantee that he will own not only his house, his apartment, but also the land on which this house is located. We've really done our homework on the Constitutional Court judgments. I wrote a whole series of quotes here, and I quoted them at the committee meeting. This sentence, which was referred to by your Member, concerned an extension to legal persons. We have avoided those charges which could be brought by the tribunal in respect of this project. As to the substance of the matter, the tribunal had no doubt, because, I quote the judgment of the tribunal: The conversion into property of perpetual use, which was established for the construction of housing, is constitutionally justified. And we have fulfilled these conditions, which are necessary to ensure that this perpetual use is in line with the constitution, namely, firstly, that we have covered the regulation of all perpetual users. Uniform feature: These are users of perpetual land built with residential buildings that meet housing needs in these buildings. Secondly, we have provided payment at the level guaranteeing landowners income such as those resulting from the existing system of conversion fees. And thirdly, we have eliminated the emergence in the future of perpetual use for housing purposes. On the other hand, I would like to say one thing to the state that defends the government today, in my opinion, without need. The Court pointed out that local government ownership is not private property but was created in the course of systemic changes on the basis of state assets. Therefore, the protection of local government property is subject to a specific modification and the municipalities must be faced with the limitation of the rights granted to them, whenever this is required by ordering a legacy which is not compatible with the new system conditions from the period of the Polish People's Republic. This is part of the ruling. Print an expression - this is absolutely what we're dealing with here in this project. This is a situation that is not compatible with today's business conditions, including housing. For what reason? Due to the fact that perpetual use was created at a time when no one isolated the premises in multi-dwelling buildings. Today, everyone who owns the apartment owns the apartment and will own the land as of 1 January 2019. Self-governments really shouldn't complain. Because we from local governments also remove the obligation to update fees, while also giving the possibility to update fees in 2018 in accordance with the Constitution. Because the basis for issuing the certificate and calculating the conversion fee will be the decision of 1 January 2019. In short, we do not restrict local authorities in any way, although I hope that local authorities in 2018 will limit themselves in updating these fees, because we have often faced such an absurd situation that after years of lack of updating, the post office suddenly brought information to the citizen, to the Pole, that from today, from 1 January of one year his fee has increased 7- or 8 times. It was completely socially unacceptable. Self-governments after 1 January 2019 will not have to carry out the procedure for the valuation of administrative proceedings. We are prepared, in cooperation with local governments, to handle the whole thing within 12 months. That's the period. We are also prepared, we have secured the funds for the eternal books so that the operation of such a scale, involving millions, is carried out in an efficient manner, so there is no concern about it. We have really taken into account in this project all the doubts of the local government. If we are talking about the garages that Mrs Czernow asked about, it was also such a request from the local government that we should not regulate the garages, because this would be a large interference from the point of view of local government income, much greater than in housing construction. So once again, this project makes Poles landowners and is a compromise with the local government in order not to limit their income in any way. It is so thoughtful that the price paid by residents is the price which they pay for the constitutional certainty of these solutions at the same time, because this law will defend itself against the Constitutional Tribunal and Poles after 1 January 2019 will be landowners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by Brzochok's team from the Royal Birch with invited guests. Welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Now please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mr... [[And the corrigendum, Mr. Marshal?]] Oh, I'm sorry. Corrigendum. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u152	Dear Marshal, I wanted to join you in greetings for our guests. But as a corrigendum: Dear Minister, You were smart enough to answer me, but I was asking about the rotation of the land. If we have a criterion for converting perpetual use into property rights in the field of land trading, then I do not see the same symmetry. I asked the Minister to answer when the possibility of free circulation is restored to property. In the case of heirs to whom it is due, the state in its projects, in its laws you have established restrictions. When, then, will these restrictions be removed? And in terms of de minimis aid, in terms of garages, we understand this very well, because when we prepare the bill on subscription fees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister of Culture has just met with a lack of opportunity here. In this case, there was a possibility. Thus, in terms of de minimis aid, the whole sector, i.e. everyone, would have to be treated equally: subscription and land trading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rozonca isn't here. Then I will close the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law (Prints No. 2581 and 2720). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law, Print No. 2581 and 2720. The first reading of this draft print law No 2581 took place at the meeting of the Sejm on 5 July this year. The project was then considered by the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system on 27 June this year and, together with the report, was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance with a request for the adoption of the attached draft law. The Committee on Public Finances at its meeting on 5 July this year. considered the draft law contained in the subcommittee's report. A single amendment to the article was tabled during the detailed discussion of the changes in the bill under examination with the participation of the vice-minister of finance by the group of Members. 1 concerning the deletion of words, with the exception of tobacco products. The Committee on Public Finances voted on this amendment. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, in accordance with print report No 2720, I recommend that the High House adopt a draft government law amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u155	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No. 2581, and the report of the Public Finance Commission, print No. 2720. The aim of the project is to further facilitate and simplify the business rules carried out in the area of products subject to excise duty payment. It is intended to reduce the costs of business activities and the time-consuming handling of businesses by tax authorities. It also introduces tax preferences for CNG and LNG, i.e. the preferential zero rate for these types of energy carriers intended to drive internal combustion engines. It also provides for a number of changes that resolve interpretational doubts. In the course of the work on the project, editorial changes were introduced, which were detailed. It was clarified, among others. definition of the use in the country of excise goods listed in Annex 2 to the Act consistently in point 22 of Article. 2 (2) 1 Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duty. For example, in the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 the amended law clarified the definition of the jurisdiction of the tax authorities to rule on the refund of excise duties. The precise scope of the data to be disclosed on the documents completed by the entities in the course of the recording of transactions in Article is described. 31a Act amending the excise duty Act. The provisions in Article are detailed. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (2), taking into account situations in which certain conditions which are necessary in the light of other provisions for obtaining such exemption need not be fulfilled when applying excise duty exemption. These and a number of other specific clarification provisions did not change the basic message and concept of the government draft law amending the excise duty Act in the course of the work of the finance committee, leaving as a bold but consistently introduced change the reduction to zero excise duty on CNG and LNG. CNG and LNG with zero excise duty in addition to or in parallel with electromobility will contribute to reducing atmospheric emissions from the use of means of transport, especially in urban traffic. With today's little loss of tax revenue, we achieve a positive element in fiscal stimulation and incentives to invest in green technologies. The law shall enter into force within 14 days of its publication in principle, except that the provisions referred to in Article. 13 will enter into force from 1 January next year, while the work of the finance committee extended the deadline for the entry into force of the Article. 1 point 31 (a) and by May 20th next year. These provisions concern the dispatch of excise goods under suspension of excise duty. High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present to your marshal another amendment clarifying the rules and describing precisely the rigor that this regulation must comply with in relation to the so-called. de minimis aid, the rigour imposed on us by the European Commission. I am handing over this amendment to your marshal on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, and I ask you to give her an opinion on the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the Customs Law. I was talking about the fact that the law doesn't cause controversy at first reading. During the committee's work, the Civic Platform tabled an amendment that was accepted by the committee, which we welcome. According to the draft law, goods exempt from excise duty, i.e. duty free goods sold in duty free shops, were to bear an excise duty mark, and yet the general tax rule states that the excise duty mark entails a tax burden. Therefore, we hope that the High House will share the decision of the finance committee in this small matter, but from a formal point of view of the incorrect original provision of the bill. At second reading on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to make amendments. This is due to the fact that, unfortunately, the Law and Justice Government has imposed 34 new taxes, tributes or raised those already in force within 2.5 years. PiS introduced the issue fee, it is about fuels, but, also the power charge, the transitional fee, the water levy, the bottom fee, the recycling charge, the excise duty on e-cigarettes, the flat-rate rent, the bank tax, the commercial property tax, the trade tax, so far suspended, the gambling tax, the taxation of services in agriculture, also increased excise duty on used cars, raised VAT, soon will raise VAT again, that is for the following years. We've already got an announcement to make. The government also announced a solidarity tribute, which is another tax. And that's not all, because we have an even higher an effective tax rate by freezing tax thresholds and income costs, removing the amount free for a group of taxpayers in order to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and raising the amount free for another group, but note, a group whose annual income does not exceed PLN 6600. The annual revenue shall not exceed PLN 6600. We also have the abolition of the 30-fold pension contribution limit, the fate of which weighs. The list of new burdens on the PiS which it has placed on citizens is, of course, much longer and I would not have had enough time for this, but that is why we believe that the amendment of the excise tax law is a good time to reduce excise duty. The Civic Platform proposes in its amendments to reduce excise duty exactly as the price of a thousand litres of petrol and diesel fuel, mentioned in the Act, increases after the introduction of the emission levy. At the same time, of course, we propose that this reduction in excise duty by this amount should enter into force at the same time as the issue fee, which is 1 January 2019. I'm making corrections to your marshal's hands. Of course, I recommend the High House to accept them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member, thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. Excuse me, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to state my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and the Customs Law, print No 2581. The project deals with simplifying and facilitating the business of excise goods by reducing administrative burdens for businesses, reducing their costs, as well as time-consuming handling by tax authorities. The draft law also provides for the introduction of tax preferences for CNG and LNG for internal combustion engines. The aim of the project is to introduce changes that eliminate interpretation doubts as regards the application of the applicable excise duty rates. Its purpose is also to indicate in the customs legislation the same method of charging and collecting interest on customs duties as is in force under the rules determining the collection of interest for late tax arrears contained in the Tax Order. The government project will undoubtedly make it easier for entrepreneurs to do business by reducing the number of procedures and documents required. It will make the application of the applicable excise duty rates more transparent and instead of the paper delivery document used outside the excise duty suspension procedure after the project has been voted out, entrepreneurs will use the electronic document. The report of the Committee on Public Finance proposes some changes. Among them, it is worth adding a section: Money Penalty Rules. Its regulations should have a positive impact on timely reporting. However, the question arises as to whether the imposition of penalties will in some cases be too severe. There is always such a question, always such a reservation have entrepreneurs. I hope this isn't used by the other side. It is for the competent head of the tax office to determine whether there are grounds for not imposing a fine. It is worth noting that the project still does not provide for clarification of the conditions under which non-user status operators would be informed of the intended control. Taking this into account, of course, and taking into account this document and the work that has been done on it, as well as the proposals made by Mrs Leszczyn, which my club, the Poselski Club, has made. Modern support, our support for this bill also depends on the support of these amendments and perhaps further clarification of some provisions, not in the Seym, but in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on excise duty and the Customs Law, in print No. 2581 and 2720. This project was the subject of an analysis of the Committee on Public Finance and the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system. Several changes have been made in the course of this work, but with such an ordering, precise, legislative nature. The most controversial was the change, the amendment adopted by the subcommittee concerning the marking of Polish excise marks of tobacco products sold in duty free shops. This has been met with negative assessments both by representatives of various economic associations and non-governmental organisations participating in the meeting, but also by most of the members of the Committee on Public Finance. The amendment, which, as a result, was rejected - I am talking here about this rejected sub-committee text - through the vote of the committee's Members, brought a mess and gave rise to the possibility of irregularities and scams. We have adopted an amendment that has eliminated the unfavorable amendment adopted in the subcommittee. We must bear in mind that the excise mark as such serves as a legalization function. Putting a banner on a product would convey incorrect information that excise duty had been paid, and it would not have been so. So it was a good thing that the committee didn't take the record. In addition, recalling the most important provisions contained in the draft, it should be noted that the Act introduces an electronic circulation of delivery documents for products exempt from excise duty and products taxed at zero rate. The electronic form of this document will certainly improve the process of movement of products. The project, in line with the aim of the designers, also provides details and interpretations of the rules, removes the doubts that have arisen following organisational changes in the tax administration. Namely, after the introduction of the National Tax Administration, there were legal gaps concerning the decision-making on excise duty collection and movement of excise goods. The project eliminates these doubts and indicates the competent tax authorities e.g. to rule on the refund of excise duties on intra-Community supplies and exports of excise goods or on the basis of the applicant. The project abolishes the mandatory obligation to convoy excise goods so far. The decision to convoy will be taken by the head of the customs and treasury office, as it was before the introduction of the National Tax Administration. We also consider it a positive feature of the project to be the rules on losses in the production of beer and wine products. Here, the principle of natural losses already applied in EU legislation has been adopted and the principle of calculating interest on excise arrears has been clearly established. Of course, the project deserves particular attention from the tax preferences for natural gas, both CNG and LNG, which are intended to drive internal combustion engines. The liquefied LNG gas, mainly used in passenger cars, is already subject to tax relief. The use of preferences should be assessed very well also in the case of so-called. heavy CNG gas used e.g. in public transport. This gas is one of the most ecological motor fuels, hence its use, especially in cities, will certainly reduce the degree of smoke and smog. Let me remind you that it is already used in certain cities, regardless of the fact that it was subject to excise duty. We hope that this will be extended, and this reduction in excise duty will encourage its wider use. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My club supports this project at this stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. One and a half minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u164	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I wanted to share with the High House such a remark that it is rare that the Law and Justice colleagues share their comments on the amendments tabled in the Sejm. In the Senate, it can be done more often. This includes: that cigarette excise duty in duty free shops. In this respect, it was shown how this levy, the excise duty on which the exemption is in this area in the shop, would increase costs on the part of businesses, but we should make the rules friendly to all entrepreneurs. And it is definitely important that if there is an amendment made by the Civic Platform in terms of eliminating the issue fee, i.e. an increase in fuel price from 1 January this year. at gas stations, the famous canister... In this respect, we also urge a fellow Member from the Law and Justice to support, because it will be a good direction and it will not draw money out of the taxpayer's pocket, while you boast about tax sealing. Question to the Minister: Which of the 30 taxes levied since 2015 [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will eliminate the state - brag that you are sealing the system - so you will give another relief to the citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u165	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paweł Cybulski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u166	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to answer that question, but I'm probably not gonna answer completely, because I'm a little surprised that we have 30 new danins and taxes. I'll check it out. Of course, in writing, if your Marshal permits, I will answer your question in very detail. [[Good.]] I would like this to be a very precise, very detailed response, which will undoubtedly close the discussion on this subject, because it seems very unlikely to me what I am hearing right now. Of course, I would like to thank you for the discussion in the committee so far regarding the draft excise amendments. Thank you so much for such greater unanimity. Even the Member here pointed out that there was more unanimity in this case. I'm very happy for you. This is very important primarily for society, especially for those who want to breathe fresh air in Poland. I'm sure we're doing a lot on our part when it comes to these environmental activities when it comes to the activities of the Ministry of Finance. We very much want to support all these environmental measures to help from the tax side. As regards the issue of excise duty bands in free zones, it seems to me that there has been a misunderstanding here, but I also think that this misunderstanding will be resolved in some further period, and that is because our intention was primarily to protect those products which are in free zones, not to cover them with additional excise duties or additional excise duties, in general. So that wasn't the goal here at all, and that wasn't the idea. But, of course, we have given up on this because there are no such innovative solutions throughout the European Union. Therefore, we are waiting for some common solutions, and I think that they will be soon. And we care, as I said earlier, more about securing excise duties... securing those products that are in duty free zones. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Andrzej Nobletta.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It turns out that in very important matters for Poland - because tax revenue is the state budget, and excise tax revenue is the second largest revenue - we can find consensus here. I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs that have been strongly involved in discussing this project at the level of the parliamentary debate, at the level of the Permanent Sub-Committee for the monitoring of the tax system, later in the next debate at the level of the Finance Commission. The amendment tabled by the opposition was accepted and, as we have heard, the government has accepted this amendment. So that, Madam President, sometimes it is worth changing beautifully and taking good changes. And I wanted to thank all the clubs for getting involved. We have two more amendments here. The Finance Commission will immediately proceed with their examination and I think we will adopt a good excise duty law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u169	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws (prints No. 2638 and 2727). I would very much like to ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws in print No 2727. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 5 July this year. Draft law in print No 2638 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading. The Commission meeting was held on 6 July. carried out the first reading and considered the same bill. High Izbo! The draft amendment of the Act resolves interpretation doubts concerning administrative procedures related to the granting of water law consents and the raising of fees for water services. The proposal also proposes to reduce the formalities related to administrative procedures relating to water law agreements and commitments. The draft law will exclude maritime authorities from the obligation to pay tolls for the exploitation of precious goods in the context of the protection of the seashore and the maintenance/deepening of the waterways. The obligation to protect the seashore and to maintain/ deepen the waterways arises from legislation and maritime authorities should not be charged for such activities. The fees for water services will not be charged if the amount fixed by the Polish Waters or the mayor, mayor or president of the city does not exceed 20 PLN. In such cases, there will be no obligation to send information on the amount of the fee to operators. The amount of PLN 20 was adopted as a threshold for cost-effectiveness of sending correspondence on information on the amount of the fee. By 31 December 2020, water users will have to make a statement to the Polish Waters on the basis of which fees for water services will be fixed. A large proportion of water-service plants measure the quantities of water and waste water entering or entering water. The solution adopted will reduce the possible interference of Polish Waters in the activities carried out by the plants and reduce the burden that would entail, among others, the burden. with water management control at the premises. The new rules will also ensure transparency of the activities of Polish Waters when calculating the fee for water services and providing information to establishments in this respect. The amendment of the Act also adds a provision which will result in the submission of one dossier, to one organizational unit of Polish Waters, in the scope of projects which simultaneously carry out activities requiring water law permits and water law applications respectively. The introduction of the provision will foster coordination of actions concerning a single investment purpose, the implementation of which currently requires the application of two separate procedures carried out by separate organisational units of Polish Waters. The amendment of the Act will also remove the obligation to publish in the local press information on the initiation of proceedings for the issue of a water permit. After the changes the proceedings will be shortened and the obligations of the State Water Farm Polskie will be reduced, which conducts many administrative procedures on water permits. And further - banning the introduction of rainwater into groundwater and banning the introduction of rainwater containing substances particularly harmful to water equipment. The amendment of the Act will allow entities that have contracts with Polish Waters to continue contracts without having to carry out another tender, will remove the obligation to have water permits in case of temporary locating, up to 180 days, construction facilities in areas particularly threatened by flooding. Amendments of an editorial and legislative nature were tabled during the work on the project. The Commission adopted without objection a report on the draft law. High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I request the adoption of the committee's report in print 2727. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Zaremba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to present the club's position regarding the amendment of the Water Law Act. The reform of water management in Poland, which was carried out by the Sejm's adoption of the new Water Law Act of 20 July 2017, was a necessity resulting from many years of experience in the fragmentation of competences - the separation between the various organisational units of both government and local government administration - in this area. Such a system hindered the creation of a genuine water management system for the country's water resources. The creation of the National Water Farm of Poland enabled them to assume responsibility for the entire water management in Poland. This will in the future avoid the situation that occurred during the floods in 2010, when it was difficult to determine who was responsible for a given section of the flood shaft due to ongoing disputes of competence and the number of administrations that had only a section of water management competence. Two judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union have been completed by the new Water Law. The condition for the European Commission to mobilise funding for flood-related investments has been met. At the moment, there are no infringement procedures related to the lack of transposition of European law or its inadequate transposition in the field of water management. It is worth noting that the arrears left by the previous government in this area were so great that they threatened with real financial sanctions for Poland. The analysis of the application of the Water Law Act from 1 January 2018 showed the possibility of improving the administrative formalities related to administrative procedures concerning water regulations, ensuring a more efficient system of fees for water services and facilitating the management of real estate by the Polish Waters. We have therefore proposed a number of amendments, and in particular: by 31 December 2020, water users will have to make statements to the Polish Waters on the basis of which fees for water services will be set. A large proportion of water-service plants measure the quantities of water and waste water entering water or land. The solution will reduce the possible intervention of Polish Waters in the activities carried out by the plants and reduce the burden that would involve water management control at the premises. The new rules will also ensure transparency of the activities of Polish Waters when calculating the fee for water services and providing information to establishments in this respect. The fees for water services will not be charged if its height, as determined by the Polish Waters or the Mayor, Mayor or Mayor of the City, does not exceed 20 PLN. In such cases, there will be no obligation to send information on the amount of the fee to operators. The amount of PLN 20 was adopted as a threshold for cost-effectiveness of sending correspondence on information on the amount of the fee. It was also proposed to remove the obligation to have a water permit in the case of temporary locating, up to 180 days, construction facilities in areas particularly at risk of flooding. It is also proposed to add a provision which will result in the obligation to submit a single dossier to one organizational unit of Polish Waters for projects which simultaneously carry out activities requiring appropriate water law permits, as well as to allow entities which have concluded contracts with Polish Waters to continue contracts without having to conduct a tender. Given the objective of the proposed amendment to Water Law, which is undoubtedly to reduce administrative formalities, I declare on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an amendment aimed at facilitating investment in the construction of new water equipment. The amendments also extend the time limits for making declarations by water users and clarify the remaining proposed regulations. In conclusion, the draft law contains legal solutions that will be received positively by water users, reduce bureaucratic barriers and reduce the duration of administrative proceedings. Therefore, this amendment with amendments deserves to be adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u173	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u174	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of Water Law is something we could call powdering something that was corrupted at the very beginning. The fact that Water Law is being introduced in great chaos, with many mistakes, we could see when Water Law was being processed. Already then we signalled the need for a lot of amendments, unfortunately none of these amendments were accepted by the PiS. As a result, an amendment is presented, which in some way cleans and corrects what was corrupted during the process over the entire bill, but we are not sure that these are all amendments. In addition, the Member presenting the position of the PiS confirms this because he is proposing further amendments to the revised provisions. Therefore, seeing irregularities, seeing the lack of integrity in the conduct of the Water Law project, in April this year. we have submitted a request to the Marshal of the Sejm for the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the reliability, regularity and legality of the actions of public authorities undertaken in connection with the creation of the law and the procedure for the Law of 20 July 2017 on Water Law. This is necessary. This Committee of Investigation is necessary in order to clarify many procedural issues and irregularities which were identified at the time of the adoption of this law. Today we are conducting correspondence with Marshal Mazurek, who, after 3 months from the date of the application, sends us his comments, indicating that in principle our application is correct, but does not consider it appropriate to check the whole procedure. We're holding up our motion. Of course, we have responded to your Marshal's letter and we expect that such a request for a Committee of Investigation will be processed by the High House. We are convinced that there has been an irregularity in the adoption of this law. Of course, one of the basic elements is art. 36, which is unknown how and by whom it was introduced. On the basis of the provisions of this article Polish entrepreneurs can be discriminated against, eliminated from the market, and there is no author of this record, no one admits to it. We therefore consider that this should be clarified. The mere examination of the present law, which we are talking about here, raises a lot of doubts, because the original Water Law Act was addressed to four committees, from which a subcommittee was established, which worked in detail on the regulations. Today, this amendment was sent to only one committee, and in fact the people in this committee did not participate in the work of the subcommittee. Therefore, at the committee meeting which adopted this amendment, hardly anyone spoke, there was no substantive voice. This amendment has been amended in half an hour, and today we have an effect because the PiS Member is proposing amendments. All this could be done at the right time and in the right order. We recognise that it is necessary to explain to the public what is wrong with this Water Law, all the more so because we know very well that e.g. entrepreneurs from Warmia and Mazury do not have answers to their questions about fees and taxes, it is still suspended somewhere. This amendment does not make any changes in this respect, nor does it amend Article. 36. Therefore, and taking into account our proposal to set up the Committee of Investigation, I make a proposal on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to reject a draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u175	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws, print no. 2638 and 2727. Water law has been in force for almost a year, and its benefits are in fact used primarily by the authorities established by it by the State Water Farm Polskie. At the time of the adoption of this law, we pointed out that not only is it a restrictive law that imposes too many obligations on operators using water and property, but it is also a law which favours Polish waters so much that on the one hand Polish waters become passive, do little or nothing in terms of rational use of such a national treasure as water and land around it, and on the other hand, those entities that would like to benefit from this good for the public, create unacceptable conditions. Here I will give a concrete example of the Swine Porba and Mucharski Lake Water Tank. It's supposed to be open by now, but it's still not available. Why is this happening? The Polish Waters themselves indicate that one of the reasons is that there are no appropriate implementing acts enabling the Mucharski Lake and the land around it to be made available to investors. Minister, is this true? Can such an explanation be accepted from Polish Waters? The Polish waters offered to the municipalities Mucharz and Stryszów a contract to lend land for public purposes, in which they not only exploit their monopoly position, but even force the communes' authorities to unfavorably dispose of the property of these municipalities. They want to compel the wójtów to waive the tax on all properties at the disposal of Polish Waters and located in these municipalities for the land that the municipalities wish to use for public purposes. Let me remind you that this is the case of a water power plant, which is about to start and from which the tax for one of the municipalities amounts to several hundred thousand PLN. Imagine such a situation, that on these tens of hectares around the reservoir, where today there are chakras, hotels and other facilities for recreation and recreation will be built. It will be a gold mine for both Polish Waters as well as for municipalities in which the property is located. The Polish waters want the municipalities not to charge tax for this. It's just an outrageous situation. Should the municipalities give it up? It's as if Warsaw gave up the tax on hotels and other facilities. What conclusions do we draw from this situation? Such that this truly more favourable legislation than the original Water Law does not solve the fundamental problems of water management. First of all, the Polish Waters are still a monopoly who does not really matter with anyone and with nothing. We therefore support these solutions, which facilitate economic activity and reduce the cost of life of Poles as Kukiz. This is what we are doing with the processed change, which we are in favour of. At the same time, we note that through the creation of the new Water Law a new situation has emerged also with regard to employees of Polish Waters. We are asking that, in agreements between the Ministry of the Environment and the Solidarity of Polish Waters, the salary increases be finally paid to them. First this is not provided for in the budget of Polish Waters, and now, i.e. After the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping has taken over this institution, the Minister tries to withdraw from his promises by stating that there is no means to do so. And probably in this element he is right that there are no resources, but how are they supposed to be, since Polish Waters leave specialists and Polish Waters do not earn money. Increases are necessary and the cost for the state is small - about PLN 30 million. Minister! When will you meet your obligations? When there are no workers who care about the airlocks, the culverts, other water facilities to protect people from flooding? When that flood comes along, you'll be looking for means to secure it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will continue the topic discussed by my predecessor, because it seems to me that today, when the Water Law is amended, it is worth talking a little bit more about the condition of this individual, which is to carry out all the water management tasks. Of course, the government's submission of amendments to this law is related to the legislative sloppyness that we saw last year. This law, mutually contradictory, mutually exclusive in many places, very heavy on Poles, striking them in their pockets, was badly prepared, was very badly conducted. There are reasonable suspicions that the law may have been broken, and therefore there is a request for a committee of inquiry. This is a law that hits Poles very hard, at Polish entrepreneurs. These changes that you have proposed do not, even to a small extent, implement all these demands. The Minister assured us two weeks ago that she would be in Giżycko at the meeting of the local government committee on the changes and consequences of the new Water Law, for example. the tourism industry in the case of warmińsko-mazurskie communes, but not only. I'm afraid I have to say you weren't there. The members of the PiS did not bother to attend the meeting of this committee either. I think there were only two of them. They wouldn't speak. They wouldn't speak. You could then listen to the dramatic situation of the tourism sector, in which the season lasts only 5 months, how hard you hit it. You could also see that what is commonly said is true, that the new staff of Polish Vodka are extremely incompetent. I must say that listening to President Dacy, I am convinced that he is an extremely incompetent person, who should not be entrusted with any property at all, because he is absolutely unfit for it, and by the way, he is a fully arrogant person. Besides, there are very strong opinions about these HRs. Many employees of Polish Vodka write to us various types of correspondence, ask us to intervene in this matter, and therefore we make interpelations. They question that you have chosen these directors to break the law that was adopted last year. Of course, I don't want to throw it unjustly, so I'm going to give you a few examples of the qualifications that the director of the RZGW in Gliwice, Mr Łukasz Lange, a colleague of the president of Dacy, has. Besides, he has many colleagues in PiS because he is a member of the Board of Częstochowa PiS. Employees say: an incompetent person without qualifications does not meet the requirements in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 Water Law Act. Besides, similar opinions can be heard about the director in Wroclaw, in Szczecin, probably more of these cases. In one of the correspondence I received from Polish Waters employees, people write directly that they feel deceived. Everything's been dismantled, there's chaos no one can control. Old workers are getting less and less. Who can escape this Titanic? Others say, for example, that the water management company Polskie Water became a kind of pillar of the so-called. It's a change of pace. Persons not meeting the criteria have been appointed. You wanted to make sons for your Misiewicz, but this bill was really about something completely different. The aim was to bring about a new order, reform, and effective water management. I must also say, Minister, that the employees are very happy to write about your activities, about audits, about other types of recommendations, they say that in Lublin some activities are carried out on a large scale, so please check all these issues. If you were in Giżycko, you would listen to this hundreds of people, representatives or local governments, whether it's the tourism industry, you would know what the problem is, how much this bill has affected people. And then you'd probably expand this amendment, which was so much brought by the participants of this meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since you have not done so, I will allow myself, in accordance with my commitment made during the committee's work, to make a number of amendments, which at least part of these problems of people using water bodies, problems in the tourism industry to solve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Water Law Act in print No 2638 and the report of Print Commission No 2727 together with the justifications was to move forward, that was to resolve the interpretative doubts concerning administrative proceedings related to the granting of water law consent and the collection of fees for water services. It is proposed to remove the obligations associated with the announced procedure, to enable entities that have concluded contracts with the Polish Waters, to continue contracts without having to tender, etc. He was quoting if he read all those records I'm not going to. I come to the conclusion, to the point where we should consider, which once in this House, we come to the idea of the entity created by the Polish Water Act. I think it's one more time today. And as the Member speaking on behalf of the PiS Club said in his speech, the point is that everything should be organized and that, in the event of a difficult situation or a natural disaster, we should not look for who is responsible for what. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Now, if such waters were to occur, such disasters as in 1997, in 2001, in 2007, in 2010, God forbid, that would be a disaster. After all, all these comments, all these suggestions, all these raised topics, which concern the functioning of Polish Waters, require immediate resolution. I am not saying that an immediate solution, because who operates for several years in local government or government administration, knows that certain processes will not occur overnight, but it is unacceptable that labour matters are not settled for a year. What do you expect or expect? Who's gonna do that? Is it gonna do it on its own? If there are no competent people in management positions, whether it's from one party or another, sooner or later the subject will break. Situations and programmes will not be implemented because employees have a sense of duty, but the managers have no knowledge. And these examples that my previous speakers gave are talking about it. They don't have the authority. Minister, we're a club. in favour of all those activities which simplify procedures, facilitate operation, shorten the way to obtaining water law permits, where this is not necessarily possible by other means. But who's gonna do it? They will not do this, as life shows during this year, those staffs that you have placed in the Polish Waters. And maybe today is the moment. Since there are comments to the legislative process, it can actually hit the chest, suspend this project, I will not say it any more: throw it out because it is human work, and it must be respected always, or it can accept at least some of the amendments that are tabled. Well, if the whole legislative process in the committee, where we send these amendments, is limited to voting so far, then the draft which is submitted, together with the amendments of the PiS, will become a legal act. The club's position will take place during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u181	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? [[Me too.]] You're welcome. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The changes that have been proposed to the Water Law Act are undoubtedly necessary, but they do not significantly improve what is happening in the Polish Waters. How are the tasks carried out? In fact, they're mostly unrealized. I am very surprised to see that Mrs Paluch, who was the great initiator of this project, was absent from the Parliamentary Chamber at first reading and is not present at second reading either. [[Voice from the room: She's gone.]] I have a question about the riverbed renovations. It's about getting rid of the bushes. It's about getting rid of the bushes. It's about getting rid of the bushes. If there's a lot of water at the moment, it's gonna put the flow in jeopardy in general. What are the plans for Lower Silesia for this year with regard to the task of eliminating these bushes and namulis and preparing rivers for a greater flow of water? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u183	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it so happens that I chair the Sejm committee of local government which organized a meeting with entrepreneurs in Giżycko. This was the third meeting that actually answered the question of what the bill is. The most interested entrepreneurs in this law from the region clearly state that it is poorly prepared. It's even worse with the regulation. I want to say this because, ladies and gentlemen, tourism entrepreneurs feel deceived. What else was discussed during the negotiations and consultations, and what did they get on paper in the regulation. You've fooled entrepreneurs, you've become unbelievable. It just needs to be improved and changed. Hence, you will be referred to our committee's dissertation to restore the original version of the findings as you agreed, as you said, in the regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about Art. 264, concerning the management of non-Polish Vodka real estate. Currently, land on the banks of water reservoirs, in the vast majority intended for recreational and tourist purposes, is leased in three-year fixed-term contracts and is expected to be extended for further three-year periods if there are no negative indications. And here's my question: Will not imposing an obligation on the Polish Waters to obtain the Minister's consent for any extension of the lease beyond the 3-year period, subject to the need to submit an application containing an estimate of the value by the valuer, significantly restrict the use of water reservoirs remaining on the Polish Waters Board for recreational and tourist purposes? I am asking as chairman of both the Parliamentary Group for. Tourism, as well as the Parliamentary Group on Inland shipping. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First question: When will you meet the agreement concluded in 2016 with the former employees of KZGW and RZGW, who were to receive PLN 850 per month by virtue of this agreement from 1 January 2017? In this connection, I have a second question: When will you restore the allowances to the employees you took from the local authorities so that they will not lose as of January 1st and receive the salaries they charged in December? You've averaged your wages by about 1,000. zł. Finally, the most important question related to the operation of Polish Waters: When will Polish Waters start carrying out their statutory tasks? I want to tell you that there is no maintenance of watercourses, the shafts are unslashed, the ditches have no maintenance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] very much, radically limited the capacity of these leaks. It's hard to really imagine what would happen if there was a flood.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 8 years old...]] [[No, it cleans up every year, even twice a year.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Now, now it is clean.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Madame, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to remain calm in this Chamber. Ma'am Małgorzata Navelek, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Polish Waters there is organizational chaos and people working there are looking forward to the promised increases. You promised a raise. Where are the raises? The workers have been deceived. What is the situation in the Polish Waters at the moment? Please provide reliable information here in this House. How many people have you fired? How many were employed? There were supposed to be extra jobs. Where are the extra jobs? They've been waiting and looking forward to it since the beginning of this year. Tell me what a change of structure has brought to the citizens, because somehow you can't see the effects of your work at all. What criteria should be met by employees in the positions of presidents and vice-presidents? Do you know that in such important management positions you employ amateurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pisiewicz? It's actually dangerous. I can give you an example.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u191	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u192	Don't laugh, miss. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You may have been worried for eight years, you had time.]] ...because you hired the director of the MP's office, who had nothing to do with the water, unless in the tap and he knows nothing, and he's the vice president. Vice President! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u193	Thank you. Please, Mr Truskolaski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with Mr Maciejewski: you have deceived this bill of entrepreneurs, but not only entrepreneurs. You also tricked ordinary citizens, ordinary citizens, because there wasn't supposed to be a rise in water prices, and these increases after the introduction of this Water Law law, the first part, are. I have one more question. The Member has already referred to this here. Who works in Polish Waters? Are these specialists or party nominators? Who's working, who's in charge? Is that what this bill was for, so there'll be more seats for your party Misiewiczs? Or was that all you changed, turned the entire Water Law bill upside down for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u195	Thank you, sir. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Minister Anna Moscow.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all your comments and comments, but first of all thank you for judging this amendment positively, because I did not hear a substantive discussion about it, but only positive voices, for which I would like to thank you. With regard to the individual issues raised by you today, I hope that there is also a thread in this proposal for a committee explaining the state's inaction with regard to the adoption of Water Law earlier, because the Water Directive is nothing new. This is not a new document. This should be passed over the years. You were 8 years old. It seems like it's time enough to do that. Probably wouldn't be in a hurry. I hope that this is also the question that you have addressed. [[You've been in charge for three years and that's enough.]] We will be happy to know why this has not been passed through this time. I would also remind you that the introduction of Water Law, or actually the failure to introduce Water Law, would entail large penalties for Poland. [[You're not a politician. You're an official.]] The same is true for the nitrate programme, which is part of the water package. Let me remind you, this nitrate program came in recently. 2014 - Judgment of the Court of Justice. If we had not implemented this programme, Poland would have paid 312 thousand for each day by state inaction. Euro - per day, flat-rate - plus interest. [[About.]] I think this is important too, and it should probably be included in this package of explanations if we are already approaching this topic in this way. The Swine Poręba thread. He asked me to mention this. The information provided today is out of date. You mentioned tax. They say we're actually forcing our uncles to exempt us from paying this tax. The case is out of date because we have a court order from three days ago, which indicates that the tax is undue. I would also remind you that we offered free lending to the uncles, so I do not see these excessive burdens on the side of the wojews. I've been seeing them myself. I've been negotiating. They weren't dissatisfied, so I don't know where that voice came from. Check the tax case, because it's from a few days ago. As for the financial situation of Polish Waters, it would probably be much easier in Polish Waters, if not for the fact that we need to buy new equipment and preserve equipment, which should be transferred along with tasks by the marshals. These are erase equipment. The Małopolskie Voivodeship is the leader in this topic: it passed on the equipment with bailouts. [[Greater Poland has given everything. You didn't do anything anyway.]] If we did not have to make such investments and use the equipment that was purchased from public funds, among others. with voivodship environmental funds, it would probably be much easier to plan these financial matters on an ongoing basis. The same applies to workers who often do not have work equipment because it has not been transferred and with the transfer they have been entrusted with tasks. So I encourage them to dialogue with the marshals, to encourage them to cooperate. They should have done it by January. It's a lucky July, and we still don't have... I will not multiply these examples from voivodships, you can verify this at regional level. I'll also be grateful for your support on this subject. It would probably also be easier in Polish Waters if we didn't have to fix broken investments such as Lake Jamno, and many other issues where prosecutorial proceedings are already in place, and we could start with a clean account. As far as Giżycko is concerned, Mr Giżycko, I did not promise to be personally. I told you we were gonna be here, and the director of our department was here, so that's what we did. There was also the President of Polish Waters. This meeting wasn't the first. Previously we had several meetings and trainings with entrepreneurs, so this dialogue was really a continued dialogue, not a dialogue launched by you. Nevertheless, thank you for the committee. Let me remind you that this is not the subject of the bill, it is the regulation. As we have promised, the subject of this regulation will be addressed, so there is no point in prolonging this discussion all the time. At the same time, in the course of audits - of which you asked to mention, say that I like them, and that is true - we have checked that it is in this famous voivodship that more than 80% operators have illegal bridges and conducts water fences. I understand that they are outraged by the new Water Law, because it imposes new obligations and at the same time enforces something that they should be doing for a long time. I'm not going to refer to this personal tidings you've been giving today, because I don't think it's the right plenum to talk about specific names. I can declare that people working in Polish Waters, on individual boards, are competent persons and carry out tasks properly and at the same time with proper supervision. For our part, wherever we see irregularities, people are mentioned, you know it, on the up-to-date, as you say, people from us. These people are also exchanged. We exchange everyone - because of competence, experience and tasks, not other criteria, and this is a declaration that I can make with all responsibility. As far as labour matters are concerned, I would ask that you do not interfere with our dialogue with the trade unions, which I judge positively. We do not say that there will be no raises in the Polish Waters. There'll be raises. On the other hand, we do not agree with the narrative that we should all be equal. I'm sure you have to make up for it, because these are years of neglect -- not these last two years, just many years. Most of these actors have not had increases since 2009 and we agree that the whole water management and the whole water management sector require better reward, but we do not agree with the narrative that everything is equal. This is no longer an office, this is a company where we care about indicators, efficiency and remuneration we also treat as a tool for achieving this efficiency. And it is with trade unions that we are preparing new financial solutions. As far as the price of water is concerned, I'd be happy to take this up. Compared with the previous year - from the waterworks - water prices increased: 19%. The average increase currently, when water and sewage charges regulate Polish waters, does not exceed 3%. I think it's gonna take a little more reflection. But this given, this simple number shows that the regulator has fulfilled its role, makes decisions on an ongoing basis - at this point in time It's over 2,000. the decision, still about 500 decisions are subject to further dialogue - he talks with local governments, captures these situations when inadequate waterworks determine these amounts. I would like to remind you that the applications are still submitted by waterworks and that the waterworks decide what the remuneration of employees is, that the waterworks decide about the clearance of employees, that the waterworks decide how much money they spend on their fixed costs. The Polish waters, acting within the scope of the regulation, indicate these situations when they can react, while they are unable to respond to the long-term negligence and ambiguities that operate in certain entities. This is where you go back to the local government. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the reduction from 19% to 3% of water tariffs is an undoubted success... [[Elevation.]] ...the first half of the year of action of Polish Waters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u197	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Brynus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't know if you've seen this deal, I suspect you haven't seen it, because it doesn't say anything. only about late taxes. Poland's waters simply, knowing that the municipalities were really entitled to this tax, secured themselves, even though it was from the municipalities' side that it was a request to the court to determine the case, secured by the fact that the municipalities were dropping the tax for the years 2012 and 2017. But what's more, ma'am, Polish Waters demanded in exchange for the loan of the areas of resignation by these municipalities from the tax for years from now forward, for the period of the loan, from all properties located in the municipality and available to the Polish Waters. This is an outrageous situation. It's like we asked the President of Warsaw to give up the land tax, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will be built e.g. hotels. This is simply unacceptable and it needs to be clarified. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u199	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle towards the government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws. The proposal for a procedated amendment of the Act resolves interpretation doubts concerning administrative procedures related to the granting of water law consents and the charging of water services. The proposal also proposes to reduce the formalities related to administrative procedures relating to water law agreements and commitments. The solutions recommended in the law consist of: 1. The establishment that the fees for water services will not be paid if the amount fixed by the Polish Waters or the mayor, mayor or president of the city does not exceed 20 PLN. In such cases, there will be no obligation to send information on the amount of the fee to operators. The amount of PLN 20 was adopted as a threshold for cost-effectiveness of sending correspondence on information on the amount of the fee. 2. Enable entities that have contracts with Polish Waters to continue contracts without having to tender. 3. Elimination of the obligation to have a water law permit for temporary locating, i.e. up to 180 days, construction works in areas with special flood risk. 4. Excluding maritime authorities from the obligation to pay mining fees in the context of the protection of the seashore and the maintenance/deepening of the waterways. The obligation to protect the seashore and to maintain/ deepen the waterways arises from legislation and maritime authorities should not be charged for such activities. 5. Adding a provision, which will result in the obligation to submit one dossier to one organizational unit of Polish Vodka, in the scope of projects which simultaneously involve activities requiring water law permits and water law applications. The introduction of the provision will foster coordination of actions concerning a single investment purpose, the implementation of which currently requires the application of two separate procedures carried out by separate organisational units of Polish Waters. 6. Elimination of obligations related to the publication in the local press of information on the initiation of proceedings for the issue of a water licence. After the changes the procedures will be shortened and the obligations of the State Water Farm of Poland will be reduced, which conducts many administrative procedures on water permits. 7. Prohibition of introduction of rainwater into groundwater and prohibition of introduction of rainwater containing substances which are particularly harmful to water equipment. The amendments made to the Water Law Act will benefit from administrative procedures related to the granting of water legislation and the collection of fees for water services, as well as reduced formalities related to administrative procedures relating to water law consents and promises. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u201	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act (prints No. 2672 and 2733). I would very much like to ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u202	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act 2672 and 2733. The Commission was sitting on 13 July 2018, working on this law, which increases flexibility and gives a choice as regards the use of pig marking methods by pig holders and reduces the burden for owners of farms, equidae owners for which identification documents have been issued outside the territory of the Polish State. The proposed law will have a positive impact on the activities of small and medium-sized livestock operators and reduce the administrative burden associated with the registration of animals. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has unanimously adopted this law and I ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act 2672 and 2733. The animal registration system is a very important issue in combating infectious animal diseases. At a time when we entered the European Union, the implementation of Union law in this area for bovine, ovine and caprine animals was one of the necessary conditions for us to be able to apply effectively for the status of a country officially free from certain infectious diseases, e.g. bovine brucellosis, bovine tuberculosis, ovine and caprine brucellosis. In recent years, in connection with, for example, ASF, these obligations also apply to pigs. The review of the existing provisions of the Act indicates the need for certain changes aimed at increasing flexibility, simplification and reduction of administrative burdens, while, of course, complying with EU rules. An important amendment is intended to address the issue of pigs at the headquarters of flocks located in the protection, surveillance or other restricted area. The rules currently in force require pig holders to notify the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture of the increase or decrease in the number of the herd and slaughter of pigs within 24 hours of the occurrence. However, due to difficulties in meeting this 24-hour deadline, it is proposed to extend it from 24 hours to 2 days. At the same time, this deadline will not apply to cases of pig births. The possibility of marking the pigs until the 30th day of birth shall be left here and, in the event of leaving the herd's seat within 30 days of the date of birth, no later than before the animals leave the herd's establishment, and a period of 2 days shall be introduced for the notification of the marking of the pigs born there, calculated from the date of the marking. Significantly, the 2-day notification deadline does not apply to cases of increase or decrease in the number of herds and slaughter of pigs prior to the designation of restricted areas. In such cases, even if during the course of the 7-day notification period the area concerned has been designated as a protection, surveillance or other restricted area, that 7-day period shall not be replaced by a 2-day period. The proposed amendments should be defined as ordering and fulfilling the obligations of pigs-holders in restricted areas. Another amendment concerns the reduction of the burden on equidae owners. This is a change at the request of the Polish Horse Breeders Association. There will be no obligation for a translator to submit a certified part of the identification document. This will reduce the cost of registration of this document. The proposed amendments will also increase flexibility in pig labelling methods - i.e. an earring or tattoo, and, in the case of an earring, any bivalve molluscs, as well as clarification and unambiguous indications on the handling of loss or damage to the earring in respect of different animal species. The obligation for pig holders to notify the Agency's manager of the additional marking of the pig is repealed. This is another good step to reduce administrative burdens. At the request of the cattle-breeding organisations, the obligation to keep an inventory of the animals in the herd and to transfer it to the agency was abolished. This meant replicating the information already collected. As regards ovine and caprine animals, it is left to make lists of ovine and caprine animals, but as a result of having a centralised database, the obligation to transmit the result of that census to the Agency is abolished. Another simplification is the exclusion of trade fair operators from the obligation to keep pig registration books, as this also implies duplication of this information. Finally, it is proposed to amend the criminal rules, which are generally beneficial for entities covered by the amended law and remove interpretation doubts. Given that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on livestock maintenance and marketing activities while ensuring the effectiveness of the tools needed to combat infectious animal diseases, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project you presented at the agricultural committee meeting concerns the amendment of the Animal Identification and Registration Act, print No. 2672. As the Member said earlier, it really concerns the four most important things. One is indeed a change in the time limit for the notification of animals, but mostly for pigs - this time is extended. The second amendment concerns the marking, i.e. the owner of the pigs may decide for himself to choose the marking. Maybe it was tattooing, but it could also be wearing an earring. Until now, it was mandatory to wear an earring. The Polish Horse Breeders' Association requested that the record on the necessity of translating one of the parts of the horse's passport be removed. It's supposed to improve his performance. The fourth provision concerns the voluntary transmission of lists of individual species. Indeed, this is often a flexibility and realization of possibilities, among others. lengthening of time associated with the notification of animals. There's only one question. We talked at the committee meeting about the inspections that are responsible for animal health checks... In a situation where the ASF epidemic is expanding, it is important to determine the origin of the animal, which is to actually read the data from the earring or the tattoo. So far, even visually... When veterinarians enter a large group of pigs, they see whether these pigs are earrings or not, i.e. whether they are known from a given herd. But when the pigs didn't have an earring, it was known to date that either this earring fell, or maybe it was an unknown pig, for example, bought by a trader. In this situation, the doctor must enter a large group of animals, catch this pig and see if she has a tattoo, because then he must read, determine whether it really is a marked pig. This raises doubts and creates difficulties in carrying out these operations, which, in my opinion, in a situation where inspections have a lot of work and are really fighting African swine fever, can be a kind of difficulty and burden for these inspections. The Civic Platform Club will, of course, vote in favour of this law, because they are mostly provisions that improve and facilitate work, reduce the bureaucracy associated with breeding and monitoring, reporting to the ARiMR. The Civic Platform Club will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u207	Thank you very much, Member. And here you are, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System Act. I am pleased that the Ministry has taken into account the requests, requests and petitions made by farmers, resulting in this project. As indicated, the aim of the Act is primarily to reduce administrative rigour and burdens on farmers, especially pig farmers, who continue to lose to ASF. We're still running out of farmers. The draft provides for an extension of the time limit from 24 hours to 2 days for reporting to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture changes in the number of herds and slaughter of pigs in the herds in the protection, surveillance or other restricted area. At the same time, it is proposed to increase flexibility as regards the methods used for marking pigs, to repeal the obligation to notify the Agency of the fact of the additional marking of pigs, to abolish the obligation to carry out lists of bovine animals and to limit the scope of the information to which the lists will apply. In terms of reducing red tape and facilitating the lives of farmers, these are changes in the right direction, but, as I mentioned at the beginning, it is worth noting that they concern a smaller group of farmers. In accordance with the Internet Animal Identification and Registration System supervised by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture between December 2014 and May 2018. We've lost over 90,000. pig holdings, which means that more than 2 000 have been removed in the period of 3.5 years. farms per month. If the rate of liquidation continues to be the same in the following years, we will not have pig production in seven years. [[Pork chops.]] Only establishments which do not grow pigs and which produce pig meat on a mass scale will remain. This isn't fictional data. Just go to a randomly selected village to quickly find out that we will find one, maybe two, three such hosts, and that is assuming we will be lucky. Even worse is the situation with cattle farmers. In 42 months almost 120 thousand disappeared. holdings. We need to realise that the problem is very serious. The future of not only farmers but also almost 38 million Polish consumers depends on our actions, and above all the government's actions. The effectiveness of the measures taken is a prerequisite for our country's sovereignty and food security. The practice of hanging out with your hands is not effective. And you can see where that leads us. I mentioned that I am counting on the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, because it creates the country's agricultural policy. Today, it is often pointed out to the processing plants in foreign hands - they are made a scapegoat, guilty of the wrong situation, but it is both the government and the Members who allowed the sale of the plants, very often for proverbial gold. You could say, "Everyone has starch on their knees." 30 years ago, this principle may have worked out, but today, when we are a member of the European Union, we have a common market, an open road to world markets, as well as world markets have an open road to us, their actions, and, frankly, their absence, we are the most damaging to ourselves. What is our greatest task as Members is to create friendly citizens, to farmers in legislation, to remove barriers, to remove bureaucracy, to create conditions for development. Undoubtedly, the bill is a step in the right direction, but it is hard to resist the impression that it is a drop in the sea of needs. Of course, there is no doubt that this project should be supported, but we are hoping to speed up legislation in order to reduce barriers and accelerate, or actually allow the development of Polish agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Ewa Lieder and Mr Maliszewski made their statements in writing. One Member asked the question. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. And here you are, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz, 15, question. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As I said in my position just now, the bill goes in the right direction, we try to help in such a way that we reduce bureaucracy. However, in the committee we also talked about this danger of delayed response when ASF appears in the new area. How does the Ministry see this threat here in connection with the adoption of this law? The second question is also related to what I was talking about when I gave my position to the club. We see a dramatically decreasing number of pig farms and cattle. What ministry sees the possibility of stopping and reversing this trend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u211	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Simon Giżyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To answer the first question, I will say that there are no collisions or threats here, because all these specific issues are set against the proposed solutions by another act, very important and decisive in these matters, namely the Animal Disease Act. There's no collision here, it's all because of the laws on infectious diseases of animals completely protected. On the other hand, it is possible to answer the second question by the Member only in the framework of the work of the committee, discussion or special debate on this issue. It is not possible - due to the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the question - to answer in the context of another law or other specific issue, also concerning agricultural production, but in a completely different technical aspect, which makes agricultural production very easy for the owners in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u213	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u214	The rules currently in force require pig holders to notify the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture of the increase or reduction of the number of the herd and the slaughter of pigs within 24 hours of the announcement that the area concerned is protected, threatened or restricted. This is to be extended temporarily to two days, so that the farmer, for example. He bought an animal on Friday, had time to report it, of course, in a situation where it happened after the appointment of the W. areas. The project also abolishes the obligation: - to notify the Agency of the fact of the additional marking of the pig; - the establishment of a list of bovine animals; - the transmission to the agency of the results of the census of ovine and caprine animals; - and limits the scope of the information to which the list of pigs will apply. According to Art. 5 Council Directive 2008/71/EC of 15 July 2008 on the identification and registration of pigs must be marked without delay and, in any case, before leaving the holding, by means of ear tags or tattoos enabling the identification of the place of origin of the animals and making reference to any supporting documents. As the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber has pointed out, the disadvantage of marking pigs tattoos is sometimes poor legibility of tattoos, which may increase the likelihood of errors in control activities. The addition of this option is convenient for farmers, but at the same time it may cause difficulties for veterinarians when checking veterinary inspections. It is worth noting that, following the introduction of the bioinsurance requirement, the Chamber must carry out 500 000. checks within 3 years. However, we take into account the fact that for many farmers earring is a more common method. Breeders emphasize that the method of earring is most effective. It worked in Denmark, Holland or Great Britain. At the same time, however, there is a problem when the inspector is unable to determine whether the pig's earring has been lost within 24 hours. An unfair breeder can always say that, and there's no way to verify it. The National Veterinary and Medical Chamber also stressed that the obligation to carry out/submit lists of animals present at the herd premises gave the possibility to verify whether there was no discrepancy between the actual state of the animals on holdings and the information contained in the animal identification and registration system. However, for farmers, the abolition of this need is a positive simplification and eliminates unnecessary duplication of information. The problem reported by the Polish Horse Breeders Association was the poor quality of translations and sections of the identification document when the application for registration in the Register of equidae was issued by an entity from another Member State of the European Union. According to the Act, instead of translations, the information referred to in Article will have to be provided. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/262 of 17 February 2015 (e.g. It's a unique life number, species, gender, ointment, etc.), which is intended to reduce costs for breeders, but this information must be sufficiently well translated. Since these provisions aim to reduce the administrative burden on agricultural activities and do not eliminate health and bio-insurance requirements in any way, we are inclined to support them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u215	The PSL-UED Club sees the government's inability to fight and counter ASF and therefore repeatedly, claiming Polish farmers, proposed to change the approach of the agricultural department. Unfortunately, this project is not a viable attempt to remedy this situation. The amendment to the requirements for the registration of breeding animals on holdings will in no way improve the control of African swine fever. As you can see, the disease continues to spread and the loss of farmers continues to increase. Our ideas, suggestions and concrete proposals are constantly rejected. This project doesn't bring anything new. It doesn't make things any better. I remember perfectly how, at the end of last term, PiS MEPs were spitting ideas at the time, criticizing the rulers. Time has shown that these ideas simply did not have, and criticism served only to gain the support of farmers. Cheating comes out fast. Today, Polish farmers are asking when real action will take place, when they will receive real compensation, when the Minister of Agriculture will help them. However, not wanting to be accused of disturbing us, that whatever we're obstructing, our club will support this project, even though it doesn't improve the situation of farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u216	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 04 hours 15 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the social contributions of natural persons performing business activities on a smaller scale (prints 2675 and 2747). I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the social contributions of natural persons carrying on less-scale economic activities. The primary objective of this amendment is to adjust the burden borne by entrepreneurs on social security contributions to their financial capacity. The intention of the regulation is also to: develop entrepreneurship, stimulate professional activity, reduce so-called. the grey zone and improving the survival of entrepreneurs. One of the biggest fixed costs incurred by individuals engaged in low-income economic activities is social security contributions. Under the Social Insurance Act, these include compulsory pension, pension, accident and voluntary sickness insurance. According to the rules in force, the minimum amount of social security contributions for these entities in 2018 is PLN 843.45 per month. This level of social security contributions is an important factor affecting decisions to suspend or cease business. This draft law introduces reduced and proportionate to the income of social security contributions for individuals engaged in an individual business activity and having an annual income not exceeding 30 times the minimum wage. Entrepreneurs will be able to benefit from this solution for 3 years in the last 5 years. Additional conditions include operating for a minimum of 60 days in the previous calendar year in a taxable form other than a tax card, not doing other non-agricultural activities than economic activities in the previous calendar year - creators and artists, partners of personal companies, professionals, persons running schools - and not doing business for the former employer within 2 years of its commencement. This project minimises the administrative burden imposed on entrepreneurs. They will be obliged to declare the annual revenue at the beginning of the calendar year on a one-off basis. In addition, checks on the correctness of payment of contributions will take place without the participation of the entrepreneur, electronically, in relations between the Social Insurance Institution and the National Tax Administration. It can be estimated that the law will cover more than 170 thousand. entrepreneurs. A significant socio-economic impact of the draft law will be the abolition of the disproportionate burden on low-income entrepreneurs, among others. relating to seasonal activities. Such entrepreneurs should bear adequate, lower public-law burdens, which would be in line with the spirit of the constitutional principle of social justice. There will also be a reduction in the so-called. The gray zone. Although this phenomenon is difficult to measure, according to estimates of the Central Statistical Office about 600 thousand. entrepreneurs currently operate in the gray area. This bill directly affects only micro-entrepreneurs. Its impact is to reduce the burden of compulsory social security and make them dependent on income. This will first translate into an increase in the revenue of the target group. The number of micro-entrepreneurs should be expected to increase due to improved economic survival, incentives for legalisation of the so-called so-called. informal activities in the grey economy, as well as an incentive to start up new businesses. This draft law amending certain laws to reduce the social security contributions of natural persons doing business on a smaller scale is another good change for entrepreneurs after the constitution for business and the law on the succession of natural persons doing business, which fully implements the assumptions adopted in the "Strategy for Responsible Development" in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises. No substantive amendments were tabled during the first reading. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 17 July 2018 requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Cieślak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is with great satisfaction that I am pleased to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club the opinion and position on the draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the social security contributions of individuals carrying out business activities on a smaller scale, print No 2675. The government's priority project "Strategy for Responsible Development' concerns the so-called "Strategy for Responsible Development'. small business activity. Low contribution to the ZUS for small companies is the main objective of the proposed regulations. The objectives of the project are to increase and develop entrepreneurship, improve the survival of enterprises, increase labour market participation, reduce the grey economy, especially in less developed regions. The primary objective of the contested rules is to adjust the burden borne by entrepreneurs on social security contributions to their financial capacity. After 25 years the ossified system of lump sums of social security contributions will finally be partially adapted to the expectations of millions of Poles. This is an unprecedented situation in the Polish legal system regarding the revision of the rulebook on the social security system. It is therefore important that the level of burden on public tributes of low-income entrepreneurs is not adequate to their financial capacity, which was contrary to the constitutional principle of social justice. According to the data provided by the Ministry of Finance, entrepreneurs with income below 60 thousand. After a while, they often gave up their business activity on a yearly basis because of the social security contributions. In 2014, it was around 161 thousand. companies, entrepreneurs, who partly for this reason have ceased their business activity. The bill introduces a reduction in contributions, proportionate to the income of social security contributions for individuals engaged in an individual business activity. We mean mostly micro-entrepreneurs and the smallest companies. I will use an example here to map at least part of the changes that have been made. The company, whose average monthly income is reduced for 2018 will be 3 thousand on average. PLN, according to the proposed calculations, will pay social security contributions of about PLN 481 per month in 2019, which is a significant relief and, I hope, will have a significant impact on the further development of enterprises and entrepreneurship in our country. When discussing this project, it is impossible not to refer to the previously introduced solutions, such as non-registered activities, which allow less-scale persons not to register it, if the average monthly income of this trader does not currently exceed PLN 1050 per month. Next introduced amenities are a start-up allowance, i.e. it goes 6 months without the obligation to pay contributions to the ZUS after the first registration of the company. And it is also possible to run a company with contributions of PLN 200 per month for 24 months. Designed solution for so-called: small ZUS for small companies completes the changes made and corresponds with them, thus ensuring full system compatibility. At this point I would like to thank the entrepreneurship and economic patriotism team, which I am also pleased to chair, for contributing to the work on this bill, on the concept that was introduced by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki into the business constitution and which we can proceed today. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a project whose main objective is to adjust the burden borne by entrepreneurs on social security contributions to their financial capacity, as can be read in the explanatory memorandum. The intention is also to develop entrepreneurship, engage in work activities, reduce the grey area, etc. I will focus, ladies and gentlemen, on this adjustment of contributions to financial opportunities. If this were to be the case, the measure and the determinant cannot be the revenue, and if it were already to be the revenue, it should take account of the costs, because the scale of costs is very important in what revenue is then generated from this activity. After all, it is known, and this is, for example, a French example, which you state in the justification of this law, that there is differentiation depending on the scale of the costs and there are different rates. This is the flaw that will make it quite unfair, potentially so, and that it will affect a very small, very narrow group of entrepreneurs. It is not as the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Club said, Law and Justice, that it will affect millions of Poles and millions of Poles are happy. No, sir, 170,000. That's 9%. entrepreneurs. [[Entrepreneurs.]] Entrepreneurs, of course. Unless you're thinking that... [[We were talking about citizens.]] ...will be a gateway to self-employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is also what is the opinion of the social side. So the opinions you can meet are very different. Rather, she thinks that it will be indifferent, and this will not have the effect that it has in the explanatory memorandum to this law. The SME Ombudsman is silent. He furnished himself, disappeared, has no SME spokesperson, does not speak on this issue. [[Voice from the room: It hasn't furnished yet.]] Ah, he hasn't furnished himself yet. This is very slow, and the speed of legislation is express. He should be used to it. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, are making amendments. The major amendment we are proposing regarding young entrepreneurs will be made by Mr Marchewka. This is the project we put together in the Seym, it's in the freezer, but now we're gonna bring it in here, we're gonna propose to the House to take it. This applies to young start-ups. We also propose, ladies and gentlemen, a very important amendment, which will be addressed to all start-ups, which is a small Social Security Office, which has so far been in operation for 2 years. We propose that during the first 6 months of these 24 months the ZUS be counted from 15% minimum wage, not 30%, as it is now. We believe that it is very important to reduce costs at start-up so that the company can solidify, because if someone doing business after 30 months has a monthly income of 30 months before tax up to PLN 450, I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether it will be aid that will make these companies grow. We are not against this, but we propose to include a much larger and wider group of entrepreneurs in this mechanism. If these amendments are not taken into account, then this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is just a pure propaganda deduction of the next item from the PiS electoral programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u222	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Reducing tax burdens is conducive to the development of entrepreneurship, so it is worth taking a step further and proposing - as we are doing. it is at this moment - the release of young Poles until the age of 25 from the need to pay contributions to ZUS and NFZ. This is a chance primarily for young Poles, for hardworking, entrepreneurial and active people who want to take matters into their own hands and develop their companies. What can a young man gain from this? Someone who starts a business at the beginning of their 20s in college will not have to contribute nearly 50,000 to the state budget. PLN in 5 years. This money can be used for the development of its business, for the implementation of creative ideas, for innovative solutions, and this is especially the case for young people. It's worth it for two reasons. First of all, as research shows, young people want to combine their work with science after graduating from high school. This is indicated by almost 30% of young Poles, but only 6% He wants to start his own businesses. Why? Well, probably because many of them are worried about whether they have enough to pay contributions, which after 2,5 years of privileges are quite high and amount to over 1,200 PLN. Moreover, the professional activity of young Poles is only 35%, which is much less than the average in the European Union. If the level of professional activity [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland it was at the same level as the average in the European Union, it would work on the labour market more than 200,000. more people, which would be very positive for the economy. That's what this is all about. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am handing over to your Marshal of amendments that concern those matters I have spoken of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Prime Minister! I would like to thank the government very warmly on behalf of Polish entrepreneurs. The government's success list is huge, I've got it prepared. This is a credit list prepared by entrepreneurs. I would like to thank you first of all for the new taxes: tax on financial institutions, bank tax and insurance. About... Excuse me, Marshal, could I postpone my speech? [[Voice from the room: Because of what?]] For technical reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u226	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u228	Please, sir, but give them to Mr Łopata from the Polish People's Party, because then your time will pass. You're welcome, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party. I don't see Mr. Meysztowicz in the gym.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u229	The traditional form is reliable, then, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending certain laws in order to reduce the social security contributions of individuals doing business on a smaller scale. High Seym! The title of this law itself basically explains its meaning and purpose, because it is true that it is quite common to complain about the tax burden in Poland, including the amount of the contribution to the Social Insurance Institution, because this contribution is also widely treated as a tax burden. Although it should also be noted at the outset that there is an even greater criticism of the amount of benefits of ZUS, pensions and pensions. In view of the principle of defined contributions, these two amounts should be taken into account. I will return to this problem. High Izbo! According to statistics, revenues below 60 thousand. PLN in 2015 reached around 885 thousand. entrepreneurs, and from this group - after a substantive analysis, I understand, the logical ministry states - this form of contribution can be covered by about 175 thousand. entrepreneurs. And what conditions do entrepreneurs have to meet in order to take advantage of the proposed solutions? The proposed regulation includes entrepreneurs engaged in a single-person business activity, individually, who also receive revenues not exceeding 30 times the minimum wage during the calendar year, do not benefit from the preferential premium base for start-ups, they carried out non-agricultural business activities in the previous year for a minimum of 60 days. And one more condition: the trader did not do business for the former employer. Once these criteria have been met, such a person will be able to use the proposed mechanism for 36 months in the last 60 months of his activity. There's one more important limitation. Namely, those entities which in the previous year benefited from flat-rate income tax in the form of a tax card will be excluded from the sale of goods and services tax, and this is due to the fact that the National Tax Administration at the request of the Social Security Office is to provide information on the income of the taxpayer, therefore it must have this information in advance. This is an important point, because there may be difficulties with pulling out of the grey zone in this case. High Seym! These criteria, which, in part, because not all of them, I have mentioned, nevertheless quite complicated regulatory provisions, the calculation of the indicators makes the number of entrepreneurs that I mentioned, who could benefit from these regulations, in our view, smaller than this logical explanation is apparent. By the way, it is worth it at the end of 2019, because it seems that this law will enter into force, analyze these effects, all the more so that the element I mentioned at the beginning of this defined ZUS contribution comes into force. And it is not just my opinion or ours, doubts, because such comments were made both by OPZZ and by the Polish Crafts Association during the consultation, as can be read. The government's reply that smaller contributions are a mechanism linked to cyclicality and, as a result, it will allow the raising of capital required to receive a minimum pension, does not sound credible enough to me or does not sound credible enough. To conclude, this is a rather complicated mechanism, with a large amount of uncertainty, which will probably be - I repeat once again - used less often than it would result from statistics, but at the end I might add, it might be worth a try, so we will vote in favour of further work on this idea, on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz, 15, for the second time, I hope that now is a happy time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u231	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Prime Minister! On behalf of Polish entrepreneurs, I would like to thank the whole government for the facilities that have come to them from the government. First of all, for the new taxes that have been introduced: bank tax, insurance tax, cadastral tax, commercial property tax, power charge, e-cigarette excise duty, bottom tax, rain tax, emission levy, recycling levy, and new taxes that are on the way, i.e.: quality levy, solidarity tax, sugar tax and EU frozen tax on hypermarkets. I would also like to thank you for greater possibilities of controlling Polish entrepreneurs through the KAS special service, through a uniform control file extended, through STIR, i.e. surveillance of bank accounts, through split payment, i.e. VAT paid into a separate account, transferred to the tax office, through limits of cash transactions, a reduction from 15 thousand. Euros up to 15 000 zł and through the central register of invoices. I would also like to thank you for the increases and restrictions such as: the increase in the RES fee, the increase in the transitional fee, the blocking of VAT reductions to 22%, the increase in the VAT rate for hygienic and pharmaceutical products, the abolition of the ZUS contribution limit, which would result in taxation of 70% for the best-paid workers. , elimination of the tax-free amount for a group of citizens, adverse changes for companies in the taxation of import transactions, limitation of the possibility of using 50% of the cost of obtaining income, reduction of depreciation of inherited assets, increase of property tax for wind farms, increase of ZUS contributions, increase of postage charges, increase of parking fees, enable the imposition of charges for entry into the city centre, limitation of ownership rights for holders of large areas of land, ban on Sundays for persons employed by the market, enable the authorities to apply prohibition and restrict the opening of pharmacies. Plus this whole barrel thing. nowadays you should attach this spoon of honey, which is this Act. I would like to thank you very much for that. Bravo. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the hall: Are you proud of it?]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we are very happy as entrepreneurs. - but not only - that thanks to this bill there will be this spoon of honey, which my predecessor Kulesza spoke about, and that a little relief will be made for taxpayers, but this does not, of course, change the essential fact, that talking about the Social Security Office in categories other than categories of absurd does not make any sense. And that's what you need to be reminded of every time. The contribution to the Social Security Office, however we define it here, is nothing but a major tax, which must be paid monthly by every entrepreneur, whether he gets any income or not. Classic medieval head tax. And if someone thinks that medieval solutions are not used in the modern world, they are wrong, because it is in Poland that we have this example in the form of contributions to the ZUS. But this is not the end of absurdity, High Izbo, because in general the ZUS system is one big absurdity. From whatever point of view we look at it, this is the way to evaluate it. From a financial or economic point of view, the ZUS is nothing but a classic financial pyramid, and like every financial pyramid, it has to fall apart. From a legal point of view, in particular the provisions of the Civil Code, the ZUS is nothing but a classic exploitation. Just compare how much an average Pole, especially a man, puts into the ZUS, how much he pays in his life, and how much he takes from it. And if we were to judge this in terms of a normal civil-law agreement, then such an agreement could be changed or even resolved in court on the basis of the rules on exploitation. And from an ethical or moral point of view, this solution is completely immoral and even immoral deeply, because it, in short, discourages absolutely from having children. And this is one of the main causes of demographic collapse that we have in Poland. Just compare, for example, the situation of two masters, Kowalski and Nowak. Let's imagine that they work in the same workplace, earn the same amount, are at the same age, and there's only one thing different about them - Nowak has three children, and Kowalski doesn't have any children at all. Kowalski spends his whole life enjoying himself, spending money on what he wants, not saving for anything, is, say, a bon vivant who changes cars, changes apartments, etc., etc. Meanwhile, Nowak is busy putting away every dollar because he has to raise three children and therefore he needs money for treatment, for schools, etc. When retirement comes, three children Nowak works on both. Not much, perhaps Nowak will get a lower pension because he may have had shorter contribution periods because he was watching the children, he was with them during the illness, etc. Perhaps Nowak will die even faster because he didn't care as much about his health as Kowalski, who didn't have children. And it is nowak's children who will then be retiring from Kowalski. This shows what an absurdity the ZUS system is. This system screams to people: you are idiots, if you have children, count on the neighbor's children. And let's not be surprised that we have a demographic disaster and collapse in Poland, because with such a pension system this demographic collapse is simply a necessity. And it would be enough to make just one small change. If in the ZUS system, according to the same rules that apply now to everyone else, make a change that only means that working children pay their contributions to their parents and only their parents, it would be such a great incentive to have children that we certainly would not have a 1.3 child per woman, but it might be two or more children, because especially those women who stay and take care of them would have a much greater pension than those who do not have children. In this direction, changes in the pension system should be made, not towards patching holes in a bag that cannot be patched. This system needs to be plowed completely if we are serious about Polish demography and if we are thinking about saving public finances. There's no way to save this system. I turn to young people, especially future pensioners, especially those who start: do what you can not to give to the ZUS or the gold, because it is money thrown into the mud. Retire yourselves because it's your only hope. Invest in family and children. That's why I think the U.S.S.S. should be eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u234	Thank you very much. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, thank you, Marshal, for letting me speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the Law on the Reduction of Social Security contributions for those who have very low income and for whom, therefore, the burden of PLN 846 paid at the moment is indeed a problem. It seems that the idea itself is right, while the committee meeting raised issues concerning whether it would be good to base these reliefs on income or income. The Ministry is of the opinion that income is more difficult to investigate from the point of view of whether there is real abuse, because in such situations someone is always trying to exploit it. So we thought: well, there could be revenue. On the other hand, it seems to us that the threshold from which this smaller ZUS starts to be paid should be slightly increased, because in a situation where such an entrepreneur has a revenue of PLN 1240 and is supposed to pay PLN 199 as regards social security contributions, it ends up on a good cause on the rise of PLN 1 000. zł. If we have a law at the moment that allows economic activity to be up to 1 000. Zł was so-called. non-registered activity, it raises the question whether it is enough to encourage these few zlotys to make a good case for this entrepreneur to try to move from the form of actually unregistered business activity to the form of registered activity, assuming that it may develop its capabilities and then pay. The arguments for not doing so were that, of course, this non-registered activity is more directed at those who make money in this way, and this is not a basic source of living. As far as this argument is concerned, it can indeed be assumed that this is the case. The question is also how long this relief should last. There is a three-year period. It is good that it is not so that it must be a certain continuity that, however, it is possible to treat these revenues quite selectively during this period and to adapt flexibly the possibility of this exemption. But let me say this: it is difficult to assess the social and economic impact of this solution at the moment. We have called on the Ministry to prepare such a comprehensive analysis of the effects of this regulation within two years, because it will only be able to demonstrate whether it has actually been possible to increase the number of these companies and to reduce the number of those who register from this activity. So I hope that this intended effect can be realized. Let us wait for the results, this first analysis after the first period of operation of this law. The Modern Club will be in favour of this kind of solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u236	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up to speak again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister whether, during your work on this project, you have analysed the various sectors in terms of revenue and cost-to-income relationships in the sectors concerned, because this is extremely important in the case of the possibility of a larger group of the smaller Social Security Office. After all, it is known that there are industries, such as trade, where revenues are much higher. But this is also an industry with such a cost indicator that very often in the case of small business revenues from this industry, even though they exceed the revenue limit, are of course less or equal to those with less turnover, revenues, but in turn they have no cost. You state in your own justification the French solution, which seems to make sense, which makes the level of social security contributions conditional on gross income, but the rate is dependent on the industry. I understand that it is difficult here to refer to income, because even if investments already distort it and can cause it to be a loss, but there is also financial capacity, and the company is functioning well, and there is no problem. This is really very important, because if we are to consider the very important purpose of this law to extend the duration of enterprises, especially small entrepreneurs, it is really important for them to function on the market as long as possible, we really need to start by considering it and adopt such measures that would make this number of entrepreneurs eligible for a lower contribution much greater. Of course, I don't want to refer to the future effect that they will have lower pensions to do, but if they function well in the market, they will somehow be able to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll cover it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is a rather groundbreaking bill that says that we are lowering the ZUS for some part of entrepreneurs. In the committee there was a lot of discussion about why it was supposed to be from income, not income, because there are companies, there are entrepreneurs who, say, trade cars and have this income quite large, and they earn very little individually. What were you thinking, that you chose income instead of income? Is it gonna be monitored if I say so? Is it possible to count in the future, of course, by looking at the budgetary impact, on the expansion of this business sector?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u241	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few months ago, of course, the government promised to reduce the CIT contribution. Unfortunately, it will not benefit more than 90% small enterprises, because they account for the linear contribution of PIT and pay such contribution, linear. That's one thing. Secondly, about 170 000 will benefit from these proposals. entrepreneurs, but this is only 9% economic entities that operate in Poland, so more than 90% He won't benefit from it again. So I would like to ask the Minister: Why, then, at all costs, do you want to make a contribution dependent on income rather than income? Because if we give an example of someone who runs a small neighborhood store and has a lot of costs, has a lot of turnover, but operates and works on a very low margin, it will turn out that he will not be able to benefit from it and will have to pay a normal rate of ZUS, and someone who operates in another industry and does not have such turnover will be able to benefit from it. It seems that this should depend on the amount of income and on a certain scale. Why, then, Minister, have you not put in place such a solution that seems more rational in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You have calculations, you have knowledge. You understand perfectly well that the ZUS system cannot survive. It is estimated that there will be one employee per pensioner around 2050. You just can't keep it up, and everyone knows it. You know well what a financial absurdity this is, I said: the ZUS pyramid, legal exploitation, moral exploitation, that is discouragement of having children and planned construction of demographic collapse. Therefore, my question is simple: Is there any work in the Ministry to change a system that cannot be maintained, to change a concept, for example, over a citizen's pension, anything that makes sense? I mean, patching a hole in that bottomless bag doesn't make any sense, and you all know it, especially you. If you don't know, you shouldn't be working at the ministry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u245	Thank you, Marshal. I welcome the ministers not very interested in the debate, rather the talks among themselves, who are in a very good mood. I'd like to ask you why there's no one here from the Ministry of Finance. You are boasting about lowering the Social Security Office for those with the lowest income - and it is right to ask why we are talking about income and not income - and we know that work is underway in the Ministry of Finance to increase the Social Security Office for all those with higher income. I would like to ask if those who have income, I repeat: revenue, at 20, 30, 40, even 50,000. zł per month, they can sleep peacefully. I know you, and I know they can't sleep peacefully, that this is the first step towards... Besides, Prime Minister Morawiecki said it. You're not laughing because you're in the Seym. I know you're a young man, but it's not right. Mr Morawiecki announced that the ZUS must be progressive, and the progressive ZUS means that, under the pretext of lowering symbolically to people with symbolic income, who are conducting business activities, you will increase those who today build their potential, build up the future of their companies, accumulate capital for the development of their companies, have more revenue that they devote to the development of the company, because if it is not, they pay tax on it. That's where the progression should be. And if not, if they leave it at the company, then the money is spent on the development of their businesses, often conducted in the form of physical activities. I would like to hear from this place the assurance from the Ministry of Finance that there is no work going on towards a progressive ZUS, i.e. to increase contributions to all those who have higher revenues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u246	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you already know, these questions have been asked unnecessarily. The Member knows the answers to everything, so I do not know why to ask questions. [[You've always had class, Minister.]] But that should apply to each other. First thing. Of course, it is very easy to bid when it comes to doing more and so on. We spoke at the committee meeting yesterday, sir. I will refer to this idea, the project or today's amendment. I didn't want to criticize this project, just like we talked about yesterday at the committee meeting, but I showed a mechanism, how easy it is to discuss with such proposals when you're on the other side. Member of the Commission: up to 24 years. Why not 35? And that's the first thing. You also know very well that it is not so that you can snap a finger and the income will be up to two and a half times or the revenue to two and a half times or the snap of a finger will be six times. We have been hearing about ZUS as a barrier to the smallest entrepreneurs for years. For 20 years we've had a system of such a ruthless and rigid stakes. For the first time, we have a project that really helps those who actually operate on the smallest scale. The cost of this solution is about PLN 0.5 billion per year. That's not enough. It's not like we're supposed to make a rule out of privilege or a solution for the most deprived. On the contrary, this is actually a solution addressed to those who need it most. Yesterday we had an interesting experience because we first spoke at the Economic Committee meeting and then we talked at the Social Assistance Committee meeting. There were completely different voices from those at the Economic Committee meeting. There, it was more concerned whether there would be minimum pensions or whether citizens would not contribute to these contributions. We answered the questions. The Social Assistance Committee unanimously recommended positive opinions. This means, in my opinion, that the project is balanced, that it responds to both the risks associated with self-employment and the risks associated with not collecting for minimum retirement, that it is addressed to those who really need this support most. Is it a few zlotys, as President Meysztowicz said? Although I thank you very much for your statement, because the President's entire opinion was very substantive and balanced. As far as this question is concerned, this opinion merely directs me towards showing this in an example. Today, the social security contribution is PLN 843. Someone who's gonna make a living or make a profit of $2.5,000. zł, he will have 401 zł of this contribution, or 50%. That's over 400 zlotys difference. It's not a bagatela. I wouldn't want it to sound like such a mess about this project right now, either, and the fact that we have this... The Member spoke about the class, but I was very sorry when she said propaganda. We have the first project that really goes into this sphere that needs it the most, because in the range of up to 60,000, right in this range, we have entrepreneurs, one in four of which does not end their business, so it ends up before time, failing. We have five times the risk of bankruptcy in this group than in the group of companies in the next range, 60 and 100 thousand. This shows that we are about to sew these solutions to measure, not who will bid higher. With regard to what appeared in the questions and Mr Piechowiak and Mr Meysztowicz, about the issue of monitoring, this will, of course, be monitored both after the full year of 2019 and after 2 years. If from this monitoring, the ex post evaluation indicates that some modifications are needed, or that - I don't know - there is potential to change, profile, recalibrate these solutions, then of course yes. Of course, it will be monitored and it is not that this solution will be an abandoned self-pass. It is therefore clear in the impact assessment that this monitoring will be. By the way, in my opinion, there is no need for this to be added to the bill. As far as the industries are concerned, Madam Janyska asked this, it is so that of course we have analysed this. In France there is this range between 13 and 23% on income. Here it's 16%. by indicators in 2018 I'm just going to say on the example of the green book of payment congestion that we are now consulting, that solutions... We asked the question whether solutions related to the prevention of congestion should be addressed to particular sectors, adapted to the specific needs of particular sectors. The response of the vast majority of entrepreneurs was that solutions should be universal, and in most cases it is because entrepreneurs operate in several industries. It's the same thing that's on the income. The more complicated solutions we make... And division into industries is, however, some kind of introduction of an additional meter or rather an indicator or a criterion, it causes checks to be made to determine whether it's this industry, whether it's 60% of the industry, whether it's working in 70 or 40. So I think that's the 16%. even looking at this French solution, is, I think, an attractive solution. It was raining here too, whether it was an incentive to start, or whether it was also a proposal for young people. This is not a solution for starters. For starters, we've predicted... The Sejm has adopted two solutions this year. Both non-registration and start-up relief are solutions for start-ups. This solution, once again, is for people who operate on a small scale, and that's why... Turning to the main question about income - income does not show the scale of activity, income really indicates the cost-effectiveness, profitability of the activity. And that the company, for example. it doesn't show income, it doesn't mean that this company is a small company, but on the contrary, it can definitely be a large company. That's why this privilege, because that's what you have to call it, or that incentive is directed... In our opinion, the revenue is best characterized by the scale of the company's activities, because the ZUS-owska contribution is also some kind of cost, in the business sense it is also the cost which the company bears. For this reason, the revenue best reflects the scale of the activity, which is confirmed by the OECD recommendations, which we talked about yesterday in the economic committee. OECD recommendations for SMEs say that income is the best criterion in this area. The CIT tax, which Mr Marchewka said was that almost no one benefited - 400,000. The companies are within the radius of this solution, so I don't know if it's enough. In my opinion, this is actually a lot. To end the answers to the questions - the question of income, because this was most often mentioned, Mr Piechowiak also asked that question. So, like I said yesterday, and now, the scale of the business is an indication of revenue. Data on the needs of entrepreneurs show that among those with the lowest income, up to 60 thousand, there is the greatest need for support. We're also talking about cost. Moreover, yesterday in the committee it was that, on the one hand, the Member said that few people would benefit and, on the other hand, asked whether the system would last. These solutions are cut in such a way as to help those who need it most, and so that the system can withstand it, so that people earn minimum pension capital. And one last thing. As for income, I also said that yesterday, because income can always be much easier, let's say, modifications, not necessarily according to reality, this also causes that... [[And so is income.]] ...we have, on the one hand, a much greater incentive to conspire, and on the other hand, a much greater risk of checking that this does not correspond to the absolute scale of activity. So income isn't exactly the determinant here. However, as you have asked, and as I have said, the bill, if it is passed and signed by the President, will be subject to constant monitoring. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u248	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. As at the second reading, it was submitted to the submitted project... You're still the minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: I would like to answer two questions. Excuse me.]] Well, there you go. [[I'm guessing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u249	I am sorry, sir, but unfortunately I will not have a satisfactory answer for you. I am unable to answer this question, because this is the competence of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy above all, so here, above all, the Minister has a decisive voice, the first. As for Mr Nitras' question, it is because, as Mr Nitras has pointed out, there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance, the only option is perhaps to ask the finance minister about it in the interpellation. I haven't heard of such activities. [[Thank you for changing your tone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u250	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the social security contributions of individuals carrying out business activities on a smaller scale. The fact that social security contributions are too much of a financial burden for individuals engaged in small-scale activities and that they are therefore often a reason for their closure has been said for a long time. For a long time there has already been a solution, which is the preferential amount of contributions to the Social Security Office in force during the initial 2-year period of operation. A huge number of closed ones after the end of the preferential business period have highlighted the scale of the problem. In April this year, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced a reduction in the contributions to the Social Security Office for small companies with small income, prior to writing these assumptions in the Strategy for responsible development. I am pleased that today we are already discussing this declaration as a concrete bill. The regulation contained in the novel implies that the amount of the premium base is dependent on the income generated and includes individual single-member entrepreneurs whose revenues do not exceed 2,5 times the minimum wage. The proposed mechanism will be open for 36 months in the last 60 months. I am convinced that the solutions proposed by facilitating the start-up of less profitable businesses are in line with social expectations and will have a positive impact on the development of entrepreneurship, especially in smaller towns. I also agree with the designers, according to which for many people they will also encourage them to leave the grey zone and register their activities. However, I have reservations about the mechanism for establishing the lowest basis for the assessment of contributions, which is intended to depend on the revenue generated in the previous year. This provision makes this solution not present aid in cases where the company's revenue is unexpectedly lower for several months. The privileges of the amendment under discussion today will not be available to such an entrepreneur until the following year, which, unfortunately, may no longer be any help for him to maintain his business. Despite this reservations in my opinion, the project will have a positive impact on the development opportunities of small enterprises, and therefore, near Free and Solidarnia it will vote in favour of its further process.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u252	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Health Information System Act and some other laws (Prints No. 2674 and 2750). I ask Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a law on amending the Health Information System Act and some other laws, print No. 2674. This law was examined in the Health Committee. After the first reading, the number 13 was amended. Amendment 1 concerned Article. 1. Point 1 is amended as follows. The aim was to maintain the services in this law in terms of trust and electronic identification and some other laws. The current wording has changed as part of it. Concerning Amendment 2, this is about Article. 1 after point 12, add point 12a. The purpose of this amendment is to establish that, in order to confirm the procurement order for medical devices, it is necessary for the National Health Fund to obtain data on medical personnel capable and entitled to issue orders. It's about the migration of data from the Central List of Medical Workers, about getting this data to the National Health Fund as part of the information. As regards Amendment 3, it concerns Article. 1. It is about adding points 24 and 25. The aim of this amendment is to ensure, in particular, that people with a high disability have easy access to the prescription and that the National Health Fund has access to data on the Central List of Medical Workers and Pharmacies. As regards Amendment 4, it concerns Article. 2. This amendment is of a order nature. The point is to organize a catalogue of people who have the right to represent a patient. It may be a statutory representative, an authorised person or a third party, without specific indication. As regards Amendment 5, it concerns Article. 3. It allows mail-order sales of medicines which may be made without a prescription or with a prescription from a doctor. The aim is to make it easier for people with disabilities to receive these benefits. Amendment 6. obliges the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector simply to make available the data from the national register of authorisations for public pharmacies, pharmacies and records of authorisations granted for the operation of these facilities to the National Health Fund. This is intended to enable the compliance of the data and information provided by the pharmacy contained in the register to be verified. Amendment 7 in Article. 4 introduces new wording. The idea is that the Agency should have access to the data and be sure that the data are collected and meet the highest quality and completeness criteria. Amendment 8 - Art. 5 of this project is replaced by the following 2c and - in point 4 It's about the degree of availability of the state-of-the-art... Excuse me... The aim is to learn from these data the diversity of different treatments, the degree of availability of different medical technologies and treatments, and the establishment of the AOTmiT benefit tariff. And here it is, so to speak, a lot of entries. The point is that the data is available and that it can simply be made tariffling. About the next amendment... Amendment 9 concerns Article. 5a. Amendment 10 provides for amendments to Article. 6. Amendment 11 after the article. 6 introduces Article. 6a. Consequently, Article. 8 adopts the wording that the Act shall enter into force 14 days after its publication, with the exception of Article. 6a - the law shall enter in the case of this article on the day of publication. As regards Amendment 11, it concerns the transmission of data to an integrated system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products. The point is not to make it difficult for patients to implement prescriptions. The Commission has examined all these amendments, all 13 amendments have accepted and recommended the entire bill for approval. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u254	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and on certain other laws, prints No. 2674 and 2750. The proposed changes concern the introduction of the patient's online account, in short the IKP, which is a free web application that will allow you to pass on to the patient, among others. information on health care benefits, information on reimbursement prescriptions, waiting lists for the provision, referrals, orders for medical devices, submitted declarations of choice of doctor, nurse and midwife of the POZ, held on a given day's right to health care and on the basis of that right, will allow the submission of statements of consent or withdrawal of consent to the person authorised to make medical records available, the provision of information on health status, the provision of certain health benefits, information on medical exemptions, the amount of health insurance contributions and the amount refunded in respect of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices. The Act obliges the National Health Fund to provide information on the provision of health care services, the amount of public funds spent to finance these benefits and the right to health care on a given day and the basis for that right - therefore these data will be available by the IKP. In the case of surgery or the use of a treatment or diagnosis method presenting an increased risk for the patient, consent to the provision of health services, via the IKP, will take the form of a document. The patient will be able to receive information about the amount of public funds to finance the benefits provided to him both with the NFZ and with the IKP, as well as medical records. The regulations introduced will allow the patient to access some of the services offered by the Integrated Patient Informant, made available by... via the IKP. The next issue - service providers and medical registers have been obliged to ensure that their ICT systems comply with the minimum technical and functional requirements included in the Public Information Bulletin kept by the Minister for Health. The regulations introduced by the Act are intended to establish such a system of information and data management, whereby a patient with ready results will arrange for a doctor's appointment. Nurses and midwives will be able to issue prescriptions, as will doctors, not only after personal examination of the patient, but also after examination through ICT systems or communication systems. The prescription necessary to continue treatment, prescription or order for medical devices will be possible without examination of the patient if this is justified by his medical condition reflected in the medical records. The most important success of the proposed changes in the bill is that the patient will have the full information needed to obtain health benefits, he will not have to bother doctors every time he needs medicines for long-term treatment, he will learn how long he will wait for a place in the sanatorium or specialist treatment - in a word of changes in the bill and monitoring will allow every patient with much greater comfort to take care of his treatment and health. What is very important, these changes will result in benefits both for the patient and for the state. It should be stressed that the changes being examined are in line with European Union legislation. In this reading, as a club of law and justice, we propose one amendment. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u256	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I would like to present a position concerning prints 2674 and 2750, i.e. a draft law amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The basic point here is... I already informed about this at the committee meeting and asked the Minister, and perhaps above all the chairman of the committee, to explain why it is so that we get amendments actually on the day when there is a committee meeting. The amendment to the bill was as much as the law itself is: originally nine and finally 13. Literally on the day when we're about to proceed over the bill, we get adjustments and it's hard to focus on one or the other. True, some people have a great divisibility of attention, but probably not all of them. It's a basic remark. We have always said that health is not political, and I can see that the same thing is happening in other committees. On the other hand, the general comments to the bill are the following from our side. The obligation for recipients of their ICT systems to comply with the requirements of the Ministry of Health is introduced. Here there is no cost analysis by the Ministry regarding the obligation to adapt these ICT systems. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health has resigned from making this available free of charge, because on the one hand, Article is repealed. 71 and at the same time Article 7 is inserted. 8b, which is, as it were, a supplement to the repeal of Article. 71. It is also referred to the transfer from the Regulation to the Public Information Bulletin of the minimum technical and functional requirements to be met by the service provider in the field of ICT systems. I don't think it's that rank, and it should remain in the regulation. The Ministry of Health has also reduced the educational and information portal and the obligation to include data collected in the Health Care Accessibility Monitoring System. I also understand that we want to be open to people with disabilities. Therefore, there is this amendment 5, which says that disabled people can carry out their prescriptions in a different way than before. On the other hand, our great concern is that one more distribution channel is actually running outside of any control. In our view, this is underdeveloped and this fact does not entitle us to help the disabled in this way by breaking certain rules. It seems to me that here you will certainly have a lot to work out as regards this distribution of medicines, in principle on order, where you can also deliver this medicine home, which is one more channel of this distribution without any pharmaceutical supervision. We would therefore like to make our amendment to this amendment. I'm handing this amendment over to the marshal right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u259	Thank you very much. We also have comments on the amendment to the draft law on public-funded healthcare provision concerning the organisation of joint proceedings. Of course, here you are talking first of all about how well it will be, how cheaper it will be, how much better it will be. I do not know what experience you have so far and whether the Minister has spoken to hospitals that have already had such experiences. What was the result? What has led you to do, in fact, at the moment, for the medicines, products and technical measures that the National Health Fund is paying back, to make joint invitations to tender? And, of course, Amendment 13. Excellent amendment, I must say. Congratulations. It's the one that's been added, except for the nine amendments, included. Ladies and gentlemen, the outpatient care contracts, AOS, are extended until 31 December 2019. So far, you've been saying all along that it's our inability, and so on, that it's an extension and an extension of contracts. At the moment, the state [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll be extending these contracts for four years now. Therefore, the club The platform will not support your proposal because of the above mentioned comments, unless you take our amendment into account. Then with this one amendment, we'll be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law, contrary to its title, does not apply only to computer science. It is divided into two parts: the IT part and the purchasing part. First, I'm gonna focus on the IT section. We live in the 21st century, we are in 2018, the computerization of the system has been talked about for practically 10 years and it would be half poor if we were just talking. The big money was spent on the IT system that was supposed to be created, and from which, in fact, apart from e-prescriptions or e-releases, nothing big has ever come up so far. Almost 800 million zlotys have been spent and since 2009 we have been dealing with such an IT yeti, which everyone said existed and was not there. Now there is a project that talks about promotional IT, which means as patients we can create an account on the Internet so that we can supervise our treatment process, we will have insight into the information about ourselves, but - and here a big plus for this idea - we will also have some control over the system. As a patient, because I am talking about this perspective here, I will be able to monitor whether I have received the witness recommended by my doctor. Because sometimes such situations happen - and it is no secret - that the patient is assigned benefits that he does not receive. So the patient's control function is very supportive here. There's a lot of ease. It's the 21st century, and we're really living in the digital world. As citizens, as patients, we want to have a facilitated life and a platform that the Ministry has prepared, and the law will enable us to use it, it will certainly give us this opportunity. There are dangers. There's a danger everyone's talking about: data security. It's a very sensitive thing. I'll tell you on the basis of my experience with previous pre-sedition activities. I know how insurers can get information from doctors covered by medical confidentiality to prove to a patient who has had chronic illness that it's his fault. Things that haven't touched me personally, but they've met my clients, I can tell you a lot. Therefore, the protection of sensitive data is crucial. I don't want to discuss the details of this project, because, first of all, there isn't enough time for that, second of all, that's not what I'm going for here. I have a question, Minister: are you familiar with the position of the Supreme Medical Chamber about this amendment that my predecessor mentioned here? It's about Amendment 5. I know your intentions are good, but good intentions are hell paved. This provision, this amendment, according to the opinion of the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber, is very dangerous in view of the arguments put forward by this House. Therefore, I repeat the question: Do you know these reservations? Because there are a lot of reservations. Now, I'm going to be honest with you, there's a fact in history, back in 2001, when there was also a famous law that made it possible to export drugs illegally abroad. Doesn't this amendment also fit into this kind of action? There's a threat. Time is running out, so I'm not gonna divorce here, and I'm gonna repeat that question. There's a second part of this bill, which is a purchasing issue. I know that this may raise various reservations, but I do not hide, Madam, that there are also positive voices, that these records will give opportunities - because it is not mandatory, it is optional, that is, there is no compulsion - that, as hospitals communicate, create a group purchasing group on a group basis. And maybe it'll be profitable. [[That's not gonna happen. The fund will order, there is no voluntary. Fiction, not freedom.]] There are different voices. I know you don't think so, I don't comment on that here, but there are also voices that this is actually a chance to save a lot of money in the system. In conclusion, I repeat the question of Amendment 5. I also repeat the question of security issues. As patients, we want to feel safe and make sure that our sensitive data does not go beyond the system. I will recommend the support of this law at the club, and voting on Amendment 5 depends on what response I get from the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Szumowski, when he took office after his predecessor, found many outstanding issues, so we hoped to receive information from the new head of the health department about the directions and strategies of the planned actions. During the January meeting of the Health Committee, one of the priorities that Minister Szumowski spoke about at the time was the computerization of the entire health system. I decided to ask in the interpellation for precise plans in this regard. In response, I obtained, which is very important, a fairly detailed description of the changes that the Ministry will implement. These plans are ambitious. Today's discussion about the bill amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws is therefore the first step towards the implementation of these assumptions. It is difficult not to notice that nowadays the Internet has become a universal platform for communication and a tool by which we can deal with many matters, including those of an official nature. In the health system, more or less thoughtful and successful attempts were made to inform. And so on. Electronic health insurance cards functioned only in one voivodship. This example shows that millions of zlotys spent by all previous governments did not produce any results. The current situation therefore calls for revolutionary solutions. This may be the case with the patient's online account. However, I am afraid that for many seniors who are the largest group of patients, the use of these facilities at first contact may be difficult. The complexity of IT issues requires very broad changes and I am also aware of the need to introduce consistent requirements for the IT systems of service providers and operators of medical registers. This will, above all, allow for easy integration and avoid problems in further expansion of the system with further functionalities. However, returning to the main objective of the project, which is to introduce rules on the patient's online account, I would like to draw attention to a very important issue. Dear Minister, All facilitations and access to information on benefits provided without having to leave the house or even to make a statement on the person's authorisation to access medical records will be unnecessary if patients are deprived of access to health benefits or the number of those benefits will be limited. Without an increase in health expenditures, these facilities will not be enough, because the patient's online accounts will simply be empty. I am convinced that there should be a stream of measures that will make full use of the new opportunities behind the extensive IT system. Today, unfortunately, this coherence of action is not visible. Finally, I would like to stress that the time and way in which the laws are being processed in this term of office of the Sejm, absolutely no longer surprise me. Yesterday, discussing computerization, we were returning to the rules that people with disabilities are waiting for to implement. It welcomes the fact that the rulers have reflected and that these regulations are included in this law, but once again it shows that there is legislative chaos in this parliamentary term. This should not be the process of lawmaking. The Modern Posel Club from the beginning draws attention to the need to exclude health care from everyday political conflict. As part of my work in committee, I have always pointed out that we parliamentarians, when creating a law, should first of all take care of the patient's well-being. Moreover, this patient should have a sense of stability in the health system and not experience further changes with the arrival of another government. The Modern Posel Club supports the introduction of a health system in the 21st century, also in terms of technology, and of course will vote in favour of this project, but we are calling for a solution to the main problems of the health system, as is expected by Polish patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. High Izbo! This draft law provides for a number of changes, some of which, however, the most important are the introduction of an online patient account, i.e. a free web application to ensure that it provides access to information on public-funded health benefits. In view of the statutory provisions, for example for information purposes, it may be worth noting in particular that this access is planned, inter alia. access to information on prescriptions reimbursed, benefits granted, including the amount of public funds spent on financing these prescriptions and services, waiting lists for services, referrals, orders for medical devices, etc., but also access to information about the right to healthcare provided on a given day. It is also about making statements of consent to the provision of medical records to a person authorised by the patient, making statements of consent to the provision of specific health benefits or refusing such consent, etc. However, it seems that the new rules - and this is probably the most important - will allow the patient to access some of the services offered under the so-called. an integrated patient informant, which is also made available by the National Health Fund via the patient's online account. It will also be possible to reverse access. On the other hand, what seems very important and what I would like to stress, because this is probably the most practical point, is that nurses and midwives will be able to issue prescriptions, like doctors, not only after personal examination of the patient. However, many patients today seem to be wasting their time or unnecessarily booking these visits to doctors just to have their medicine discharged. At the same time, issuing the prescription necessary to continue treatment and prescription or order for medical devices as a continuation of medical supplies will also be possible without examination of the patient. There may be doubt here, but that's the possibility of this system, this bill proposes. This is where the doubts were expressed. - I share them, too, because there are specified terms - whether we can do it or whether you can do it as those who will implement it. By 1 January 2019 at the latest, the possibility of making declarations of consent to the provision of medical records to the person authorised and by 30 September next year, 2019 is to be open to information about the right to healthcare, the basis for this right, the provision of healthcare services, the release of medical services, the amount of insurance contributions, the possibility of making declarations of consent to the provision of health services, etc. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a kind of revolution, so I think it is necessary to say, certainly technological, if all this were to work out and perhaps social. In any case, we wish it to succeed, in line with the call for a post-political approach to health protection. Let it succeed and let this system - because there is money invested in it, in this system - work well, because it is important for the good of the health system, but also for the good of the patient, which is the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs Zwierzan gave her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question is for you. I would very much ask you to clarify the inclusion of Amendment 13. This is really very interesting, because you are so repressing us that we have not been able to conduct any tenders in recent years. Therefore, in your case it will also be 4 years, or even more, because 31 December 2019 is actually a distant date. So far, haven't you established any competition rules, or can't you establish that? The dates for the AOS competitions are still being shifted. I'd like to ask you a favor... If we fail to meet the deadlines that you have just mentioned here - by 1 January, will we continue to postpone the deadlines for the implementation of individual paragraphs, as we usually do - the 19th will be the 21st etc.? 'Cause I don't think all bets are ready for that. On what basis do you think there will be savings if public tenders are made? Because I have a proposition: let's just make a central tender, the ministry will make a tender, then there will be one drug, one company, and there will be even more savings. Why do you have to tender for the voivodship? Because from what the recipe says, these are tenders that the regional branches of the national fund will be able to announce. So it's better to do the central one. No? Well, if you don't, I'm asking you to explain, 'cause maybe I misunderstood. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u268	Thank you. The floor is voiced by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The patient's online account, which this law makes, is very beneficial, because in order to heal the human body, knowledge of all phenomena is necessary. But I have a question for you, Minister: Is it true that the amount of public funding spent on health care and the amount of health contributions paid by the recipient is what should be found in this patient's online account? We have social solidarity in health care and all of us are entitled to health care financed from the state budget and therefore care - from the point of view of the sick - free of charge. Perhaps these data should not be included in this information, because it is not important whether this treatment cost 5 PLN or cost 1 million PLN, as in some cancers. The second question is the emergency of this system. What are the safeguards that will allow this system to function always and smoothly? I also wanted to mention something that the previous speakers had already said: in the last second we received 13 amendments. We couldn't even get to know it, it really wasn't right. And one last thing. I asked you about it in the committee and you didn't answer me why the Ministry of Health withdrew from making the programs available, which was to delete the record of computer programs free of charge for recipients from the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that there is a need for an IT bill, but the state, as always, will break the law. The question is why you have introduced amendments to the Public Health Act and the Pharmaceutical Act - which are completely unrelated to this law - completely thoughtless, without public consultation, without responsibility. Minister, have you considered the online sale of drugs for people with disabilities to protect the lives and health of these people? You're doing politics today - you want to show how good you are for people with disabilities. You should have given them the 500 zlotys they wanted. [[We did.]] Why don't you just... You didn't give what they wanted. Why don't you introduce the possibility of saving free medicines for people over 75 years of age by specialists, only by POZ doctors? My questions are: How will you secure it for people with disabilities, first of all how do you identify it? Since medication can only be ordered on the basis of a statement, I can write: I am a disabled person, please send me the medication. How will you secure the transport of these drugs? You didn't make a list of drugs that could be dangerous, drugs, painkillers, insulin. You're introducing the next broker, which is courier companies, which will bring these drugs in the unknown way. And how are you gonna check the packets? Because maybe the drug will come to the package. It's irresponsible, Minister, because these people may not get the cure in time when they need it. These people can get... Someone might send a fake prescription for narcotics. After all, what we are afraid of is launching the next export channel of drugs from Poland. We're not against selling drugs online to people with disabilities, but let them be diapers, let them be sturdy bags, let them be things that can be sold. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and provide these people with a shipping route, but in a completely safe way for these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u272	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By listening to the voices of all those who are speaking in this Chamber today about this bill, one would like to say: computerisation of the system - yes, distortion - no. As far as questions are concerned, Minister, there are great opportunities for the patient's online account. But I have a specific question. Will supervision, supervision by the system of queuing through the patient's online account allow e.g. to shorten the queues to specialist doctors? There are voices that are sick, who sign up several times, blocking the queue for others. Will this system allow this type of action to be supervised by some patients? That's one thing. Second thing. Do you have any calculation of the costs incurred by health care institutions in adapting to the minimum technical requirements developed for ICT systems? And as far as the issue that my previous speaker raised is concerned, there is one thing I really need to write here as a person who has diabetes. I'm addicted to insulin, and I'm going to say this, and I know exactly that people who take anabolics train bodybuilding in an unsporting way, but the way they train, they often cheat a prescription for insulin from doctors, because insulin makes it easier to gain weight. Isn't this amendment 5 dangerous even in this particular case? Just go online, where you can exchange information on how to extort a prescription for insulin. Isn't that gonna become pathology? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u274	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u275	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to address the issues that have been raised today. I'd like to start with the one that aroused a lot of emotions, and I think it's right about mail order sales of drugs for people with disabilities. That was actually asked by all of you. And we, too, have seen a number of doubts that the Pharmacy Chamber has reported to us today. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a situation which in the history of Polish parliamentarianism, I think, we meet rarely. This is an amendment tabled by the Civic Platform Club, and this is an amendment tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The content and meaning of these amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are actually the same, because these amendments are talking about one thing, about the use of already existing provisions of the regulation governing the mail order sale of medicines not on prescription, because such provisions are already, also to regulate mail order sales of medicines in the case of prescription medicines sold to disabled people. This is actually the point of the amendment that you and the state have tabled. And this is a very good direction because of the doubts that have arisen today. Should all medicines be marketed by mail order? Probably not, and therefore there is a consultation of this regulation, which will take place publicly and with due respect for time limits. I understand your objections, but I would like to explain that we read it in such a way that the subject of support for people with disabilities has actually been extremely important, very often addressed in recent weeks, and probably hence such an idea that such an amendment should be introduced in such a project. I have listened to your voices and I believe that none of you had any doubts. as to the fact that the intention is good, only comments were submitted were that this should be secured. The security offers are as follows. In the regulation, we will determine what cannot be sold by mail. There's just a list of drugs you're not gonna be able to sell by mail. Secondly, we're going to determine the exact location. As you will learn about the regulation that is already in force, you will see that it is really very retail, there is even a place where packages are packed. 'Cause this is where the Amazons come in, the Ubers. Ladies and gentlemen, mail order sales of drugs were and will only be possible from the pharmacy. This has always been the case and no one is planning to change anything about it, because it is the pharmacist who knows how to ensure that the marketing of medicines is conducted in a credible and safe manner. We do not change this, and in the framework of this regulation, which, as I have already said, we intend to prepare through a very detailed consultation with the apothecary community, we will determine what conditions must be met, what must definitely not be sent, and we will introduce under another regulation, which describes the method of issuing prescriptions, a specific category identifying persons with disabilities, so that the doctor who will prescribe the medicine can indicate that this is the person who, due to his disability, may benefit from this additional entitlement. And another, very important, subject that you have raised - the issue of illegal drug exports. Ladies and gentlemen, there really are people on every side of this room whose common goal is not to add to drugs exported to the West to eliminate drug mafias that export drugs and to make it very clear that there is no such consent. Just as health is the subject, as one of the Members has said here, above-political, so it seems to me that the fight against crime is a trans-political issue twice over. That is why I wanted to draw attention - the same is true in both the draft amendment - to the fact that the prescription that can be made at a distance will only be in electronic form. Ladies and gentlemen! This will allow live monitoring, in real time, when, what recipe, where and for whom it is displayed. This is the best way to fight fraud. Just not the man, not the inspector who has to go to the pharmacy today, he has to go to the warehouse, he has to go to the health care facility, no, just the IT system, who at the time of the prescription knows that the prescription has been issued, and he knows that there is a deviation, because some doctor suddenly prescribed something very much. Then we don't have to wait for the inspection to take place until we have some checks. No, ladies and gentlemen, we see it right away. And today, in the case of a non-refundable paper prescription, we see it only when the check comes. And pharmacies in Poland we have, ladies and gentlemen, 15 thousand. Although we are strengthening the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, we will never strengthen it as much as it will strengthen its ability to use information systems. [[Minister, conditions for transport control. Very important.]] This is already described in the non-prescription regulation. These conditions are absolutely not loosened. For specific groups that require special conditions, we will indicate what these conditions should be. Ladies and gentlemen! No pharmacist will give up because the pharmacists are responsible and they know what patients need, and they know what drug safety is, in some clumsy drug package that needs to get to the patient safely, and it's a patient who has, I think, a unique need, a person with disabilities who just can't get out of the house. Of course, we want people with disabilities to be able to leave the house, to participate in social life just like any other person, and we know that this is not always possible. I've spent about half the time on it, but I think it's the most important point, which is why I've talked so much about it. However, I would also like to answer these questions. There was a question that Mrs Gelert and Mrs Chybick asked about databases, portals. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, These are products that somebody once wrote down in the bill, but they never came up. There's no money in the budget for it, no one predicted it. There's no reason for us to know that it didn't happen... And this was not created for a very specific reason: there is simply no market need, there is no market need for the state to enter and create software for tens or hundreds or thousands of entities that operate on the medical market. It's just that the market works better here, and it's better able to regulate it. Contrary to the allegations that have sometimes been made against this government, we really do not want to replace the market, but we want it to function where it works optimally. Another point is the so-called issue. joint purchases. Well, this is where she snuck in, I think, some kind of misunderstanding. It is not our intention to cede the purchasing function to the voivodship branches of the fund. [[No, no, of course not. It says no. That's all I get.]] Exactly. The director of the regional branch of the fund will only oversee these proceedings, where hospitals will voluntarily... [[Disorders.]] ...by choosing this method in their area of action, they will decide to do so. And yes, we have analyses that show, for example. looking at institutes subject to the health minister, that these institutes buy the same products at different prices. And that is precisely why we would like this debt not to be incurred, in particular, so that it does not increase, so that we are watching every dollar we spend twice, which is why we want to allow such group proceedings to be conducted, but only where the healthcare providers themselves decide to do so. This is a bill that gives you a chance, as well as with the patient's online account, to use which no one... [[It's about the possibility of carrying out...]] That's how I interpret the possibility. [[If the national fund does, I don't think the entity can refuse.]] (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sure it's not our intention to restrict access to drugs, really, that's not the point. We want to act to ensure that certain mechanisms that lead to more efficient use of resources in the health system can be applied. They can't today because there's no legal basis. [[They can and they are.]] There's no such thing in the formula we've proposed. Of course, there's a possibility. the creation of purchasing groups, but as you probably know, this has not always been successful. I'm running out of time, so I'd like to make a few more key points. Mr Kozłowski asked how this would affect the queues. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this will work well, but not well in the sense that they will increase, only queues should be reduced, because by introducing electronic referrals to specialists, at the time of issuing such a referral to a particular specialist for a particular patient, the so-called. a blockage that will prevent him from joining another specialist in a particular specialization. The electronic referral pilot will be launched as early as mid-October this year. I know that the pace we have imposed on ourselves, as Mr Łopata said, is ambitious, but I would like Mr Yeti to find it as soon as possible. I think it's already partially possible to find them on the patient's website. gov.pl, where the first version of this Online Patient Account is already visible. Another question was how seniors would find themselves in this reality with the patient's online account. As I said, we design these solutions so that they are not mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen, my experience so far shows that it is very often the seniors who are most interested in using such solutions, because for them this information on health protection is extremely important. And that's why, when we design these services, we use the WCAG 2.0 standards that are aimed at making it, for example. possibility of using greater contrast, font magnification. These are available services. We are moving towards even more accessibility, a little ahead of the initiative that Minister Zagórski and Minister Ensign Enjoy recently presented on the bill that will require such availability for these public administrations. We're taking care of it. The Centre of Health Information Systems also examines the websites of other entities for compliance with the WCAG in order to help, indicate what can be improved in order to actually increase this availability. As far as the increase in expenditure is concerned, Mr Gadomski, my colleague, Mr Gadomski, was probably standing there a week or two ago and was talking about it. He was talking about how we're really going to increase this effort, how we're going to accelerate in the case of so-called. Act 6%. I would have had such a wish, and I think this is also what Polish patients would want in terms of increasing the expenditure, so that it is not only expenditure, but also investment, investment in quality. And this computerization is in my opinion such a tool to raise this quality. Such an Online Patient Account is a solution that each of us knows, only in a slightly different edition. It is about services that operate in other spheres of life: electronic banking, online shop. That's normal. We want to introduce the same standards into the health system. [[Amendment 13, or you won't make it, Minister.]] Member, I wouldn't forget. Amendment 13. - outpatient specialist care. This is an amendment that we accept with full awareness. We want to be able to annex. But nowhere does we say that this will be the reality. We realize that access to specialist doctors is one of the biggest problems that Poles are facing. You can see that in all the tests. That is why we are giving ourselves the opportunity to ensure the stability of the system on the one hand and not to deprive ourselves of the possibility of this competitiveness, but it is not said that we intend to use it on the other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, what about three more minutes? Okay, well, I'll try in a minute and a half to get the gentleman here... [[Voice from the room: But no longer.]] I think that the question asked by Professor Chybick is very important, because this is information about the amounts allocated to individual benefits and the amount of contributions. She spoke about social solidarity. And that's very right. Law and Justice is just a party of social solidarity. It doesn't seem to raise any doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u276	But substantively, Minister, because if you say things like that, I'm not gonna prolong it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Ad rem, good. On the other hand, information about the amount spent on benefits, the amount paid for the contribution is intended to build public awareness about how public funds are spent and how They go back to the citizen after he pays the fee. This isn't about making someone feel bad because we spent more on him and less on someone else. We spend PLN 100 billion a year on a public health system. It's about knowing where the money goes. It's a spending map for everyone. And one last thing, safety. This is extremely important. Well, ladies and gentlemen, safety is so great that when we now wanted to examine whether, in the context of these recipes issued in pilotage, one of the patients did not get this drug, which the chief pharmaceutical inspector withdrew, it turned out that we were not able to do so, because it is so encrypted that they were unable to do so by the system's creator. Only in the next issue, which will be mid-October, will the depersonalization of the data be followed by analytical functions. I, of course, believe in the invention of those who wanted to acquire this data, but if the creators themselves are unable to decipher it, ladies and gentlemen, then I think we have nothing to fear. The safety priority has been and will always be in all health IT activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to address some of the questions, especially as regards Amendment 5. The concerns of my colleagues in the Health Committee. You are concerned, especially Mr Miller, about opioids. I'd like to point out that the doctor doesn't record drugs. These are opioids, not narcotics. Even recipes look different now, they're not pink, they're white. These aren't narcotics, I assure you. They're opioids. The doctor doesn't record drugs. As regards your other concerns, I would like to say that in Article. 38c of this bill is information about how orders are issued. Orders can be issued after a personal physical examination of the recipient or a physical examination through IT systems or communications systems, so here there is no fear and there is no fear that insulin will be written down to a person who does not have diabetes, or opioids to someone who does not need them. It must simply be after a medical examination, after a direct medical examination or on the basis of documentation. [[But there was no such charge, Madame, there was a charge of danger.]] No... One of the gentlemen said that if anyone wanted to get more muscle growth, he'd ask the doctor to issue him a prescription for insulin, and this one would be brought in. Yeah, that's... [[But could there be a fake prescription?]] What do you mean, a fake prescription? [[Could it be a fake prescription sent to the pharmacy?]] No, I don't assume it's an option like a fake prescription. I don't know. Minister? [[But what will the Minister help you with?]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: If I could speak...]] Yeah, I'd love to, because when it comes to falsifying documents, I don't have any experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u278	Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion is becoming extremely unconventional. Until a point, I have tolerated it, but my patience is running out. [[But I think the roles are wrong.]] Minister, if you'll excuse me, let me continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u279	I'll pass. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: May I respond?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u280	No... You're giving up, aren't you? Good. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u281	No, I'm not giving up. I'm sorry, but I'm not giving up. I just don't have the experience of falsifying documents and I don't think such documents are to be falsified, because other rules show that there must be complete data from the provider, the recipient. It seems impossible to hack into the system, but I'm not an IT guy, I'm an MP and a doctor. If you could ask the Minister for help, I would ask very much. I didn't give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u282	Okay, but you've finished your speech, Madame Member, haven't you? [[Voice from the room: As you can see.]] [[Voice from the room: Unknown.]] Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u283	Here the case is extremely important, I think, which is credibility. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what electronic prescriptions are used for - they will be signed safely each time, they will be sent to the pharmacy via a central system, which is also secured. I was just telling you about these safeguards. Also today one of the pharmacists, commenting on our work, said that the paper prescription is able to forge just any junior. That's the opinion of the pharmacist. I don't think it's that easy, but I'm sure electronic recipes can't be forged right now. [[Probably just some computer guy.]] Therefore, we want to computerize the system even more and introduce prescriptions, referrals, electronic medical records so that the level of safety is higher. It also serves to introduce uniform standards, which the project also talks about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u284	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The regulations contained in this amendment are another step towards complete informationization of health services, which is of great importance to facilitate the functioning of both patients and doctors in this system. The solutions envisaged in the project include: regulations concerning the patient's online account, so that every patient in Poland will have remote access to the history of his or her treatment, electronic medical records, prescriptions and referrals. The IKP will also allow another person to have access to medical records or to make statements of intent on behalf of the patient, as well as consent to medical benefits. I am convinced that the transfer of these key information from the point of view of our health to the network, the creation of the so-called. In addition to allowing rapid access to important information for patients - which is a value in itself - an electronic health card will also help to improve the quality of our benefits. Importantly, many patients will be able to make direct contact with a doctor who will be able to review the history of the diseases they have had without having to ask questions about things that are often forgotten after years. In addition to solutions related to the operation of the IPK, this bill also contains, among others. provisions enabling nurses and midwives to issue prescriptions during a telemedical consultation. The purpose of these regulations is undeniable, given the undisputed competence of the representatives of these professions. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u286	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forestry tax. This is print number 2776. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 07 hrs. 17 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity and certain other laws (prints No. 2719 and 2748). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity and some other laws. In the justification of this project we read that the main objective of the proposed amendment is to optimally exploit the potential of two institutions: the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, acting on the basis of the Act of 9 November 2017 on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, and the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki, acting on the basis of the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Center for Totalitarian Research was established two years ago as a cultural institution. The task of the centre is to introduce in a modern way the Polish experience of two totalitarians into the memory of the world and to create an advanced Polish-English digital database of personal certificates talking about the German and Soviet occupation restoring the memory of these events to Poles, as well as giving them access to an international audience. The Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, established a few months ago as a research institute under the Ministry of Culture, began to operate on the basis of the same logic as the establishment of the centre. The merger of the two institutions will lead to a real breakthrough in research into the German and Soviet occupation in Poland and create space for international discussion and exchange of views, in order to use this potential to nurture historical memory and educate contemporary societies. This will create much better organisational and financial conditions for these activities. Many years of delays related to the reality of the Polish People's Republic in presenting their own experience of World War II on the international stage and the growing importance of good historical policy in interstate relations justify the creation of multidisciplinary, effective and competent institutions. In order to emphasize the scope and importance of the Institute's activities, applicants propose to supplement its name by referring to one of the largest Polish heroes of the 20th century rtm. Witold Pilecki, who symbolizes the consecration of the Polish nation in the fight against totalitarianism of Hitler and Soviet. High Izbo! On 17 July this year, the Committee on Culture and Media carried out its first reading of the bill submitted and examined it by introducing an amendment to it, supplementing it with a transitional provision on implementing rules, and gave a positive opinion with one abstention. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I would like to ask the High House to adopt the draft Act on the amendment of the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity attached to the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u288	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill clearly refers to a series of activities of Law and Justice, which talk about the necessity of Polish historical policy. The creation of institutions involved in researching Polish history, then its popularization clearly showed that there are still a lot of fields not fully explored or which have already been partially forgotten, because during the period of the Polish People's Republic there were fields that were not wanted to deal with at all, and there were also some which were for some reasons uncomfortable. Even institutions such as the Institute of National Remembrance, created many years ago, focused on the social needs, first on the so-called. white spots, on these topics, which were completely falsified during communism, for example on the history of soldiers cursed, but also on the history of the Polish Underground State. It turned out that the actions of the two invaders in Polish lands during World War II are such a slightly forgotten topic - also researchers at universities did not deal with it in part - and Polish-Jewish relations have become a topic in the last months or weeks, which as a very important issue returns to public debate, also in the contemporary context. Therefore, Poland must have institutions that can, first of all, go back to research or start researching some periods of modern history again, so that there are reliable sources, reports of witnesses that would allow the facts of the Polish historical narrative to be based, and, second, when a large part of the sources - and even earlier, on the basis of some of the collected ones - are already able to be gathered - should be sought to hold a historical debate on issues that are still up to date. And both of those institutions that this bill connects have already tried to do it. The Center for Research on Totalitarianism began collecting certificates of Polish citizens who experienced the cruelty of both invaders, or their families and their loved ones. In part, there have been use of the certificates gathered for the purposes of the Nuremberg trials, which have been the basis for the accusation of German criminals and their sentences. Many of these certificates have been completely forgotten. Today, they need to be rebuilt and made available not only to Poles, because Poles as such function as awareness of what the period of occupation looked like. This must also be made clear to the international community. It turned out that so far the work in the form of cultural institutions does not allow to carry out large-scale research, hence the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude established a few months ago, which, when applying for decorations to those who helped Polish citizens during World War II, must conduct historical research, conduct historical research. and partially carry out similar tasks as the Center for Research on Totalitarianism. Hence the idea of combining the two institutions so that they do not compete with each other, but rather cooperate with each other or support each other in their activities. Since a formal merger is not possible, therefore the need to abolish the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism and include it in the Institute of Fortitude and Solidarity as a scientific institute. Following this institute will also have a scientific council that will support these activities, it will be a kind of further research institute, but dealing with a specific fragment of our latest history. That is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this connection, because that is what it should be called in practice, although it is formally the embodiment of one institution to another. This will be done with the existing achievements of both institutions. The staff of the research centre will be part of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, so it will continue the research that has already been carried out there, as well as the research that is ongoing, will be able to continue peacefully. The provision on the possibility of financial transfers for the following years will allow for a calm financial policy. So that the Law and Justice Club will of course support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u290	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u291	High Seym! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Draft amendment of the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude and inclusion of it in the competence of the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki is justified both in the area of activity of both institutions and in the state budget. The Civic Platform Club in the Committee on Culture and Media, after reading the draft amendments, agrees with the proposal contained in the parliamentary project, recognising that any form of activity for dissemination and broadening of knowledge about the tragedy resulting from totalitarianism is correct. Polish experiences resulting from totalitarianism certainly distinguish our country's victim among the affected countries. As the years pass, there are no living monuments of history, which are undoubtedly memories of witnesses of that time. The moment has come when their voice must be done skillfully. It must be a audible voice, but above all a credible voice. Therefore, an extremely important aspect for the future of the combined institutions is the ability to reach the awareness of the citizens of the world in an accessible way. This combination of institute and centre obliges, so it requires great wisdom in managing and treating this mission with immense piety. Otherwise, perhaps the only good, but also the last opportunity to speak openly about the effects of totalitarianism, will be lost forever. The world's focus will be on modern threats, and history will be erosion, the truth will be covered up. History, especially with blood so marked, cannot be compared. Nor must it be adapted to its own needs. Otherwise, this will have the opposite effect, as we are now witnessing in our relationship with Israel, although this is an incomprehensible discrepancy. For there are two nations most affected by German totalitarianism, leaving the perpetrators outside the discussion. But, ladies and gentlemen, we see inaccuracies in the logic of the action. The combined institute will function under the patronage of the hero and victims of two totalitarians, captain Witold Pilecki, a man of great heroism, who challenged the Nazis, entering the hell of Auschwitz, who was unjustly murdered by Stalin's oppressors and finally forgotten by history for a decade. But at the same time, with violation of the constitution - contrary to the law - you deprive Judge Stanisław Zabłocki of the right to perform the mission of the Supreme Court judge. He's a defense attorney in the rehabilitation process of Captain Pilecki. It was Judge Zabłocki who gave the captain the last report in the closing speech of the defender. He's the man who made Witold Pilecki's character deserving in our consciousness. I repeat, where is the logic? You're releasing judges from their constitutional duty to serve society according to your interpretation of the law. You are cleaning up among people who pose a risk to your own order, which is thoughtless and without concern for society as a whole. You are depriving yourself of the public functions of those who threaten to put a violent reality in place by you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the care of memory and totalitarianism, while you are using methods that - perhaps - will study this institute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u292	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the draft law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity and certain other laws. The aim of the proposed amendment is to combine the two institutions, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude and the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki. The correct direction is only the question of why it could not be done immediately, because these questions were already raised at the committee meeting at the time of the establishment of the institute. At the time, it was said that it would perform other tasks than the centre, and it could simply be given new competence to the centre, to change its structure and to finance it so that the legislative process would not have to be conducted again. It could have been done rationally, calmly and accurately. We remember how quickly this printing was posted at the end of the year. This print was first uploaded... First of all, we moved the money in the budget to a specific institution, which had a different name and only later was the institution itself established. We as a Kukiz club15 are also interested in how to date these funds have been spent, which have been transferred to the Institute because there was not much information about the Institute's work. And there was information about the logo competition, but there was not much information about the actions themselves. Hence, we are curious how so far the list of costs that have been incurred by the Institute is presented. We also want to raise a question such as the duplication of certain competences with the competences of the Institute of National Remembrance. Since it turns out that we are linking the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude with the centre of them. Witold Pilecki, maybe it's worth another look at what the IPN is doing. Is it not worth simply passing on certain competences to an organizational cell, or is it not worth simply passing on these different tasks to one institution? What else is there to carry out tasks that have not yet been carried out by the State. As to the validity of these goals of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, there was no comment at all, because research on the latest history is needed, recognition is needed for those who helped Poles during World War II, it is ultimately necessary to present history from a Polish point of view in foreign languages. For this, however, we do not need to appoint further institutions. Let's stop with the mania that we have, the problem, the problem, there's a purpose, and of course we're starting right away from what? Since the establishment of institutions, companies, organizations, because they're supposed to solve our problem. They won't do it because it doesn't guarantee an efficient task. But it is guaranteed that we will certainly spend more public money just on the administration. The Kukiz Club15 will support the merger of these two institutions, because we are in favour of carrying out in the state just such a comprehensive review of the administration, which simply grows on the social fabric of such a parasite and generates more and more costs. We have far too few people to put on the state budget for those that are paid at all from this budget. We need to mentally shift to saving, because we have a growing debt and deficit every year. Therefore, the creation of increasingly new institutions, which we later need to update, which we later need to combine, is a direction in which we should not go, although the tasks, as I mentioned earlier, which are being carried out by these institutions, are right. However, the smooth management of these institutions is also important from the state's point of view. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I just wanted to point out one thing, one thing, namely that so far the actions, the achievements of the institute, as well as the centre, could be said, were not particularly great, because it is difficult to consider the compilation of 4,000. Terror records, since they admit that after the various archives of such accounts, more than 100,000 are distributed. The subject of research of the Institute affects a very important area of the latest history of Poland, subjecting our nation to the devastating influence of two totalitarians: Hitler and communist in the years of the Second World War and during the period of the People's Poland. The collection and uniform compilation of data on these important sources in our history is a great and very necessary work, so let us hope that the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude will fulfil this task. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary Modern is against and combining both institutions, and in general the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. The Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude is in such a literal sense the implementation of propaganda, a certain historical policy, which is a huge threat to the Polish society, because it is such an attempt to infantise the Polish society. Poles, as we know, were only heroes, are only a unique nation, which is simply, in some extreme way, glorified by you, and we need critical thinking, such as was proposed by Władysław Bartoszewski or Melchior Wańkowicz. Mrs Elizabeth Raven, chair of the Committee on Culture, talks about the fact that eventually this story will be properly investigated, in the end we will really tell the truth about this story. Well, Polish historians and Polish historians have long studied history, and the newest one, and the one from the time of World War II, and are very successful in the research field. I would like to remind you of the names of Jan Grabowski or Barbara Engelking. Both professors in a way... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, in this context, especially in this context, Mr. I would like to tell you that there is another institution that will combine such primitive propaganda, because it joins the Museum of Memory and Identity of Rydzyk. It's something you just can't tolerate. This is also the situation in which Prime Minister Gliński is making a coup at the Museum of World War II, where the tragedy of war was finally told, about how people suffered during World War II. And you guys just want to make war fun, cool story. Because this attempt to infantise Polish society will not succeed, because the Polish society is extremely critical, it is extremely insightful if it has the chance and if it has reason to enter a real significant social discourse. I don't have any good news for you. The law, which was proceded here a few weeks ago, which was invented by Minister Jaki, compromised Polish society, first of all compromised the state government. It turned out that this law, which is not necessary at all to anyone, to Poles or non-Polish people, to anyone, is a law which should not exist at all. It is also an example of how it is created and featured and how public opinion is deceived. Therefore, we will not support your work - just because this propaganda and axiological sequence you are proposing is not only harmful to Polish society, but also misleading public opinion. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u298	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PSL-UED Posel Club for obvious reasons, which were already very clearly presented by Mr Mieszkowski, but not only will not support this project. A river of lies has already spilled here, which was poured out by the Members of the PiS. There's only two words I can say. By the way, Mr Po: I thought that after this conclusion - you presented here how the PiS is breaking the law, the constitution, throwing away judges, etc. - at least you'll hold off voting on this project. I mean, this project... I do not understand how it is possible to see all this and, speaking of it, vote in favour of a project that is part of PiS's historical policy. You call it, I guess, a new-historic policy that... [[Polish.]] Not Polish. PiS-Polish, anti-Polish, hostile to Poland. This is a policy which - to say the shortest - is: Poland was always right, crimes were not us, Jews were actually, for a good cause, they murdered themselves and reported, there were no folksdocks, there were no moneymakers, all this is not true at all. Actually, the National Army disappears, they were just so-called. Soldiers cursed. They were the main heroes, they were the saints. Actually, canonize. All of them. There was no Bure, there was no signed declaration of Polish-Israeli relations, a mindless, harmful declaration, somewhere in secret negotiated by Mossad. I don't want to go into this anymore because Mr. Gliński denies it very strongly - but if you deny something, Mr. Gliński, it's generally true. It's in this declaration, for example. equalisation of the Holocaust with the so-called Anti-Polonism. It takes a lot of imagination to equalize the murder of European Jews by the Nazis with speeches that resulted from foolishness, from non-utility. After all, no one denies in the world that the concentration camps were Nazi, German in Poland. Nobody says they were Polish. You guys are fighting a myth that you're creating. You're overthrowing the lies you're making. There was a view, there was a view that this institute... What kind of name is that anyway? The Institute of Fortitude. It smells like Orwell. The Ministry of Truth. This is Orwell. You guys... It was supposed to be a concept of the Polish Yad Vashem. Well, I can tell you who's the Minister of Culture, Yad Vashem. Also disappears in this new historical policy in general some elementary decency. You start education not society - not society, just educate yourselves. You, your prime minister. I'm just gonna say a few things, 'cause there's no time for a longer lecture. Mr Morawiecki was kind to say that Hungary and Poland have similar experiences from World War II. And who was Ferenc Szálasi, Mr Morawiecki? Do you know that? Maybe you haven't heard of it. Ferenc Szálasi. Hungary was Hitler's ally to the end, the most faithful. In April 1945 in Hungary, Hungarian troops together with the Nazis fought to keep Budapest in the area of the Third Reich. It was, I understand, a common experience for Hungary and Poland. You're gonna educate your friend who's been studying Katyn's history from prewar books, or your marshal who's talking about the Turks at Grunwald. Well, that's very interesting, that's very interesting knowledge. Your marshal certainly made a very valuable contribution to history. In general, PiS's historical policy led to conflict with Israel, to unleash anti-Polish sentiments in the West, to complete ridicule and to compromise the Polish state, to bad relations with Ukraine. This emphasis everywhere and on every occasion of the Volyn slaughter, what is it supposed to serve? Are you looking for the electorate? With the vaccines, maybe you'll find a bigger electorate to control the vaccination. This is the destruction of good relations. They are very happy about this in Moscow. It is the destruction of good relations with Ukraine by waving, when necessary and not necessary, the issue of Volyn. This is a classic example of irresponsibleness. Bad relations with the Germans. This historical policy has led to absurd claims... There's still a few minutes left. [[Voice from the room: One second.]] ...to Germany about the so-called. compensations. In short, the word "Institute" in Poland is very bad - these institutes are enough - as in Stalinist times the word "government" was very bad. For these reasons and for many other reasons, the PSL-ED Posel Club will not support this harmful, absurd, unnecessary, and very expensive revision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u300	We have concluded here, ladies and gentlemen, with statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking questions? I'm closing the list. I am the first to ask the question of Mr Michael Szczerba. I can't see. Then I will ask Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u301	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask because I didn't get the exact answer at the committee meeting, which was spent on the money we spent on the institute of bravery already existing. What's the math about that little money? I understand that you will say: for research, but this is very liquid. I'd like a written calculation. How much of that money is left? What was the money spent on? Now you want to connect two institutions. The question is, what is it supposed to do? That research should be carried out more widely and more substantively. Only these are very general statements, and I expect specifics that I did not receive at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u302	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not believe that someone can speak like you just said on behalf of PSL and UED, a professor from Flies Niesiołowski. [[Applause]] I can't understand how you talk like that. I don't believe he represented the PSL section, especially when he was talking about Volyn. It's just shocking to me. I'm sorry to start with this, but this is more important than the question I wanted to ask the Minister, even though I'm going to ask it. The problem is, Minister, that very often in the tasks of this Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude are tasks that I believe will be duplicated with tasks that the Institute of National Remembrance has. Especially because the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude has received really serious funding, therefore there is concern - although you have written down the need for cooperation between these two institutes, but I am afraid of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - that the Institute of National Remembrance will be duplicated by the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u304	Thank you. The question is asked by Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not much more than six months ago, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude was established as a research institute. During that time, the Center for Research on Totalitarianism was already in operation. Witold Pilecki. At the time of the establishment of the Institute, was it taken into account when it was built on the basis of the research centre mentioned above, or was that thought born after the institute started working? This combination seems to be fairly obvious, as this should make better use of the capacity of both institutions to achieve the common objectives, i.e. conducting research on the German and Soviet occupation in Poland, nurturing historical memory, educating contemporary societies. Will this combination create better organisational and financial conditions for broadening the scope of research, namely the implementation of the Centre's mission, and will it be more effective in contributing to international historical policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u306	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u307	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The inclusion in the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of mandatory cooperation with the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude makes it necessary for IPN to give part of its scope of activities and achievements and fields of activity to the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Meanwhile, IPN has developed itself and at the same time the Republic of Poland in a network of similar institutions from other countries a significant position in the framework of international cooperation. Is the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude to enter this harvest place now? Secondly, the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude seems to have led to many doubts or questions. The current amendment seems to dispel them, unfortunately to the detriment of the IPN and the historical policy of the Republic of Poland. Is that what this is about? And finally, as I listen here to the speeches of the educated, the professors, it's me, the worker, I wonder, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who gave them these diplomas and why they're gossiping so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u308	I now ask you to ask Mr Protasiewicz, PSL-UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stefan Kisielewski, a prominent Polish publicist, a very customs and sharp critic of absurdities that the Polish People's Republic created and the whole system of real socialism, used to say that socialism is such a system that solves problems created exclusively by him and unknown anywhere in the world outside just a socialist area. Well, I have the impression that we are dealing with exactly this law. The Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Minister of the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński, created one year after the year, two institutions, which by definition overlapped with competences. And today it eliminates, combines these institutions, announcing with pride that it will serve the Polish state's reason. Are you not aware of how you are ruining Polish law and how you ridicule the government and Poland with such initiatives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u310	The question will now be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u311	Ladies and gentlemen! It would seem that combining institutions in order to work better together for the sake of the Polish state is obvious and should not cause controversy. But the blasphemies that fell from this speaker from some Members, anti-Polish blasphemes - that is to say - force a certain reaction. Because the speeches of at least two Members indicate that unfortunately anti-Polonism is present not only outside the borders of Poland, but also among active Polish politicians. It's just psychic. I haven't heard of parliamentarians, for example. Germans were anti-Germans and with anti-German slogans performed in the Bundestag. Unfortunately, Polish Members in this Chamber do so. It's just a puriazum, an unacceptable thing. Minister! Is it so that apart from Poland, no one conducts historical politics, that other countries seem to write about the history of a given country sometimes pseudohistorics or researchers, who think of something and use only some sources, often presenting this nation in a negative light? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there one, five, three... How many institutions are involved in historical politics there? Does Poland have a similar number of institutions compared to other countries? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u312	Thank you, sir. The question is now asked by Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were no blasphemies here, sir. However, I would like different versions of historical politics to be presented in the Seym, because if not, we would be in a completely different reality and in a different system. [[Voice from the hall: But maybe it is in the interest of the Polish state.]] Yeah, maybe we shouldn't discuss it another time. All I wanted to say was that when the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude was established, we said: And the IPN, what is the IPN for? When he was formed, Minister Gawin praised the Center for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki, even the materials were sent to us, and it was all true. So either this facility was very good, or this institute was created completely unnecessary, because indeed the historical policy that you are running is one thing, and the combination of institutions that we have treated purely technically is another matter. And in conclusion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...I have to ask that question. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Is it true that this museum is to work with the director's father in Toruń?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u314	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u315	'Cause it's so... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u316	The discussion is closed... Excuse me. Now I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Magdalena Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I would like to start with such a general remark that although Mr Niesiołowski wants us all to lower ourselves to his level, I will not allow it, I will not speak such a language. I cannot respond to such arguments because of their offensive character - not only offensive to institutions that I supervise, not only offensive to people whom I respect very much and who work very hard and work for Poland, not PiS-owska, not Poland from the Platform, not Poland from Kukiza, only Poland at all [[Applause]] - but also because of this kind of aggression that I simply reject. Mr Niesiołowski said something about shame that we promote shame. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the records of terror from the Radom and Kielce villages. Mr. Niesiołowski left today. Mr. Niesiołowski hasn't seen anything, he hasn't prepared himself, and he has no idea what the resort does. Therefore, I must point out that I will not simply refer to his insults and insults. I can't do this. [[Applause]] As far as the other questions are concerned, I'm going to try to collect them now. It seems to me that there is one question that has emerged, which appears most often since the establishment of the Center for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki, as well as ISiM, does not duplicate the Institute of National Remembrance. Dear Members, we really must all learn this. We have a country that has 37 million people who have an extremely complicated history. In Western Europe, there is still a memory that I call the poaltanian memory. This memory was preserved, some false codes of memory, because Poland was a country ruled by communists, censored, a country from which it was impossible to leave, in which freedom of speech was smothered, and Poland could not conduct its own historical policy in the sense of: telling the truth about what happened to it. To break this, we can't drop all our assignments on the Institute of National Remembrance. I've talked about this many times. The tasks that both ObnT and ISiM perform - and now we will just talk about these institutions: the Pilecki Institute - are not tasks that belonged to the Institute of National Remembrance at all, and we need them to be realized, necessary to bring the history of Poland and Central and Eastern Europe into the memory of the world. You fellow Members say you understand what the resort does, but unfortunately, I have the impression that it is not. One of the Members has just mentioned that he thinks that this is not a great achievement of Pilecki, that for two years he has gathered 4,000. certificate records. Well, I was trying to get you out of a mistake. These are not certificate records, these are full of auditions that have been prescribed, very often from handwriting, properly tagged, which allow for a very quick search, and translated into English. It's something completely different. It is not easy to obtain these certificates. They are scattered in various investigations and trials. Many German institutions have already done a very similar job. I am no longer talking about the Jewish institutions which, I can say, are so exemplary when it comes to the country that has a historical policy. I don't know why Poland hasn't done this for so long. We have to do this. Of course, the center has developed a lot more certificates than 4,000, now it's about 7,000. certificates, so these works are moving very quickly. They require a very high level of discipline in the work we've put in place. I would also very much like to see a similar work discipline at the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, and I can only assure everyone that I provide this work discipline. I have been asked by the Member - I apologise very much, I do not remember all the names - from Kukiz.15, why this connection did not take place at the time of the parliamentary initiative and the decision that ISiM should be created. Let me explain. Pilecki's resort has been operating for almost 1.5 years. We had a very busy business and I had, I would say, very highly qualified people who knew how to handle it. Then creating an ISiM would mean... I mean, we couldn't connect these institutions. As you know, it is not legally possible to combine cultural institutions and the scientific institute. In order to be calm, I would say, set up a business and figure out how we can continue this institution, it just took time. The ISiM has been operating for 6 months and maybe I would also like to share with you - because that was also the question - what ISiM has done so far. The main task of ISiM was and is to reward people who helped Polish citizens who saved, mainly during World War II, although not only. During these six months, researchers and historians in ISiM analysed about 80,000. certificates, they've selected 250 people to decorate. In autumn 2018, the ISiM Remembrance Council will forward the first 11 completed proposals to the Presidential Palace on the basis of very meticulously completed documentation. During these six months 50 film notations were also recorded, i.e. interviews with witnesses of history in very different categories - these are prisoners of concentration camps, these are people who helped Jews during the war, they are also forced laborers, they are also witnesses of Volyn. I will no longer return to the arguments put forward by Mr Niesiołowski, but I would also like to refer indirectly to a fictional narrative created by Mr Mieszkowski. I wanted to tell you that I've only had a meeting with Professor Timothy Snyder for the last two weeks and with representatives of the Holocaust Museum, which you obviously have a right not to know. On the other hand, with regard to the institutions that I supervise and conduct, the relationship between universities and research centres looks very good. Everyone wants to work with us, and I'm very happy about it. There were also questions from Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Platform regarding money. The ISiM had 25 million zlotys guaranteed in this budget, and I can't exactly quote the amounts, determine the amount of money spent on the zloty. We spent very little because... [[Because this, I understand, is going to be the next year.]] These measures go on for years to come. I already explained at yesterday's cultural committee meeting that we don't have a seat yet, we don't have more expensive equipment. We could only buy one with a value of up to 10,000. We don't have any mixers or even technical instruments yet, so I can only assure you that we've spent very little of this amount. We spent as much as we had to spend on hiring researchers, historians, on trips, in foreign archives that are conducted in Germany, Poland, Israel and probably in other countries. In December, I also talked to Members about the importance of conducting an appropriate archival policy, because many appropriate answers to a lot of questions are placed in the archives. Poland had extremely neglected archives. It's a very long story and a story of why it happened. We did not collect the most important archives from state archives in other countries. We're only doing this now. I also told you in December that we should take over recently declassified materials as soon as possible. War Crimes Commission was such a committee established in 1943 to investigate the crimes committed by the Third Reich. We already have her file. They're already in Poland. Half a million files. These files are extremely important because they show the enormous effort of the Polish underground state, the London Government, the National Army, intelligence and counter-intelligence involved in informing the Allies about genocide carried out on or taking place against the civilian population of different nationalities. And that's the evidence we already have. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the fact that, in the end, I would very much like this to be a research facility. Yes, sir. I was also asked... Maybe I'll go back to the issue of differences with regard to the Institute of National Remembrance. The Institute of National Remembrance does not have the right to award scientific titles, it cannot conduct regular doctoral seminars. This is the first institution to have the right to do so. Research that hasn't been done... We have seen how many undeveloped areas there are when it comes to the history of the German occupation in particular. It was because... As part of the research institute, we can set up regular scientific teams, simply research teams that will be able to regularly prepare doctoral work that will be able to conduct... We'll also be able to do scientific work. This is extremely important for scientists. This is the first such institution, which in the research regime, including roads, scientific pathways, scientific careers, will be... I've worked in scientific institutions for over 20 years. For a scientist, it is extremely important whether he has the right to do his doctorate on the spot, to stand before his own scientific council or to do so elsewhere. The Institute of National Remembrance doesn't have the powers that the research center has. Once again, I stress: Not one task has been taken away from the Institute of National Remembrance. I can only assure you, sir, that we are taking care of obtaining certificates from the German and Soviet occupations. We are now signing agreements with the Jewish Historical Institute. There's about 8,000. certificates submitted before the historical commission of Polish Jews. The story studied on the basis of sources is quite different than the one that appears in the publication. I should also say that in Poland there is a very aggressive and unambiguous tone in the publication, which does not find complete support in historical sources. In order to carry out this type of research, we simply need to create good working conditions for Polish and foreign scientists. I have not said this yet, but there will be major scientific exchanges, mainly with American students, but not only with other researchers who are unable to reach Polish sources because they do not speak Polish. I would just like to say that we are very good at working with American, English, German and Israeli historians. In December 2018, at the University of Warsaw, we organize a large scientific conference devoted to Rafał Lemkin and the influence of Polish law on post-war legislation regarding the trial of war crimes. I tried to answer most of the questions. [[Member of Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Museum.]] Excuse me? [[Member of Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Museum.]] I have to say, I'm really surprised at this question at all, because I don't know what level we're supposed to be working with the museum on. I'm thinking about it. [[They're building relationships, too.]] That's very good, because in each country these relationships are collected by very different entities. I don't see anything wrong with that. I just don't know how the science center is supposed to work with the museum. I don't know what I have just... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I believe that was the information of Mr Niesiołowski. I don't think I should just refer to that kind of information. I can only say that we are very open, we cordially invite you to the meeting of the cultural committee, so that you may see what the work of both institutions looks like. [[Voice from the room: Are there any resolutions, Minister?]] I'd like to say something very important. Indeed, we had a discussion in Poland about the history of Poland, a very turbulent, press and international, which should make all Members aware of the importance of a wise historical policy, which is and will always be very necessary for all governments and Poland, and what leads us to, I would say, omissions in this area. The arguments that emerged there... We did - among others. Pilecki's centre did so - a very thorough analysis of all press articles concerning Poland, which were published in the most important foreign press. This analysis revealed an incredible sea of ignorance, ignorance. This should convince us once and for all that every country in Europe and in the world is pursuing a historical policy, and therefore Poland should lead it all the more. Honourable Members! Thank you so much for all your comments. I would very much like to develop this discussion in the clausades, but I believe that Pilecki's centre, or actually the Pilecki Institute, because that is what we will call this institution, has a long name: the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. We'd rather use a shorter name. I would like to tell you that we know Yad Vashem, we all say Yad Vashem, but the full name is the Institute of Martyrs' Memory and Heroes of the Holocaust. We also speak the Hoover Institute, and the full name is The Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace. Nobody uses those long, full names. That long name is needed, it's consistent... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. It is consistent with the figure of Witold Pilecki, but in short we can use the name: Pilecki Institute. I am convinced that this institution will carry out its tasks and that it will serve Poland well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u318	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on subscription fees (prints No. 2501 and 2749). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. In the justification of this report we read that the project aims to bring Polish law into line with the principles of the common market. In accordance with the preliminary opinion adopted by the Directorate-General. The European Commission's competition on 10 May 2011 with regard to the compatibility of the current system of financing Polish Television SA with the common market rules, the financing of TVP through subscription fees and subsidies from the State budget constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article. 107. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The preliminary opinion stresses that this aid should be considered existing and compatible with the common market. However, as highlighted by the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. The European Commission's competition, the system of financing public television in Poland itself, requires full consideration of all public aid rules for public broadcasters set out in the European Commission's Communication on the application of State aid rules to public service broadcasting of 27 October 2009. The preliminary opinion identifies areas where there are reasonable doubts as to whether they are fully regulated in our legal system in accordance with the Communication. Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development Competition stressed the need to clarify the definition of the public service mission, to establish a procedure for prior assessment of the envisaged significant new media services, to introduce clear legislation on the limitation of public funding to the net costs of the public service mission and to supervise possible overcompensation in this respect, to regulate the principles of effective oversight of the quality of the public service mission. The draft law implements the provisions expressed in the communication to the Polish legal order in order to fill the legal gaps identified by the European Commission. At the same time, it is the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Poland agreed with the European Commission in this respect, which were adopted by the Committee for European Affairs of the Council of Ministers on 21 September 2017. High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media of 21 June 2018 carried out the first reading of this draft law and appointed an emergency subcommittee to work on the Act. The subcommittee examined the bill on 3 July this year. During the work of the subcommittee, a number of legislative, linguistic, codification and substantive amendments were made to the draft. On 17 July this year, the Committee on Culture and Media examined the subcommittee's report, introducing four amendments to the report amending the legal terms. The Commission adopted the subcommittee report with one abstention. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I would like to ask the High House to adopt a proposal to amend the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees attached to the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u320	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. The main objective of the revision of the Radio and Television Act and the subscription is to align the rules with the 2011 European Commission's position requiring maximum clarification of the public media mission and to reduce State aid to public media. The preliminary opinion identifies areas where there are reasonable doubts as to whether they are regulated in our legal system fully in accordance with the Communication. Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development Competition stressed the need to clarify the definition of the public service mission, to establish a procedure for prior assessment of predictable relevant new media services, to introduce clear legal provisions for limiting public funding to the net costs of the public service mission and to supervise its possible compensation in this respect. The main assumptions of the proposed amendment are to clarify the definition of the public service mission of public broadcasting units and the catalogue of their mission tasks. The public service broadcasting tasks resulting from this public service mission have been complemented, inter alia. about online activities and digital technologies. Importantly, the amendment also introduces in Article. 21a a duty card specifying the mission tasks of public service broadcasters. The Charter will be the result of an agreement between the sender and the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. In line with the amendment, the broadcasters will set out, with the chairman of the National Council, the provisions of the Charter, which projects will be carried out on a public mission and the plan to finance them both from public funds and from commercial activities. The draft plan will be submitted to the National Radio and Television Council by the end of April, but its final version is to be agreed and published by the end of November. These plans will form the basis for the transmission by the National Council to broadcasters of broadcasting subscriptions. These measures will not be higher than the net cost of the public service mission, i.e. expenditure on projects carried out under this mission less the revenue from these projects. According to the amendment, public broadcasters will have the right to retain a maximum of 10% measures from the National Council if they bear less than the planned net costs when implementing the public service project. Larger surpluses will have to be returned to the regulator. The amendment provides, in accordance with the preliminary opinion, for the creation of a so-called procedure. prior assessment of the envisaged significant new media services. Any significant new public service after public consultation will be assessed in terms of its public value and impact on the market. An important element of the amendment is also the principle of supervision of the quality of the public service mission, among others. by clarifying the reporting obligations of broadcasters and extending the supervisory powers of broadcasters. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is used to implement the provisions expressed in the Communication into the Polish legal order, filling the gaps created historically. In view of the fact that the provisions presented in this proposal align the provisions with the position of the European Commission in 2011, the Law and Justice Club will support and vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u322	Thank you. Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current modification of the Act on Radio and Television without exaggeration could be described as a breakthrough in the history of public broadcasters. I actually don't know if it's possible to talk about public broadcasters anymore, rather about national broadcasters, but according to the principle that a monastery is longer than a Prior, I prefer to think that these are still public media, or at least someday they will. Back to the revision, the most important issue for me is the inclusion of public media so-called. a duty card, a solution used for example in the English BBC and required in the European Union. The Charter is nothing more precise than our previous definition of a public mission, a record of any activity that can be financed by public funds. On the one hand, the European Union is committed to ensuring that competition is not distorted in all markets, including the audiovisual services market, but on the other hand it is a supporter, even a fan, of public media and the financing of their production from public money. This may raise the opposition of broadcasters who are committed exclusively to market financing of their activities - it can wake up and wake up, also in Poland, especially since our national television and our national radio do not give up advertising, sponsoring or other forms of market money making. The Charter is simply to say what can be, although it does not have to, financed by public money, i.e. a subscription and a budget grant. In order to ensure proper implementation of the Charter, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, as if the second such entity, which, in the light of these statutory amendments, is strengthened - just as public broadcasters, so is the National Council of Radiophony and Television. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In order not to bore you with professional arguments, I will say this: the potential obligations in this revision include actually everything that the public media does. They do and they could do tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. These are issues of new technologies, development, in general technology, media, etc. At the same time, the National Radio and Television Council exercises control over it at least every five years by signing or not having an appropriate agreement with individual broadcasters. The whole procedure, the investigation into the agreement, its shape and effects are public, publicly available, and it is undeniably huge plus these records. If the sender twists something so I say colloquially, then of course there are penalties, and here the national council is very pleased to receive control instruments for broadcasters. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports this solution because this is the only way to see whether the introduction of European standards in the field of media activity means the adoption of European standards in the area of freedom of expression, quality, independence of journalists' work, pluralism, objectivity and integrity of radio and television broadcasts. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but it seems to me that without the second charter of duty, this time the duties of the next squads in charge of these values, which I just mentioned, earlier none, even the largest public media money. They're not gonna save us. The Act is to apply from 1 January 2020. There is time to prepare this second card, for which I warmly encourage the other opposition clubs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u324	Thank you. Mr Elżbieta Zielińska, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. The changes envisaged are due to the need to comply with Union law, mainly concerning the adaptation of the definition of the public service mission, the creation of a procedure for prior assessment of the envisaged new public-funded media services and the principles of oversight of the quality of the public service mission. I would like to refer mainly to the issue of public service and supervision of it, because we talk about it quite often. I also feel that when we have this discussion, we talk not so much about the mission itself, but about what is simply written in the law, and of these most important things we do not touch everything. The main problem is not the definition itself, but the real achievement of the objectives set by this mission. Usually, we focus mainly on publicism in political life, although, it has to be said, it is only part of the mission being carried out, but we are too rarely referring to the rest, and here, unfortunately, there is also a lot of bad going on. Will the proposed changes change the public media situation in the implementation of the mission for better? We seriously doubt it as Kukiz'15. Except for the set message, nothing really happened here. And if the public mission were to meet the expectations, the needs of society, it would be based on the quality of the content transmitted, not just on the ratings. We still have a lot of commercial, tacky programs, advertising, and only programs that would be valuable to society could fall under public service mission, not boring, but those that would convey a message or a good movie or about literature or about health, about nature, about history. Some concerts, not a plastic crown of kings, or sporting events that are currently only and exclusively used to make President Kurski actually boast of the ratings. We would have a wide range of information not only from Poland, but also from the world, about the economy, about social affairs, about our fellow countrymen abroad, not just dry reports on government activities. This is very important because of raising the level of knowledge, awareness of what is happening in the world around us. And that's not there, and it won't be no matter how we change the definition. These are apparent changes, changes in the law, and they will still be apparent if there are simply people with vision and competence in the media. The issue of supervision in this project - I also feel that it will be implemented and clarified only in the draft law itself. Now there is also some kind of supervision, formally, but there is a lot of doubt about how it works. We really do not see this supervision of media in terms of quality, access to information, to relevant public content. The language that is present in public media is often aggressive and pushy. We're all made up of media, public or national media, if someone wants to judge them that way. They are financed by Polish taxpayers and each of us has the right to demand their quality. The amendment of the law will not improve the situation in the media, it will only improve the real work of professionals who will be able to make good use of the funds that are transferred from the state budget, not only to practice pro-government policies, but simply to develop social needs. The Kukiz Club15 has a negative view of the proposed amendment because it does not bring about the necessary change in public media and in the implementation of public media missions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u326	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the modern club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u327	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! First it's a quote. Art. 25 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland says: Public authorities in the Republic of Poland maintain impartiality in matters of religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs, ensuring freedom to express them in public life. And another part of the article. 25 Constitution: Churches and other religious associations are equally entitled. Programmes and other public radio and television services should respect the Christian value system as a basis for adopting universal ethics principles - that is, art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (6) of the Act on Radiophony and Television. When we put these two laws together, we can see incomprehensible advantages, and additionally not finding constitutional grounds, protection by public authorities of a system of values, which does not necessarily have to be universal, shared by all Polish citizens. In what ways are values other than Christian values worse, and why do they not deserve protection from the public media authority? Why do we allow axiological segregation in the media? This is one of those aspects that are extremely important in public life, because the constitution, ensuring worldview neutrality, gives us the opportunity to practice free thought, gives us the chance to create a world that is important for all citizens and citizens living in Poland. That's not in this bill. This record of Christian values, which must be respected, is also a restriction of the article. 54 of our constitution, which speaks of the world view we want to confess and to which we have the right. But there may also be an article at risk. 14 constitutions that talk about freedom of speech. So I think here is an extremely serious issue of the unconstitutionality of this law. The attempt and necessity to bind the Act on Radiophony and Television to European rules is obvious, but this record of respecting Christian values completely cancels the hard work done by some of the Members and Members of the Committee on Culture and we, in order to remain faithful to the Constitution, will not support it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u328	Now please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz, PSL-UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When I read this bill and listened to the debate that had been held so far in the High House, I could not help but think of the scene from the outstanding book. Adventures of a good Swedish soldier. Well, as Hašek describes, the escort soldiers decided to play in the living room. So what if the rules were like a really famous social salon game when everything else was more like a barracks atmosphere than a living room. And we are actually dealing with a very similar situation. A seemingly very correct law, including implementing the European Commission's recommendations on how public media should be financed, how a public mission carried out in the media in the Member States should be financed. On paper, everything seems very reasonable and sensible, but what is the reality? Reality is exactly like this drawing, like this graphic. This graphic shows the one-and-a-half-year implementation of the public mission, the purpose of which is, moreover, enshrined in this law, among others. the service of democratic, social and cultural needs of society and media pluralism. In the most important news programme of television - once called public and today national or if public, rather in this pejorative sense - what are news, we had representatives of the ruling camp, Law and Justice for 1,5 years, and only 131 representatives of the entire opposition, representatives of the Platform, Modern, Kukiz, 15, SLD and PSL. More than three times as many representatives and politicians of Law and Justice as those of the opposition. Does this in any way reflect the situation in this House, where there are some - a little - more - Members of law and justice? And whether it reflects Poles' sympathies expressed in the vote in 2015, when Law and Justice received only 37% of voters, less than 18% The whole community? It doesn't reflect to the slightest extent. When I look at you, and also at this graphics, I think of another scene with a game of salon music, this time already from Polish culture, from the film "Marek Piwowski," where there are only two participants, as you well remember: intelligent and brilliantly playing his role in the service of Stanisław Tym. There really one of them is trying to figure out who's spanking, and Stanisław is always saying, "It's not me." And we are dealing with exactly the same situation today, with an attempt to mystify, an attempt to pretend that public media are being built up in Poland with a European tooling, civilised tooling, and in fact we will still have to deal with a party, non-fulfilling public mission with national television, which is not financed by Poles, because they do not want to finance this quality of television, is financed by the state budget. I would like to ask, by the way, what about the loan of 800 million, which last year the state budget transferred to the Polish Television. Has it been cleared or returned? [[Voice from the room: That's not the subject.]] And I would also like to ask what the National Media Council, set up hastily, completely unnecessary by Law and Justice at the beginning of its term of office, whose operating costs last year were close to almost PLN 1 million. [[Voice from the room: Over.]] Five members of this Council, including only Members of Law and Justice, have received over 300,000 salaries. zł. Let me remind you, it's about 60,000. For a member, that's about 5,000. gross monthly. This is the reality of the functioning of public media in the Republic of Poland governed by Law and Justice. This law will not change the least of this practice, this barracks practice. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will have serious [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u330	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u331	...and he won't support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u332	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Revenue from public sources is intended, as stated on the Council of Ministers' website, to carry out a public mission, which is difficult to find in particular in public television information programmes. I ask the question: If commercial television carries out the mission, will it also be able to count on funding? Second question. Please indicate and explain exactly how the public service mission will be supervised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u334	Thank you. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you about this public mission, too. You've been talking so much about this public service mission that it's specified in this bill, but I don't see it exactly. I will ask for concrete details, this is once and two - the framework for financing public aid. I would also like to ask how much we have provided so-called loans since the beginning of our term of office. public media. I wouldn't mind if they were actually ours, common, but they're just PiS, and all of us, including me, are making up for them. I would like to ask for a precise calculation of how much money has been transferred from the beginning of the term to public television - in writing, if I may ask - in the form of a grant or in the form of a loan. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u336	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was the task of the Ministry, the government, to draw up a law that would lead to the European Commission's instructions clarifying the public mission so that public funds could be used to support public media in Poland. The purpose of this law was not to clarify the way in which this mission was carried out or to respond to how this mission was carried out in practice, and most of the questions were concerned. I will refer to specific comments or questions in both club speeches and questions. I'll try to give you some specific answers. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska said that the Act should apply from the beginning of 2020. I state that this law is to apply from the beginning of next year, which is 2019. Mr Mieszkowski expressed his grudge here. In his view, he noted a conflict between constitutional records and the laws concerning the Christian system of values. I think that Mr Mieszkowski is selective about the constitution itself, because the provisions on respect for the Christian system of values in the Constitution will find the Member. If you often use the constitution as a weapon of polemicism in various public debates, then I also expect you to go to certain parades with this constitution that call for the violation of the Polish constitution. There is, for example, in the Constitution. It's written down that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. I think that such a constitutional patriot as you should go to these parades with the constitution and remind those who advocate a change in the Polish constitution, what is the provision in the Polish constitution on this matter. [[Applause]] In answer to the specific question you have formulated, I would also like to say that the law does not contain any changes in Christian values. These provisions, which are in the Radio and Television Act, have been in force since the adoption of the Act, i.e. Since 1992 This amendment to the law did not touch this article at all. If you're presuming that such records are in the bill, please report these claims to the legislators of the 15th century, 26 years ago, because this is a record from that period. Mr Wojciech the King asked if he could make use of public funds if he carried out a mission, commercial television. Of course not. The Act entrusts the mission only to public media. Of course, it happens that commercial televisions perform wonderfully some part of the mission, play serious music, have some literary debates, etc. If commercial media do that, I'm losing it. Still, it's some kind of ownership decision. He wants to do it, he wants to do it, and he does it, but at any moment he can decide that he won't do it anymore. We, on the other hand, must, I think, have a guarantee in public space that there are media, and these are the public media that are obliged to carry out the mission regardless of the whims of the owner. By the way, I have to say, share this reflection in terms of many pretensions about the implementation of this mission, e.g. by public television that I attended yesterday at the invitation of the public television programme council at the meeting of this programme council. They wanted to hear the government's plans for the century of independence, so I was invited as a government proxy to celebrate the century of independence. By the way, I learned how many very interesting events are planned on virtually every public television network, events related to reflection on Polish history, connected with the century, but not only, what very interesting film, theatre, musical and entertainment events, which are related to reflection on Polish history, are planned on virtually all antennas. In my opinion, this is a very good fulfillment of the mission, which is what we expect from the public media. There is also the revival of the Television Theatre, which we see actually in the last two years, which resulted in the fact that at the Two Theatre Festival in Sopot, which has just ended, we could evaluate several dozen TV productions and dozens of radio productions. Even in quantitative terms, there is really a lot of progress here when it comes to the Television Theatre, with a very good audience, sometimes reaching as many as one million viewers for some theatrical performances. [[Applause]] This is also an example of the fact that this mission is a good fulfillment. Mr King also asked about sanctions if the mission is not being carried out. Yes, the national council will be armed with such an instrument. If she notes that the agreement relating to the implementation of the mission, with these obligations, is not implemented, she will be able to impose financial penalties on public media boards, so such an instrument will be at the disposal of the National Radio and Television Council. Mrs Zielińska also expressed a few doubts in her speech, Mrs Kukiz15. I'm answering. Firstly, the law does not change the definition of the mission, but merely clarifies it. Secondly, the Act does not regulate programming issues, but issues concerning the manner and mode of granting public aid. Third, the supervisory measures proposed in the project have also been considered appropriate by the European Union. I think that's all the doubts or questions I've written down. Thank you so much for allowing me to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u338	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community (prints 2670 and 2759). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki based on art. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland presented to the Sejm a draft law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. The opinion on the compatibility of the proposed legislation with European Union law is attached. At the same time, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki informed that the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development is authorised to present the position of the government on this matter. The project was accompanied by a justification and an assessment of the impact of the regulation, as well as by the opinion of the Foreign Minister on the compatibility of the project with European Union law, which shows that the draft law is not contrary to European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft concerns the interpretation of the Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b Regulation 1303/2013 of the European Union, i.e. a chapter on community-led local These cases have not been regulated in detail in the law - it is the law of 20 February 2005 on local development with the participation of the local community - and therefore this project has emerged. Maybe I won't discuss all the changes in detail. In any event, after the discussion at the committee meeting, the committee considered that legislative amendments had to be made to the draft and they had been introduced, legislative amendments, but also clarification amendments or other amendments not affecting the content of the legislative act itself. There's been a discussion. The discussion was substantive, about the bill itself. The questions concerned mainly differences resulting from the terms, e.g. The issue of operations, the issue of support. Details are in print No.2559, this is the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community, print No.2670. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 3 July 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 17 July 2018 request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. So much for me. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u340	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u341	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the draft law on printing 2670. The nature of the amendment to the Local Development Act of 20 February 2015 with the participation of the local community, briefly referred to as the RLKS Act, is determined by Community regulations, mainly by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013. The proposed law aims to improve and improve the efficiency of the implementation system of the RLKS Act. The amendments to the proposed law result from the experience gained during the implementation of this system. The proposed changes are mainly related to Article. Points 1 and 2 of the amending act will help to resolve the concerns regarding the scope of the assessment of operations by the local action group during the process of selecting operations. This law proposes adding a new provision indicating that the call for proposals will also include the conditions for selecting operations which the local action group may specify for the selection of proposals in order to ensure the fullest consistency of operations with the LSR. At the same time, it is proposed to add a new article in this amended law. 18a, which would indicate the possibility for the local action group to define such conditions for the selection of operations. Such a solution fully resolves the question of interpretation as to the possibility for local groups to identify specific actions for a given selection of operational conditions, which are based on an analysis of the current state of implementation of the LSR and the content of the LSR itself. The conditions for selecting operations as such may be of the nature concerned, i.e. those relating to operations or entities, i.e. to the applicant. In addition, it is proposed to introduce restrictions on the possibility of making substantial modifications to the request for support in the process of supplementing this request at the evaluation stage of the voivodship board. The new provision aims to indicate a clear ban on modifications affecting the outcome of the selection of operations by the local action group and thus to ensure that any changes to the proposal do not adversely affect the implementation of the LSR, which is crucial for the local action groups. This amendment will remove the obstacle in the form of a lack of consistency between the content of the request for support submitted by the applicant to the local action group, e.g. as regards the amount of support and the amount of support determined by the local action group as a result of the selection of operations. The introduction of the provisions in question to ensure that the implementation of the RLKS system is improved and more efficient may have a positive impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises to which support may be granted in accordance with the amended law, in particular by introducing clear rules for the investigation of this support. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please accept the bill presented above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u342	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The amendments proposed in the draft Local Development Act with the participation of the local community aim, firstly, to ensure consistency of operations with local development strategies by entities other than local action groups, secondly, to modify the proposals of local action groups by the Marshal's Offices, thirdly, to extend the deadline from 7 days to 14 days for improvement, to supplement the application by applicants for financial support, fourthly, to impose a task on local action groups, so that within 60 days they provide the management board with complete requests from entities applying for financial support for the implementation of tasks. Community-led local development is multi-fundal, and that is what we all understand, while from the impact assessment we learn that community-led local development co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 the funds available. By contrast, around 28% of the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund have been used up to now. the funds available. The least use is made of money under the Operational Programme "Fishing and the Sea" for the years 2014-2020. In this case, the use of money is around 17%. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about the following issues and ask him to clarify these doubts. Firstly, what are the reasons for such a low use of funding for the tasks carried out by local action groups co-financed by European funds? Secondly, according to the Ministry, what is the effectiveness of the operation of local action groups in this perspective? If the Minister had the data, as presented in the various voivodships, and presented it, I would be very obliged. Finally, I would like to ask: What will the government take to speed up the use of funding to carry out tasks within local action groups? As we understand the procedures and what the government has proposed regarding changes to the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community, these changes are positive, and the Civic Platform Club will therefore vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u344	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. Community-led local development is a relatively new instrument for projects financed by the European Union funds for the period 2014-2020. The Act entered into force in April 2015. In particular, the Act defines the tasks and competence of the authorities, in particular the voivodships' management and local action groups, mainly in the selection of community-led local development strategies, and the organisation of local action groups. It is about funding projects related to, among others. the development of entrepreneurship, the preservation of local heritage, the fight against social exclusion and the development of tourism infrastructure. Will the Law fulfill its purpose and to what extent? As we heard at the committee meeting yesterday, we look pretty good against the background of the European Union. It sounds quite enigmatic, which is why I hope that the Minister in his speech will refer more broadly and more specifically to the evaluation of the implementation of the law. Undoubtedly, the law and the proposed changes offer opportunities for local communities to become widely involved in decision-making on their development. Each region, each territorial unit has its own specific characteristics, which is why it is the local community that is best able to identify the strengths and weaknesses, as well as the potential risks and opportunities for rural development that it inhabits. The inhabitants themselves are perfectly able to identify ways of effectively developing and exploiting the potential of rural development, which can be achieved through support instruments. Over the years, we have seen dynamic changes in rural areas. We see that the village is moving strongly towards the development of non-agricultural functions. However, we still face a number of problems, such as hidden rural unemployment, low incomes of farmers, which are estimated to be 30%. lower than the income of urban residents, as well as poor development of road or social infrastructure. What the Polish village has in abundance is human capital. This potential should be exploited by increasing the social and economic activity of rural residents, and we should strengthen grassroots initiatives and support them. Therefore, Kukiz15 will support any initiative supporting local communities in their social and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u346	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present our position on the report of the joint committees: agriculture and local government on the draft law amending the law on local development with the participation of the local community. There were two reasons for this amendment. The first is to adapt, to take account of Community regulations, in particular the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 2013. But perhaps more important from the point of view of the provisions and changes in this law are issues related to the use of past experience in order to improve and improve the efficiency of the RLKS implementation system. This local instrument is not new. It was introduced in the 20072013 financial perspective at the level of the Rural Development Programme under the Leader initiative. Later, there was such a long discussion, whether to move this instrument - it is also about RYBA, to be precise, to be fully compatible - or to extend it to other funds. This decision was made, although it was optional, e.g. not all regions in the case of operational programmes have introduced this mechanism as mandatory. In fact, only two regions have fully complied with this solution: Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and Podlaskie voivodship. The rest have prepared other solutions in this area. In retrospect, because I also had personal experience with this aspect, every social activity is valuable, but it must also be acknowledged that in the case of these other programmes this instrument has not always been the most effective. I believe that the changes proposed here will contribute to making this action more effective, more efficient in terms of implementation, for the benefit of the local community. In view of the above, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u348	Mr Maliszewski made his statement in writing. So we move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was pointing out on the committee that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u350	Time - of course 1 minute. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u351	...there's a new category, a new concept...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u352	Mr. President, time is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u353	...a new concept emerges, namely the conditions for selecting an operation. We have the criteria for selecting an operation, and we have the conditions for selecting an operation. In the absence of a dictionary in the bill, this is a problem. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that these conditions for the selection of operations are intended to refer to the location of the operation, e.g. to determine the operator of the operation or the scope of the operation. My question is precisely about the subject of the operation, how much can be clarified here, because we are dealing in total with small areas and with a small number of potential actors that can carry out the operation. Isn't this going to be a very far-fetched instrument that will actually leave one or two players to choose from? I draw attention to this issue. And I also suggest that we look at this solution also in the context of the implementation of the National Rural Network Action Plan, KSOW, as it seems... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, I'll ask for half a minute, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u354	No, no, sir, finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u355	...that it would be advisable, because that's where we were dealing with a situation when they tried to carry out operations of different types of entities absolutely unprepared for it, and this narrowing would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u356	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about improving, improving access to EU funds. It is very important that we spend this money for sure, because it is money that will be lost, and that money should be used as much as possible in the Polish village. Here maybe two questions: How is the current level of EU spending related to what it was in the same period in the previous perspective? How does the Minister assess how spending these funds through this law will contribute to reducing disparities in rural development and urban development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u358	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for... Today we are investigating the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community, effectively referred to as the Local Development Act led by the community. In particular, it concerns decisions on technical changes which have already been discussed here by both the rapporteur and the Members who present the information in turn. There are four technical changes. In this part, the first remark concerned amendments to the law concerning the notice of recruitment in the form of selection conditions, the second, the possibility of modifying the application to the extent resulting from the setting by the local action group of the amount of support lower than requested. Another concern was the call of the applicant by the voivodship board and the extension of the deadline for the removal of deficiencies from 7 to 14 days and the indication not 45 days so far, but a 60-day deadline during which the LAG is obliged to carry out all activities. First of all - that's what we have to say - the RLKS is a new instrument. Community-led local development concerns multi-fundality. In addition to or in relation to previous statements, the Leader approach has been at the heart of policy, in particular the common agricultural policy and Pillar II since 2007. Let us remember that Leader is a Community approach which had previously had its operational programme and has been such an independent, independent programme since 1992, so there is a lot of experience. The next steps and approximations show the usefulness, purposefulness, but there was also - and there is still - a number of doubts about the effectiveness of implementing this approach not only in the country but also in the whole of Europe. But in general, the approach worked. I think it is right, and it must also be targeted after 2020 to ensure that this formula of social activity, building a local partnership of seven characteristics, i.e. building a partnership of three sectors: social, economic and non-governmental, agricultural entrepreneurs, but also the formula for developing a strategy is the commitment of the local community to the allocation of resources. As far as the programming period is concerned, we have a revolution in terms of not only using the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, i.e. under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, but also using cohesion policy and two funds, namely the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, and in part we can benefit from sea and fishing. So there is this multi-fundality, the use by local communities of the strategy developed, with almost four funds, in the part on implementation possibilities. Two voivodships have benefited from this multi-fundality in such a fundamental way, it is about voivodships: Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie, they have benefited from cohesion policy and here they implement an approach known as community-led local development. I think that this is a fairly large experiment, an experience that determines that cohesion policy should mainstream the implementation of the common agricultural policy. We're in the preliminary analysis of what the effects are. It's too early to judge. The fear of this bureaucratic machine was great, and indeed it presents itself differently for the time being. This programme was launched later, not within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, because it was staged, which is why at this stage it is this, not the other use of these funds. That's the first reason. Within the framework of the European Regional Development Fund, we have already started spending these funds and are spending them at a certain rate. With regard to the two Funds within the framework of cohesion policy, these two voivodships, let's say: the intermediary institution which has been given a delegated task are the marshal offices and they decide about this rate - and local groups - of spending these funds and handling. Is it low? To answer the question, what are the reasons for the low rate of spending, at this stage I am not able to say that it is low. It's happening at a certain rate, it's got this kind of developmental dynamic. Everything depends on the work of marshal offices and competitions announced by local action groups. I will also remind you that first we had to announce a competition and choose local action groups. They were only able to run their programs one year after the announcement of the result of the selection by the local authorities. So this dynamics up to 2023, I think, today is the kind of thing that there is no risk of spending resources, but it would be desirable that these successive recruitments be done in such a way that these funds are spent. What is the efficiency of functioning in different voivodships? I can answer in this way: I will prepare it in writing. I am unable to give you this now, I will send you information about this dynamic, how much, what calls. It's moms, it's just pure statistics. I think by division... We have 322 local action groups, including some in these two voivodships benefit from a total of four funds, i.e. cohesion policy, maritime and fisheries policy, and this is a description of the number of recruitments, spending funds, the number of competitions... Because let us also remind you that this is quite important support in terms of entrepreneurship, small grants, for small communities bonuses for non-agricultural activities - let us remind you that these are also measures for rural residents, not only for farmers - processing incubators and local food production. There's a lot of active activities out there, and it's taking time. Right now we're running another one so helpful... This amendment is designed to eliminate technical barriers. What are we going to do to increase absorption? How do we look in front of Europe? These are two things: implementation, firstly, within the framework of the RDP, this is one implementation of the programme, and secondly, within the framework of the RLKS, i.e. the cohesion policy of the authorities... I'm not gonna answer specifically, but I know from the messages from my co-workers or colleagues on the committee, because I'm talking about how we don't look bad, but I'm not able to answer. There are similar problems in implementation, because for the first time in Europe it is the joint mobilisation of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. What are these fundamental problems from? Every fund has its own rules. What we said here. I would like to draw attention to what Mr Wilczyński stressed, to the conditions of choice, to the selection criteria. It's called DG MARE, DG AGRI, DG REGIO. The main problem is that naming, bureaucratic procedure, fund management procedures show their fangs, to put it simply. We're trying to deal with it. This is such a fundamental obstacle in terms of implementation, also on a European scale. Those problems aren't just with us. We are looking for different decisions, but also good ideas for a new programming period. I think, referring to other valuable comments here, that we will consider how to use these suggestions on the National Rural Network. I'm asking for more detailed information. We have calls in the fall, there will be training, and then we can make changes, so we will take into account all these comments. Besides, the National Rural Network is supposed to promote good solutions, good practices, and the leader is the best example of this. That's one thing. Secondly, we are already aware of the new programming period. The implementation of the leader over the years has revealed that it is implemented at different speeds, that some local communities, as it turned out, are making fantastic use of it. These are pearls that are worth imitating. I was in one of the voivodships, where the culture of the organization, helping each other... My employees, when we went to a meeting with selected local communities from all over the voivodship, because of such a positive change, had their throats squeezed - I do not want to say that tears in the eyes - seeing the positive effects of cooperation, mutual management, implementation of programs, searching for good solutions, uniform determination of, for example, grant projects. This shows our experience where we should draw, and I think there are good and bad examples in each of the voivodships. But I think that this phenomenon that happened to us in one of the voivodships shows that it is worth investing in a leader, it is worth going this way. I also think that the effects and implementation will be effective over a certain period of time, because the processes of change, social inclusion, social activity require some time and a good, thought out way and effective action. So this is also an opportunity - the implementation or amendment of this law, the promotion of this solution, the promotion of rural development, where local communities are transferred funds and they themselves decide how to spend them, in accordance with certain principles. I am convinced that this is a direction that needs to be developed, which needs to be supported, and if we can benefit from different funds, the future is not only cooperation within rural areas, but local development led by the community in the framework of cooperation between the city - the village. That's a certain direction, too. In the city we also have good examples of such urban policies, where local development is being implemented. This direction shows, however, that cooperation between the village and the city in the context of community-led local development, especially in various areas of small towns, medium-sized but also large agglomerations, is the direction in which we should go. I am convinced that this will have a stronger and broader basis for action after 2020 and that the funds will be available for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u360	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u361	Over the past period, many useful investments have been made from European Union funds to rural people and small cities. Local action groups were a very important element of human activity, and by self-deciding, they established a sense of decentralisation in the process of taking initiatives. Our club will support all solutions aimed at improving the activities of local action groups and other social initiatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u362	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws, print No 2775. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on agricultural tax, the Law on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act (prints No. 2668 and 2776). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting today examined the Government's draft law on the amendment of the agricultural tax law, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act of print No. 2668 and proposes the adoption of this draft law. The proposed amendment aims at ordering and harmonising the country-wide rules for taxation of land through which the infrastructure for electricity transmission, transmission, distribution of liquids, vapours, gases and telecommunications infrastructure is carried out. Until now, there have been no rules governing the direct taxation of these land. Thus, in one place, in some municipalities such land was taxed at the rate of agricultural or forestry tax, while in other municipalities on the land where the linear infrastructure I mentioned above was located, there was a much, much higher tax on real estate. And here's the difference, 90 times the tax rate per square meter. In the case of forest tax rates, this is about 0.5 gr per square metre, while in the case of business, property tax is 91 gr per square metre. There were so different interpretations, and therefore a mess, dissatisfaction, there was also the direction of court proceedings. This problem was particularly affected by areas where such infrastructure is located, belonging to the State Forests. As regards the percentage of land that was under electricity lines in the State Forests in 2017 and which was taxed at the highest rate of real estate tax, it was 5% Land, but already in 2018 this rate covered as much as 40% land under the lines. As a result of the adoption of the draft law, the rate of agricultural and forestry tax will apply, i.e. persons who own such land, State Forests or other persons, may be calm that there will be no conversion or change of classification of these land for tax purposes and charging them with such high taxes on real estate. For me, information was particularly valuable here, and I would like to stress that it should be made public that the issue is not only about State Forests, which, you know, raised this issue first - it is a well-organized institution with lawyers, etc. - but also applies to e.g. individual farmers, who we know are villagers, where many such land is occupied by electricity lines. Therefore, the owners of these parcels will not, I stress, be charged the rate of real estate tax on the same basis as has been the case in recent years: that there is an economic activity, because it runs e.g. the energy line. This law brings with it another blessing, another aspect. Since we do not allow this - the government does not allow such land to be taxed above, it can only be taxed on agricultural and forestry taxes, it also counters the possible rise in the prices of services provided by companies which use and use such infrastructure, because it is known that these prices would be a consequence of costs, including taxes paid. During the work in committee there was a problem of loss due to the income of local government units, because agricultural tax and forestry tax go there. Please note that there is no such loss because local governments do not receive such income. They wouldn't have gotten it if we allowed them to be interpreted freely or charged with property tax. The introduction of clear rules for the taxation of land through which linear infrastructure is carried out is therefore very important for taxable persons on the ground. Thanks to this amendment, both landowners and users of perpetual land will not be obliged to pay a higher tax solely because their land is driven by linear infrastructure facilities. The calculation of the highest rate of tax applicable to land occupied for economic activity was in particular detrimental to owners of forest land, agricultural land and even non-use land. This would lead to a situation in which an owner who does not carry out his own business or benefits from the establishment of a linear infrastructure would be obliged to pay a multiple higher tax on land. I would like to thank the Ministry of Energy, whose representatives took part in today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Finance for this valuable initiative, which will put these issues in order and give greater security to all owners of agricultural and forestry parcels, as well as to the companies that carry out energy lines. Thank you very much for your attention and, on behalf of the committee, I would like to ask you to continue on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u364	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At today's meeting, the Public Finance Commission examined the draft law on amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forestry tax. As already mentioned at the first reading, the amendment of the laws in question results from the need to clarify the rules on taxation of land used by economic operators in connection with the location of infrastructure for the transmission or distribution of electricity, liquids, steam, gases and communication infrastructure. The current provisions of the Law of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges, the Forest Tax Act and the Agricultural Tax Act are ambiguous as regards the taxation of land on which the elements of the said infrastructure are located. At today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, three amendments were tabled by Law and Justice. The amendments also concern companies involved in the transport of extracted natural gas or oil. The transport of natural gas and oil is not part of the concept of transmission and distribution. There has also been a change in replacing the concept of technical belt with the concept of technological belt. This change is due to the frequent occurrence of the second term in judicial case law. Both concepts concern the same area of land. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft law on amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forest tax, together with the amendments contained in the report in print no. 2776. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u366	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u367	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a statement on the amendment of the Agricultural Tax Act, the Local Tax and Charge Act and the Forest Tax Act. The Civic Platform will support this project because it is aimed at ordering laws, laws, and the main objective is that at points that do not have to be burdensome, in particular for landowners, the tax authority does not have to reach maximum rates. However, during the process, there are some questions that remain unanswered for the time being, but I think, Minister, that it would also be interesting for you to answer these simple questions. What are the direct causes of these changes? Why has there been such an avalanche increase in applications for a maximum wage during the last year? The answer can be two-track. I am myself curious, and I do not know whether it is because one of the very influential and watchful entities is the State Forests, a strong, hermetic, state-owned company, for which perhaps the tax authorities have discovered that it can be a bit of a bit, in order to increase the income of individuals, or perhaps the fact that local authorities, which are tax authorities, have been e.g. by controlling the charging of taxes and using the fiscal tool... simply because of fear that the controller must answer why the maximum rates are not set, preventively giving these rates. That's interesting. It seems to me that due to further work on transmission and distribution lines, the answer must be known regardless of who will make decisions. In the course of the work, purely technical questions were asked, which are also unclear so that answers can be answered. We're talking transmission and distribution lines. Not every medium is as specific in its scope as e.g. power supply, but, Minister, also in electricity in our country is such a division that transmission networks are 110 kV and above, but in many cases 110 kV is already a distribution network. It's not clear. This is also the answer to this question: this law, which this government also announced - many, many years have wondered how to solve it - so-called. Corridor law, ordering linear investments, is very urgent. So that it is not so that someone takes advantage of the opportunity and suddenly we change the law, let us prepare organized, long-term actions within the framework of energy policy, and within the framework of this, after public discussions with local governments, with entities, parties... Let us prepare a lasting, long-term discussion. That's why I'm telling you this because it's not a political intention, it's just a really hard job requiring discussion with people, questions and answers. By the way, I would expect to get an answer from the government when the state's energy policy is presented, for example. Under this policy, the law on corridor investments will be drawn up. Finally, in the statement of reasons, the Minister or the people who wrote this are talking directly about the need to introduce a law, because electricity prices will suddenly rise. Let us remember that the State Forests have a very large financial resource and they can afford to pay this tax, so that is not the reason, as well as the costs which - if this law had not entered - would have been borne by private entities, of course directly charged to these entities - land owners, etc. Before that happens to the power grid, before it goes back to renegotiating land use contracts, it'd probably be a couple of years. The problem is the one I told you about - someone right now [[♪ The bell ♪]] He just called to say that we need to sort this thing out, and we're gonna try to sort it out. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u368	Thank you, sir. Good morning, actually. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to invite you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Mr Jarosław Sachaika. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the agricultural tax Act, the Local Tax Act and the Forest Tax Act. Many agricultural tax payers have received decisions from municipal authorities, which show that they are obliged to pay property tax on land on which they are located, for example. energy poles owned by electricity transmission companies at rates such as for economic operators. There is no doubt that the farmer on whose land the transmission facilities are located does not carry out economic activities in this respect, but due to the imprecise provisions, this issue had to be clarified clearly. The purpose of the proposed legislation is clear, and I will allow myself to raise another important problem that all those with transmission networks on the ground are keenly interested in. This is a matter of fair, fair compensation for land owners. Currently we have problems with the construction of high voltage lines in Poland, because residents often disagree with their location. As an example, problems related to the construction of the high voltage line between Lublin and Chełm can be identified. The residents do not agree that the line runs near their homes. There are also protests related to the location of the network on the route bydgoszcz west - Piła Krzewina. Our transmission system requires many new investments and modernisation of existing infrastructure. In particular, modern transmission lines of the highest voltages are missing and are capable of being handled by power stations. Undoubtedly, the expansion of transmission networks serves the whole public, improves the security and reliability of electricity supply for the whole country, but these very important investments cannot be at the expense of the people who are unfortunate to have their homes or fields located in the places where the network runs. Very often inhabitants view the location of transmission networks on their land as a burden, as a great harm. This feeling is often justified because they have to bear the burden of such lines on their ground, and this is not properly compensated. I think that a good example should be solutions for us to build windmills across our western border. In both Poland and Germany windmills are not devices that everyone would like to have near their home. Until recently in Poland we had many protests related to the location of windmills. In Germany, too, no one has a special sympathy for windmills, but every German, not only the one on which the windmill is located, but also the one whose property is at a certain distance from the windmill, is properly rewarded for lifting such nuisance. I am convinced that protests in our country could also be resolved if decision-makers showed a minimum of openness, understanding and goodwill. I would particularly like to draw attention to the controversial issue of the investment location mentioned earlier by me on the Bydgoszcz - Piła route. The inhabitants reiterate numerous appeals, which are unfortunately ignored in their opinion. They're making protests that the police are already involved in. Meanwhile, the demands are very simple to meet. First of all, the priorities are: transparent and independent preparation of each investment, early information of landowners about the purposes of their property, compensation in the amount related to the value of the investment and the profit generated by it, objective control of the implementation of the project and its execution. In conclusion, on behalf of myself and thousands of citizens, I would like to ask the Minister to lean on the problems I have raised regarding fair compensation for the location of energy investments on the ground of citizens. As far as this law is concerned, it should be adopted and supported as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u370	Thank you. Please speak on behalf of the Club The Modern Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! There is no denying that the harmonisation of the rules on the taxation of land intended for the construction of transmission or distribution lines of liquids, steam, gases is simply a necessity today. Why is it a necessity? We have not really been able to establish this throughout the legislative process. Many questions have been raised as to why it suddenly became a problem and whether it is true that the tax authorities suddenly started forcing local governments, local government units to grant higher tax rates. On the other hand, e.g. The State Forests began to tear down, or some other impulse caused these differences, the discrepancies in the recent period to begin to appear. However, it is true that once such differences in interpretation as to how this tax should be charged were not present. They've come in lately, but since they've come up, actually the problem needs to be solved. What else is forest tax on real estate, a completely different amount is real estate tax. These discrepancies are so large and so important that they can ultimately affect the prices of services distributed to citizens or go to the costs of other institutions. This is not what we can do, because the divergence of interpretation is investment uncertainty, the price uncertainty of the services provided, which ultimately benefit citizens, but also the divergence of interpretation which creates unnecessary judicial proceedings. The courts should deal with citizens' affairs in order to rule more quickly on the most important matters for them. They should not be concerned with eliminating differences in tax interpretation. If by speeding up the short law, we can put an end to it, then we should do it as much as possible. Therefore, the Modern Club will support this solution. We will vote in favour of this bill. I maintain this earlier position because during the committee's work no major amendments were made to the draft, which could ultimately decide to amend this positive position towards the Modern Club's law. So we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u372	Thank you, Member. As regards the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski made a written statement on behalf of this club. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't hear you. I'm closing the list. I therefore ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski's first question, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The transmission service appeared in the Civil Code in 2008, but the courts, for example, are investigating. Indemnification cases, they find that it lasted 30 years. A clear act of law backwards. I even met with the situation in which the District Court in Tomaszów Mazowiecki ruled the seat of the transmission right in case of an installation which does not exist yet, which is to be built. In the case of land with such sedentary service, this ownership right is significantly limited, the capacity to use the land is significantly reduced, while the burden borne by the owners is the same as for other land. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They cannot obtain any funding from the owner of these installations. What's the situation here? Will she be amended in the future or in this bill? The situation of landowners in respect of which the establishment of the seat applies is changing. Thank you very much. Sorry about the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u374	Thank you. It's okay, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! We have settled a question - it will soon be regulated - about the amount of the property tax. But we have local governments in Poland, which reasonably, according to some normality, collected a tax on land, agricultural or forestry where electricity investments were located, but there were also local governments that used the gap and overcharged taxes especially private individuals, individuals. And now I wanted to ask what mechanism would be used to compensate these private entities for the damage caused by the dishonesty of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u376	The last question on this item will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u377	Minister! People, families, who are very bitter, grieved by the fact that near their home, within 50 m from the border of the plot, are to be located little more than the house stations, e.g. three in one place, with a power of more than 100 kW, which is a surprise to them, because they often built this house with a huge effort, it is the work of their entire life. This is an issue, for example. Lubartowa, similar in Kurów. The residents are surprised by this decision. It is known that the plot loses value, loses value of the entire building property, loses importance of landscape value. I think that it is also important that the radiation that accompanies it is very important here for health reasons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the current government, which I believe is very sensitive to the various problems of this kind, in some way intended to tighten up these rules so that they are not so liberal? I would not count on good will here, because the local government says: it is the power lines of PGE, PGE wanted so, and PGE says so: it is here that the local government has appointed us a location, even though there are few other areas available. It is difficult to count on good will here if there are no clear regulations. I'd like to hear...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u378	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u379	Is the Minister thinking of tightening those rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u380	I will ask the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski for answers to questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first, I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for supporting this bill. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the finance committee has accepted this proposal only with minor amendments, so we can say that this law has found quite broad support. This revision of the tax rules is important both for companies using linear infrastructure for their activities, as well as for taxable persons on the ground and electricity consumers. In a way, actually. It organises and harmonises the country-wide rules for taxation of land through which linear infrastructure is carried out, which is used for the transmission or distribution of electricity. In fact, it is about supplying citizens and businesses with electricity, telecommunications infrastructure, steam, gas, etc. In this way, we eliminate the uncertainty regarding the application of tax rules in this respect and, I hope, there will be a considerable reduction in frequent disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities at present. I'm gonna move on here to speeches and questions. Mr Czerwiński asked the question of why this change is needed, where taxes came from all of a sudden. I can say this: We've had decades of such rules, and before that it didn't come to anyone's mind to change them, it's about this service which, as in general assessment, from the point of view of our civic need for access to the media, is perhaps sometimes reluctant, but with some understanding accepted. There were situations where the first fees for these land as a business activity were subject to real estate tax, and this was the case with the State Forests. Here I also refer to Mrs Klock's speech. Yes, Mrs Paulina Klock asked... [[It's a lock.]] Yes, Klock. [[Hennig-Kloska.]] Locust, yes, sir, I'm sorry. [[There are two drones of names.]] That's right, Hennig-Kloska. I'm sorry. The first state forests in some way announced that, due to such intentions of local governments, they would simply transfer this taxation to those who use this land in some way by means of the fact that this line runs through the area. And the estimates began to appear, which, as a minister, scared me a little bit, because it seemed that this amount could reach even PLN 4 billion if it moved to agricultural land, which would give us about PLN 7 per month to the bill. Because it is money taken from the company on the one hand, but it is known that these companies, companies also operate in some way. [[It's not from companies taken.]] No, I'm saying that this money would be paid by the citizens, but also by companies that often have this land under the lines, so all electricity consumers would pay for it in an equal way. So the idea was to have some sort of order in this case, and hence the tax initiative that came from us, the Ministry of Energy, to get these things sorted out. Thank you very much for understanding that this bill is meant to serve us all. Questions were also raised outside the scope of this law concerning compensation for owners. Indeed, there is a special act here, which causes that when building energy lines after a series of negotiations, because these constructions of all the highest voltage lines are preceded by series of negotiations of different types, expropriation... Already in previous years, as a Member, I have sometimes been called upon by citizens to participate in such various negotiations as to what compensation will be, what this will look like, etc., where this line has the least harmful course for citizens. This is carried out in the negotiating system, but there is a time when these negotiations are ending, and then expropriation takes place, but there is still a way for the citizen or the company to seek the right to pay for it, and this is already a judicial way. Some percent of these trials end up for the benefit of those who occur, but often these things are dismissed by courts. In this case, there is no universal solution, because this compensation is often specific. If it makes it difficult for someone to develop their business, someone will suffer losses because they have to move companies elsewhere, etc., then the court can judge the validity of their claims and these things are going to this level. So if we are talking about compensation now, then the point is that backwards, all these things are counted back, dealt with in accordance with the rules in the past and forwards, according to these new rules. That's the rule. there is nothing we can do about the law at all and there is nothing we can do about it. I have just referred to Mr Sachajka's question, which was precisely what he asked, like Mrs Butterwska, about the location of the station, the loss of value of parcels or even buildings in this regard. There is a negotiating road everywhere, if there is no agreement, it is the only way - the judicial one to reach a verdict. I must say, on the basis of my many years of experience, that, as it seems, a better solution cannot be found from the point of view of the functioning of this, it is about determining how the valuation is carried out, etc. She will always be felt in different ways by the person concerned and making her case in court is absolutely right. I welcome this support, and I believe that this is for all our citizens, regardless of their political beliefs, a right law that gives us the opportunity to deal with these problems more peacefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u382	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u383	The PSL-UED Club supports this project as a way to regulate the collection of taxes on industrial equipment. I have already talked about this at first reading, paying attention to the need for a comprehensive regulation of these issues, including the investment process itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u384	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Things Found (Prints No. 2582 and 2658). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Findings, print No. 2582. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading on 5 June 2018. The Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 June 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The law is a committee project, it concerns a change in the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. To date, the wording of this article: Who has found the money, the securities, the valuables referred to in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, or things of historical, scientific, artistic value and does not know the person entitled to receive them or does not know their place of residence, immediately surrenders the right old age. The project provides that a further part will be added to this part of the sentence unless only money has been found and their amount does not exceed 100 PLN or the equivalent of this amount calculated according to the average rate announced by the National Bank of Poland on the date of the finding of the money, and where no such rate was announced on that date, according to the last course announced before that date. And art. 2: The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So far, anyone who found the smallest amount or anything listed here had to give it back to the right old age. Even the amount of 1 gr legally should be transferred to this old age. This involves disproportionate costs in relation to the value of the thing found. The Commission's project envisaged that this amount would be PLN 100, sorry very much, PLN 50, but in the course of the work it was changed, reduced to PLN 100. This was due to several reasons, among others. the fact that similar solutions are in other countries, where they are higher amounts, i.e. EUR 100.150 in European Union countries. This amount of PLN 100 is also due to the threshold in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three years old. This announcement threshold is on the bulletin board. If this person is unknown in the case of higher amounts, then announcements are already necessary. So in order not to create additional thresholds, the committee decided that it would be a sum of PLN 100, consistent with the whole of the law. The discussion was relatively short, substantive and ended with the unanimous referral of this law to further work in committees. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u386	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u387	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on prints 2582 and 2658. This is an amendment to the law on things found. This is a rather short amendment, these are two articles. The purpose of the proposed law is to shape the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 on the things found, so that a person who finds a small amount of money up to 100 PLN or the equivalent of that amount in a foreign currency and who is unable to determine their owner, is not obliged to immediately transfer this money to old age, which can often be cumbersome, cumbersome and involve the need to bear additional costs of travelling to the residence of the old man, taking time, taking leave, etc. According to current regulations, a person who finds even a very small amount of money and does not know the owner or is unable to identify the owner is obliged to immediately return the money found to the elderly. The law does not provide for any exception in this respect, so the legal standard imposes such an obligation on the finder, as the previous speaker said, even a single-penny coin. In the proposed amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 is replaced by the following: Who found the money, the securities, the valuables referred to in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, or things of historical, scientific or artistic value and does not know the person entitled to receive them or does not know their place of residence, immediately gives the right old age, unless only money has been found, and their amount does not exceed 100 PLN or the equivalent of that amount calculated according to the average rate announced by the National Bank of Poland on the day of finding the money, and where such a course has not been announced on that date, according to the last course announced before that date. Since the amendment, as I said, is very short, but reasonable, I bring the Law and Justice Club to accept the amendment of this law and to continue to process it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. To speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Findings, contained in prints No. 2582 and 2658. The current rules require the finder to give the found thing away without delay. It is also about the money found, regardless of the value or amount. According to Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The current Act may refuse to accept things, including money, if the estimated value of things does not exceed 100 PLN, unless it is of historical, scientific or artistic value. This is burdensome for honest finders, because they are bound to give even a proverbial penny in accordance with the regulations. This brings on their part certain costs associated with the organisation of travel to the old town and sometimes devoted to it. Therefore, the finder, in compliance with the current provisions of the 2015 Act, is obliged to immediately return things of low value to old age, and the governor may refuse to accept it. The proposed amendment to the Act is the result of the work of the petition committee, which does not specify the amount. The idea was to limit the obligation to transfer things or money immediately to a certain value. The proposed 50 PLN or the equivalent of this amount in a foreign currency began during the work of the Committee on Petitions. In expressing the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to stress that the amendment in the direction indicated in the petition is appropriate and necessary as much as possible. During the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, the original text of the law amending the Law on Findings was subjected to a minor editorial amendment and the amount - from PLN 50 to PLN 100 was changed. We have agreed that this amount is too low, and there is a trend in European countries to raise it, for example. in Germany - up to 50 euros. The proposal for changes in the above-mentioned scope is fully supported by the Polish Towns Association. Mr Marek Wójcik, representative of the Management Board of the Polish Municipalities Association for legislative matters, gave this position at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club does not comment on the proposed draft amendment to the Law on Things Found at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on 21 June and presented in the report in print No 2658. We're asking for a trial and a party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u390	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Andrzej Maciejewski from the Kukiz club15 in the plenary room. I would therefore like to ask you to speak on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u391	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Commission's draft law on amending the law on things found. This is precisely the case for printing 2582 and printing report 2658. The Commission considers the petition submitted to be justified, and the amendment of the rules assumes that if the founder does not know the original owner of the sum of the money in question or is unable to determine it, he will not have to give the money back to old age unless the amount found exceeds 100 PLN. For foreign currencies, this is the equivalent of the amount converted at the average NBP rate of the day. The current provision provides that whoever has found a thing and does not know the person entitled to receive it or does not know its place of residence shall immediately notify the finding of the belongings of the elderly person due to the place of residence of the founder or the place where the goods are found. However, the legislator did not foresee any exception to this provision and the smallest amount already found, e.g. 1 gr, you should hand over the old people. However, the conscientiousness of an honest finder could still be lost, since the current legal situation today gives old age the possibility to refuse such amounts, also provided that the estimated value given to the officer of an object does not exceed 100 PLN, unless it is of historical, scientific or artistic value. It is a matter of art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4th Act, which says: The right old man may refuse to accept things whose estimated value does not exceed 100 PLN, unless it is a thing of historical, scientific or artistic value. The entry into force of the contested law will result in the elimination of a provision contrary to the principles of social co-life, which imposes a often cumbersome obligation on the finder and, in the case of such small amounts, an unjustified social interest. In addition, the contested law in the event of entry into force will have no impact on public finances, on economic operators' finances or on the functioning of the economy. Nor does the above law conflict with European Union law, since matters relating to the ownership regime fall outside the scope of regulation of that law. To conclude, Modern is in favour of supporting this project, and we are also satisfied because of the adaptation of this law to the needs. In fact, it refers to rationality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u392	Thank you, Member. I also do not see the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in the plenary room of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski. There are also no questions at this point. Therefore, does the rapporteur of the committee still want to speak? There is also no government representative. So in this situation, since there is no one else willing to speak, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act (prints Nos 2434 and 2696). Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate bill amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law, print No 2434. At its meeting on 6 June, the Sejm addressed this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Both committees, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 3 July 2018, request the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print no.2434 without amendments. The draft law submitted for opinion aims to amend the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd sentence of the Local referendum law and Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3nd sentence of the National referendum Act. The draft introduces the possibility of reopening the appeal court's proceedings in second instance in referenda cases related to the dissemination of false information in referenda material. At present, in the event of a finding of facts or evidence which might affect the outcome of the case, the party to the proceedings shall not be entitled to appeal against the order of the court of appeal. The proposed novel aims to establish such a measure. Therefore, the committees have decided, as I have put it before, and I would like to ask once again for the draft to be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u394	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u395	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law, print No 2434. The draft law is the implementation of the obligation to adapt the system of the right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The bill is short, contains three articles. High Izbo! In its judgment of 20 April 2017, the Constitutional Tribunal declared the provisions of Article incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 National referendum law and Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Local referendum laws. Accordingly, there is no appeal, i.e. a request for reopening proceedings, against the decision of the appeal court on matters relating to the dissemination of false information in referenda material. The Court pointed out that the very short time limits for the recognition of the case at first and second instance in referenda proceedings were to ensure that the decision was reached in such a time that voters could be informed of the findings of the court before the day of the vote and that the referendum campaign would last long enough without false information. However, the simplification and shortening of proceedings in the opinion of the Constitutional Court must not lead to a finding which is not in line with material truth, i.e. not meeting the requirements of the rule of law. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the proposed amendments be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u396	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Waldy Dzikowski made this statement in writing. Similarly, Mr Wojciech Bakun on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. In the same way, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a written statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats. So I ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Mark Owl's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Senate committee on the bill amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. The draft law takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act. This regulation has been introduced in Article. 35 Local referendum law and article. 44 National referendum laws. In view of the above, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u398	Thank you very much, sir. None of your fellow Members have entered the list of questions and none of your fellow Members have entered. Therefore, do you wish to speak? No. Neither does the rapporteur. So I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of Kukiz15 on the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. This draft is the implementation of the obligation to adapt the right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of the provisions of the Act of 14 March 2003 on a national referendum and the Act of 15 September 2000 on a local referendum. The aim of the project under discussion is to introduce the possibility of reopening proceedings following the decision of the referenda court in matters relating to the dissemination of false information in statements, leaflets and other electoral materials sold during the referendum campaign. The Kukiz Club15 has not tabled amendments in the course of the draft law and is proposing to support the project in its proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present my position on the draft law amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act, print Nos 2434 and 2696. I would like to remind you that the bill introduces the possibility of reopening proceedings after the decision of the referenda court in cases which took place in the referendum campaign. The draft implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring the provisions of the National referendum Act of 14 March 2003 and the Local referendum of 15 September 2000 to be incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Court contested the current provision, i.e. that the decision of the Court of Appeal is not subject to a legal measure and is immediately enforceable. A joint meeting was held between the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It was concluded by a report which was taken over without comments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform supports the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats our position on the Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act 2434 and 2696. The aim of the project discussed today is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring the provisions of national referendum laws incompatible with the Constitution and the local referendum. The proposal introduces the possibility of reopening proceedings following the decision of the referenda court in matters relating to the dissemination of false information in statements, leaflets, etc. during the referendum campaign. In the case of the Local referendum law, if posters, passwords, leaflets, statements or other forms of propaganda and agitation contain false data and information, it may be requested by the district court for the confiscation of such materials, for a ban on their publication, for a correction order, for an apology ordered, for a participant to order the payment of up to 10 000. PLN in favour of a charity, a court order from a participant in proceedings to the applicant of the same amount as compensation. At present, the rules provide that the district court shall recognise these applications within 24 hours in non-trial proceedings. The decision of the court of referenda may also be lodged within 24 hours with the court of appeal (second instance). However, a request to reopen the procedure cannot be submitted thereafter. This provision was challenged by the Constitutional Court by judgment of 20 April 2017. The Court pointed out that in the so-called case law. referenda proceedings: very short deadlines for examining the case in the first and second instance are to ensure that a decision is given in such a time that voters can, on the one hand, read the court's findings before the day of the vote and, on the other hand, that a fair pre-election debate, free from pathology related to the dissemination of false messages, takes place for a sufficiently long period of time to form the will of voters. However, the TK noted that the simplification and shortening of proceedings must not lead to a finding that is not true, which does not correspond to the requirements of the rule of law. He pointed out that it should be possible to touch the final judgment of the court, which is seriously flawed. This applies in particular to a situation in which new evidence will appear after the judgment has been delivered, which shows that the final judgment does not correspond to reality - underlined in the explanatory memorandum. TK also noted that in the case of electoral proceedings, due to their speed, the risk of misconceptions is significantly increased. High Izbo! In the case of decisions in a special electoral procedure, the speed of proceedings is crucial. However, the speed and simplification of the procedure must not lead to a limitation of the right to raise a judgment in the event of serious (qualified) defects. The current exclusion of the possibility to bring forward judgments in the present case has infringed the constitutional right to consider the matter in fair proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u402	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft law amending the Press Law Act (prints Nos 2353 and 2655). However, Mr Jack World is not in the Chamber. So I'm running a five-minute break, and then we're gonna continue. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 16 hours 20 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 16. Mr President, we are all waiting for you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, the acceleration was so sudden, it surprised me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u404	This has happened recently, Mr President, and therefore the sitting needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're talking about is a citizens' petition. Its author pointed to the need to liquidate three anachronisms in the Press Law. At last. The Committee on Petitions held a discussion with a representative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and decided to launch a legislative initiative. This discussion showed the need to make two further changes suggested by the Ministry and the Supreme Court. These amendments, which go beyond the scope of the petition, have been notified to the Committee on Culture and Media in the form of parliamentary amendments. At its meeting of 21 June this year. The cultural committee unanimously adopted the draft law. This draft contains 5 amendments to the current Press Law. Maybe I will not discuss these amendments in detail, they are described in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. Let me just say that this law is clean, adapts the archaic law already to the current legal situation. I would also like to add that this is the second legislative initiative of the Committee on Petitions, and I hope that there will be no more need for this. These seemingly minor changes do not, of course, affect the daily lives of editorial offices, journalists and media audiences, but may be of great importance in conflict situations or in procedural situations. What is equally important, these proposed changes serve to raise the seriousness of the Polish legal system. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the Committee on Petitions, I request the adoption of the Law on Printing No 2353. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u406	I thank the Member for his smooth presentation of the report on this point. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Kołakowski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Press Law Act. Press law, as we remember, was adopted in 1984 and has been amended several times. It is worth recalling that the last amendment entered into force on 12 December Ub. This amendment, among others. changed the authorisation rules and deleted the Press Council rules. The proposed amendment introduced by the Committee on Petitions, with two amendments introduced at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, is now intended to bring the provisions of the Press Law into line with the current systemic reality and other laws. The amendment of the Press Law is intended primarily to extend the right to provide information to the press as regards people residing in Poland but not Polish citizens, as well as legal persons and entities without legal personality. The above amendment adapts the law to the provisions of the Constitution, i.e. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 54 (1) (a) 1 the Constitution, which talks about freedom of expression and the acquisition and dissemination of information. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland guarantees freedom of expression for everyone. It should be noted that freedom of expression is one of the most important civil liberties and is the foundation of a democratic state. The draft law also provides for the amendment of the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The essence of this amendment is to remove the provision relating to the reference to the Article. 254 of the 1969 Penal Code, which no longer exists in the Penal Code. The next amendment concerns Article. 37a. It is about adapting the article to the current legal solutions. No longer applies additional penalties, but criminal measures such as the deprivation of public rights, the prohibition of a specific position, the pursuit of a particular profession or the pursuit of a specific economic activity. As the rapporteur has already said, the draft has been prepared in response to a citizens' petition which the Committee on Petitions has found to be legitimate, as has the Committee on Culture and Communications. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, support the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u408	Thank you so much for putting your position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Mr Wojciech Król will present the speech on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to adapt the provisions of the Press Law adopted in 1984 to current systemic reality and to other laws. Firstly, the project extends the catalogue of persons entitled to provide information to the press. Currently, the law provides that any citizen, in accordance with the principle of freedom of expression and the right to criticism, may provide information to the press. The purpose of this provision was to enable everyone, including employees of various institutions, ministries, local government units, to express themselves and to provide information to the media. The aim was not to prevent anyone from providing information to the media to a public institution, a citizen of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, with regard to the amendment, it might be appropriate to consider extending the catalogue in such a way as to leave the word "citizen" in its wording and to extend the catalogue by adding a phrase that, in addition to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, they can do they are also citizens of other countries and legal entities - legal persons. However, despite these reflections, changes should be regarded as beneficial and not leaving room for possible doubts as to the interpretation of the rule. It should be stressed that the question of interpretation that might prevent media from providing information, even if by nationals of other countries, would be contrary to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the European Convention on Human Rights, and hence the freedom to express opinions, have views, receive and communicate information irrespective of national borders. The processed change is beneficial, because we cannot allow non-Polish citizens, legal persons and entities without legal personality to be excluded and removed from the possibility of working with the press. It is a very big plus to include them clearly and clearly in the bodies empowered to interact with the press, because this will enable the media to have wider access to information guaranteed by a broad catalogue of entities capable of providing this information. I would like to point out that, in the present reality, freedom of opinion, of opinion, the possibility of communicating information is particularly important, as I think we all know. The other two changes are cosmetic changes. They adapt the law to the current rules of the Penal Code. Today, the law in the amended article refers to the no longer existing provision of the Penal Code. Another amendment is the amendment to the Article. 37a, which now reads: In the event of a conviction for a criminal offence committed by the publication of a press release, the court may refer as an additional penalty for the loss of the press material. The replacement of the refund by the wording of the criminal measures in view of the absence of additional penalties in the current legal order is correct and necessary and does not raise any substantive doubts. In summary, the proposed amendments are considered desirable and necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u410	I would also like to thank you very much for your smooth presentation of your position. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, on behalf of the Modern Club, made a written statement. So, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Ms Urszula Pasławska will perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u411	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the amendment of the Law on Press Law, which we treat as a purely technical and law-making law adapting the Law of Press to the current system reality. It should be noted that the Press Law, which was adopted in 1984, requires much further changes. I would like to remind you here that in 2012 the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party prepared a comprehensive regulation, a revision of the Press Law, unfortunately this did not happen at the time with the interest of Members of other clubs. And that's a shame, because the proposed changes were comprehensive and adapted to the present day. We offered, among others. the removal of prison sentences for defamation and replacement by financial or administrative sanctions, the introduction of a central online press register instead of the requirement to register in district courts, the regulation of electronic media activities, the amendment of the 1984 State service record. Despite a favourable opinion, among others. Chambers of Press Publishers defining our project as decommunization of the media as well. by the votes of the members of the PiS, this project has been withdrawn to the so-called. freezers. Today, it is difficult to expect you to deal with a project that liberalizes the Press Law, because practice shows that you have so far preferred to narrow down the rights of journalists rather than expand them. Therefore, even though we support the law, we treat with reserve all the rules that you have prepared regarding the activities of the media. I have such a deep conviction that the discussion of the new Press Law will not be held until the new term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u412	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. In this connection, Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform, begins. Here you go, one minute. [[I didn't sign up, but I'm gonna ask you a question.]] What do you mean? I have you on my list.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, the Press Law Act was amended, so the question should be asked - let it be rhetorical - why these changes were not asked to be introduced in the framework of the so-called. economics of proceding. I think that since this had to be adapted to the existing rules, it could have been done by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u414	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The essence of the new sound of the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Press Law is the deletion of the word "citizen." In practice, this means that this provision will be fully in line with the Constitution and that any natural person, legal person or entity without legal personality will be legally guaranteed the right to provide information to the press. I have a question: But will the press have a free right to obtain this information? What PiS did during the protest of the guardians of disabled people, clearly shows that they are equal and equally, that there is a worse sort Even among journalists, and inconvenient information for the PiS cannot reach the sovereign in an appropriate way. You've taken over the state media, you're spreading propaganda, and you're already so incompetent that you're starting to ridicule each other, for example. on the famous belts already on national television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I understood the need to amend the Press Law Act, I wanted to ask how the restriction on journalists' access to the Sejm during the crisis is in line with the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u416	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jacek Świat, will answer the questions because we have no one from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm second term in the Seym. At the beginning of the previous term, I spoke several times with the then Minister of Culture, Bogdan Zdrojewski, asking him to start work on the new Press Law, because only the Ministry, in my opinion, has the right tools, legal facilities, human resources, to face such serious matter. None of this has worked for the entire term. I also know that, in the previous term of office, this matter has also been tried. This is not easy because the interests of the recipients of different media coincide with those of broadcasters, intermediaries. But there was also a huge problem, how to deal with new technologies, because we are dealing not only with paper press, but also with television and terrestrial, and digital, and cable, and satellite, as well as with Internet radio, and with a whole lot of transmissions going through the Internet. Reconciliation of all these interests is a hell of a tricky thing, it's a dwarf thing. Unfortunately, the project that Mrs Pasławska was talking about, seemingly holistic, also does not solve these issues, was in fact also cosmetic. Of course, like everyone else, I hope that it is the Press Law that we will one day be able to create again, taking into account these new technologies and reconciling all our interests. Undoubtedly, it is not easy to create such a difficult bill during a period of political upheaval, such a confusion when even the goodwill of political opponents is denied, just as the honourable Member insisted on denying the goodwill of my political camp, although as a lively discussion we are discussing a law which has been adopted unanimously and in the petition committee, and in the culture committee and which is clean, purely legislative. I don't think it's a good opportunity to start purely political polemics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u418	Thank you very much, sir. I understand that the Minister will no longer speak after the reply has been given by the rapporteur of the committee. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the committee's report on the Commission's draft law amending the Press Law Act, print no. 2353 and 2655. The Modern Posel Club agrees to the amendment of the Press Law Act. The rules introduced extend the possibility of providing press information to non-nationals of Poland, as well as to legal persons and entities without legal personality. This cosmetic amendment will facilitate the functioning of the media and enhance the competences of civil society.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u420	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws (prints No. 2744 and 2775). Mr Andrzej Gawron will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on a government bill amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws, print No. 2744. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, the first reading of the draft law took place. Its main objective is to remove in full the electronicisation of public contracts in the case of small contracts with a value below the Union thresholds. The full electronicisation of public contracts was to apply from 18 October 2018. The national public procurement market, which is smaller contracting and Polish entrepreneurs, is not entirely prepared for this deadline. This is due, for example, to the different degrees of technological advancement, allowing for the full electronicisation of the public procurement procedure. During the committee's work on the draft law, the Legislative Office submitted some editorial comments clarifying the provisions in question. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Stay, sir. There's no point in coming back because you're acting on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. But this is about to happen, because I must inform you that the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Now I ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Law amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws, including amendments to the laws of 29 January 2004 and 22 June 2016. This draft amendment to the Public Procurement Law responds to the need to clarify the rules governing the electronicisation of public procurement. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Law amending is to postpone the obligation to electronicise contracts in respect of public procurement procedures conducted by other contracting authorities than the central contracting authority for which the value of the contract is below the Union thresholds. The relevant directives of the European Union provide for mandatory electronicisation of the procurement process, but it is in the interest of smaller contracting companies and Polish companies to postpone this process in time. The Law and Justice Club sees the important benefits of the proposed regulation for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also important that we minimise the risk of a decrease in the number of offers submitted in proceedings. Recognizing these arguments, our club fully supports the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężyłko will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on a draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. The government bill concerns the amendment of two laws: the Public Procurement Law of 2004 and the Law amending the Public Procurement Law of 2016 and regulates the electronicisation of public procurement contracts. The aim of the project is to postpone the obligation to electronicise contracts conducted by contracting entities other than the central contracting authority for which the value of the contract is below the Union thresholds. The Public Procurement Law has four amendments. Firstly, by definition of electronic means of communication, fax has been deleted by adapting this definition to EU regulations. It will therefore be the same as the definition in the 2002 Electronic Service Act. Secondly, it is clarified which statements must bear a qualified electronic signature. Thirdly, it has been clarified that when an economic operator submits a tender or part thereof in paper form, when permitted by the provisions of the Directive, it shall, under the rigour of nullity, sign it itself. Fourthly, the use of fax was authorised, by way of exception, in defence and security procurement procedures, since the provisions of the EU directives in this area do not provide for the use of electronic means of communication. All these amendments to the Public Procurement Law are precise and precise in nature, aligning Polish law with European Union directives. The Act amending the Public Procurement Law makes substantial changes to this project concerning the extension of the deadline for full electronicisation of contracts - in respect of public procurement procedures conducted by other contracting authorities than the central contracting authority, the value of which is below the Union thresholds - of 18 October 2018 at 1 January 2020. As the government informs us in the explanatory memorandum, by then there should already be a central e-Procurement Platform and integrated e-Service Portals. The proposed solution will increase the chances for contractors, in particular from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, to be better prepared to electronicise contracts, including their qualified e-signatures, will provide better opportunities for smaller contracting parties to prepare for the implementation of electronic tools to handle public procurement procedures, increase the number of tenders submitted in proceedings and reduce the number of cancellations due to the lack of valid tenders due to the lack of qualified e-signatures on the part of smaller contractors. This is not regulated by EU rules and we have been able to move this deadline freely. On the other hand, the provisions of the EU Directives 2014/24 and 2014/25 on public procurement require Member States to communicate in public procurement procedures, the value of which is equal to or exceeds the Union thresholds, only by electronic means by 18 October 2018 at the latest. And it is in this law, in this draft law, that has been preserved together with the transitional provisions and the date of entry into force of the law. In the case of central contracting authorities, however, this obligation has been in place since 18 April 2017 and it works well. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club, due to all the advantages that this amendment gives to small and medium-sized enterprises, will vote in favour of the bill in accordance with the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Kukiz club15 is absent from the plenary room. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz made a written statement on behalf of the Modern Club. So please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u427	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Public Procurement Law Act and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws from print No. 2744. The committee's report is print 2775. The bill as a sejm printing was made yesterday. The first reading of the project took place today at the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. I have some doubts as to whether the law in such a hurry will be useful to the parties concerned and whether it will be a good law, all the more so since the project, as it turns out, is not subject to a process of agreement, public consultation or opinion. The project in its content concerns a very large number of entities which are obliged to apply this right. The main objective of the amendments is to clarify the rules governing the electronicisation of public procurement, which were implemented by the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws, and which resulted from the implementation of the Union Directive. 2014/24 EU, which provides for mandatory electronicisation of the procurement process. The main task of the project is to remove the obligation of full electronisation in relation to proceedings conducted by the so-called. small tenderers whose value of the contract is below the Union thresholds. This deadline was amended from 18 October 2018 to 1 January 2020. This regulation will certainly allow, especially to small entities, better preparation for the electronicisation of orders, including the implementation of electronic tools for handling proceedings, as well as their qualified electronic signature. With regard to detail, the draft deletes a fax as a means of communication from the definition of electronic means of communication, it clarifies which statements made in the proceedings must be accompanied by a qualified electronic signature and, as if the third element, indicate at which condition the offer or part of the offer may be submitted in paper form after it has been signed in hand. The project, as has already been said, was adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development with minor changes of an editorial nature. My Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, despite some reservations about this urgency of proceding, in part justified, will support this project, whose main objective, as we know, is to postpone the deadline for full electronicisation in public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u428	Thank you very much, Member. None of your fellow Members have joined the questions. Mr Andrzej Gawron also wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I just wanted to stress that the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development was also attended by representatives of entrepreneurs who support this change, a minor change that we have adopted, but also look forward to fundamental changes in the Law on Public Procurement. Such work is ongoing and I think that, with the participation of entrepreneurs, we will be able to achieve very good changes. Thank you very much for your substantive work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u430	Thank you very much, sir. The Minister doesn't want to speak. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws, print Nos 2744 and 2775. This amendment clarifies the rules governing the electronicisation of public procurement. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to postpone the obligation to electronicise contracts in respect of public procurement procedures conducted by contracting authorities other than the central contracting authority whose value of the contract is below the Union thresholds. Another important change is the elimination of fax from the definition of electronic means of communication. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of Print Act No. 2744.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-18-sejm-67-1.u432	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 18 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would anyone else like to join the list? I don't see anyone willing, so I'm closing the list. I would like to make a statement by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform. I don't see your MP. I ask Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. Neither is the Member. We therefore concluded our parliamentary statements. Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 19 July 2018 at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment until 3 p.m. 20 min 52]]
