ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Monika Wielichowska, Kinga Gajewska, Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubow as the secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Members Kinga Gajewska and Marcin Duszek. I consider the minutes of the 58th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long, contained in print No 2261. The groups of Members have submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, - amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, - on State aid to seniors, amending the Act on personal income tax and amending certain other laws. The designs are printers 2034, 2122 and 2182 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The competent committees have submitted reports on: - a parliamentary bill amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers, - a governmental bill amending the law on hunting and amending the law on amending the law on hunting. The reports are prints 2247 and 2234. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Records Act and the Law on Civil Status Acts. This is print number 2272. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee submitted an additional report on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament and the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm presented by the Sejm Bureau. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the third reading of this draft resolution. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in discussions: - on the Commission's reports on draft laws: on bailiffs, on bailiffs' costs and on the Hunting Law project, - in the first reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and certain other laws. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the unexplained links between the Minister for Special Services Coordinator, his deputy and the Head of CBA with the former Vice-President of the Office for Property Management currently in custody. Warsaw, who was responsible for decisions in proceedings concerning returns of nationalised Warsaw real estate, which was presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus from the Modern Club, is making a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I move that we withdraw from the agenda 1947. It is a law on the establishment of a National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews during World War II. Mr. Marshal! All of us who are sitting here, in the Parliament hall, believe that Poles who saved Jews during World War II are our heroes of the nation, people of the highest trial who deserve not only memory, but also respect, monuments and even national day. On the other hand, debating now, in a situation where we have a huge scandal in Polish-Israeli relations - I think so, we think as a modern club - is inappropriate. As a modern club, we have gathered a number of opinions from Polish-Jewish institutions in Poland, from the Righteous among the Nations, and they all really speak with one voice: the idea of a law - yes, but not at that time. Mr. Marshal! At the last session of the Sejm, we managed to withdraw this law from the sitting, from the agenda. I have a great request for you to contact President Andrzej Duda's law firm, to withdraw this law and not approve it now that we do not have a repaired Polish-Israeli relationship. I'm asking you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u3	High Seym! Mrs. Member! I'm not going to look for it in the rules here anymore, but here's the situation. We discussed this at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau before an hour ago and at the meeting of the Seniors' Convention half an hour ago with the following statement: this item is scheduled for tomorrow, or at an hour. 14... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: For today.]] ...which is why it's time for today, about by the hour. Twelve, 13, consult, and that's what I've decided. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Cool.]] I will consult with the President of the Republic of Poland and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on whether the President would agree to move this point to another time, to the next session of the Sejm. I would remind you that there was a similar situation three weeks ago. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Yes.]] The Member has also acted. The President's office and the President have asked for a transfer, to postpone the debate on this point, and we have done so. If that is the case, then I will immediately call the Senior Convention to discuss the matter. If you agree to this procedure, it will be... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Good.]] Good. You don't have to speak anymore. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But I want to say.]] You're trying to tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u4	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say, because I very much respect your statement and I am very glad that there are moments that connect us, they begin to appear, and that there are fewer moments that divide us. I'm so happy for you. I withdraw this motion and wait for your Marshal's reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u5	Good. Thank you very much, Member. Right now, I'm asking Mr Secretary to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: No motion.]] But there was no proposal, the Member withdrew the proposal. [[Well, that's why I'm asking, because if he was, I'd object.]] Yes. Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 11, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12.30, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 17, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Ski Infrastructure Development - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Oder - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish Post - hour 5:30. The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians cordially invites you and your fellow Members to the Lent retreat which will take place from 21 to 23 March this year. They will start on Wednesday 21 March and Thursday 22 March at 3 p.m. 20 at St. Aleksandra at pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw, on Friday 23 March - at 3 p.m. 7.30 in the Seym Chapel at the House of Parliament. The retreat will be led by Fr. Professor Marek Kotyński from the Papal Theological Department in Warsaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u7	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on bailiffs (Prints No 1582 and 2032). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law on bailiffs, print No 1582. Let me remind you that this is a new law that regulates the status of a bailiff again, introduces a number of new solutions that are moving in this direction, so that, first of all, it will increase supervision of the activities of the bailiffs, secondly, lead to the situation of personal bailiffs, and thirdly, increase efficiency in their operation. A number of changes proposed by the Act are accepted by the bailiffs' environment. Of course, there are conflict points, there are points of doubt and discussion, but most of them we managed to discuss and make changes that satisfy the whole bailout environment. Let me draw your attention to the basic assumptions. First of all, we limit the number of cases that can be handled by one law firm to a maximum of 5,000. This is very important because it will lead to an even distribution of all cases throughout Poland, in all chamber offices. Secondly, we limit the chamber section to the area of appeal, which is most often to the borders of the voivodship. And thirdly, a very important solution is filming the activities of the bailiff in the field. It is a request of both creditors and bailiffs to document the activities so that there is no doubt - in the course of the activities carried out - whether there have been lawful acts or activities that have exceeded those limits. A number of amendments were made to the committee during its work. Most of these were legislative amendments aimed at clarifying the provisions proposed in the original draft, but there were also quite significant amendments that were going precisely towards concessions for the bailout environment. I would like to draw attention here, for example, to the higher powers of the asessors who, according to the original version of the project, were not able in principle to carry out activities in the field. The draft, after the work of the committee, sets out a number of exemptions in this respect and a number of activities which the experts will nevertheless be able to carry out on their own. There are also a number of changes that aim to bring about effective disciplinary action, because, of course, there were a lot of cases in which this procedure did not work. The supervision of the Minister of Justice today will indeed be realistic and will give the Minister the right to react immediately if irregularities are detected. So far it has been very different, it has been difficult to suspend the bailiff, it has been difficult to remove him from his duties even with bright and obvious irregularities. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present the proposal and recommend further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u9	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the government draft law on bailiffs, prints No 1582 and 2032. It is a new law governing the profession of bailiff, repealing the previous, 1997, on bailiffs and executions. This law lays down the rules of service and the rights and obligations of bailiffs, the rules of recruitment and preparation for the exercise of the profession, the rules of operation of the bailiff's self-government and the matters of disciplinary responsibility, and the rules of supervision of bailiffs and bailiffs. As regards administrative supervision, the principle remains that the bailiff remains a public officer operating at a specific district court. The President of the District Court has been provided with additional supervisory powers and the judicate supervision is exercised by the court. In carrying out enforcement and protective activities, bailiffs shall exercise public authority and be its body. The bailiff conducts his business as a profession of public trust and performs his activities personally, which is a principle and specific derogations may apply to bailiffs. A statutory definition of the law firm has been introduced. As far as the local jurisdiction of the bailiffs is concerned, the bailiff is to accept cases only from the area of appeal - that is one or two voivodeships - and it is limited to accepting cases from the choice of the creditor to 5 thousand. a year, which is intended to reduce the so-called phenomenon. Chamber wholesalers. Specific requirements have been laid down for the position of bailiff. First of all, it is Polish citizenship, full capacity for legal activities, impeccable character, uncriminality, completed higher law studies, held bailiff's application and passed chamber examination, at least 2 years of work as bailiff's assistant and ending 28 years at the time of appointment - I will remind you that earlier was the requirement of 26 years. The bailiff is appointed by the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice may refuse to appoint a bailiff when the average of cases in a given district would be less than 1 000. cases per bailiff in a given calendar year, excluding cases from the choice of the creditor. The bailiff is bound by court decisions which can directly interfere with enforcement activities. The Minister of Justice may suspend the bailiff from his duties. The Minister's order is an appeal. The Minister may withdraw the bailiff from office in very specific cases: if he considers him completely unfit for the duties of bailiff, in the event that the bailiff causes a shortage of more than 15 000. zł, in the absence of a civil liability agreement, in the case of the age of 65, except that there are transitional provisions, which provide that if the bailiff has completed 65 years before the entry into force of the legal act, he may work until its entry into force. The appointment as bailiff expires by law, if the bailiff died, resigned from the duties of bailiff, was legally punished with disciplinary punishment of expulsion from the bailiff service, was legally convicted of a intentional or deliberate tax offence, lost Polish citizenship, was legally incapacitated wholly or partially. In a specific chapter, the rights and obligations of the bailiff are defined. The bailiff, among others. he is not an entrepreneur, he may not take on additional employment, except in the scientific, teaching or teaching post of a higher education institution, provided that the performance of such employment does not interfere with the performance of the duties of bailiff. As regards the liability of the bailiff, he is obliged to remedy the damage caused by unlawful acts or omissions in the performance of his duties. The Treasury shall be liable for the damage in solidarity with the bailiff. It shall constitute an Article. Thirty-six percent of the bill. The State Treasury shall, in the event of compensation, have a return claim to the bailiff, unless the damage has been caused solely by the bailiff's compliance with the court's orders or administrative supervisory authorities. The appointment of a deputy bailiff has also been defined where he cannot carry out his duties due to legal or factual obstacles. Then the chairman of the competent district court shall appoint an alternate bailiff by order, which may be another bailiff or an assistant employed in the law firm of the absent bailiff, but this assistant must meet the requirement of at least two years' work. In a separate chapter, the issue of liquidation of the chamber firm was also addressed in detail, as was the issue of the bailiff's application, the principle of the initial examination for the application, the issue of the appointment of the selection board and its composition, the conditions for the application and the preparation of questions by the panel appointed by the Minister of Justice after consulting the National Chamber Council by means of a minister's regulation. This team consists of four representatives of the Minister of Justice, two representatives of the National Chamber Council and one scientific, scientific and educational or teaching staff. In detail, the rules in the area of bail-in applications, bail-out exams and the rights and duties of the assessors have also been regulated. The Presidents of the competent court of appeal shall appoint bailiffs. The bailiff is obliged to employ at least one assessor over a period of 3 years. The statutory standards also regulate the costs of the bailiff's enforcement activities and the rules for running the bailiff's law firm. The supervision of bailiffs is exercised by the Minister of Justice, the Presidents of Appeal Courts and the Presidents of District Courts, while the internal supervision is exercised by the bailiff's local government. Inspections and visits of chamber firms are provided. The bailiffs shall be required to submit annual reports on their activities to the administrative and local authorities. The organs of the bailiff's self-government are the National Chambers, the National Audit Committee and the Chambers. Chapter 11 contains provisions on disciplinary liability. Disciplinary penalties are the same as for other legal authorities, i.e. warning, reprimand, fines, suspension of activities, removal from service or deprivation of the right to pursue a profession, but there is a new form of disciplinary penalty in the bailiffs' law, i.e. the penalty for prohibiting the admission of cases from the choice of creditor for a period of between 1 and 3 years. The draft law amends a number of trade union laws, mostly in the enforcement rules of the Code of Civil Procedure. These changes in these provisions are 38. They aim to simplify these procedures. The amendments also extend the powers of enforcement authorities to request clarification from public authorities. A complaint against the bailiff's activities and an enforcement request may be lodged on an official form. There is also a record concerning recording by means of an image recording device and sound in the scope of execution operations carried out by the bailiff outside the bailiff's office. This action is 12. They are listed in Article. 809 c.p.c. The limitation of enforcement in Article has also been extended. 829 c.p.c. for such household appliances, which so far has not been, such as fridge, washing machine, oven, microwave oven, hob, beds, table and chairs in the number necessary. In the interim rules, the principle is that the existing provisions apply to cases initiated and not completed on the date of entry into force of the Act. On behalf of the club, I'm making three more amendments. These amendments concern the clarification of the amendments to the Article. 801 k.p.c., Art. 801 Civil Procedure Code. [[And the cost?]] They also deal with matters relating to disciplinary responsibility as regards applicants and bailiffs. In addition, the date of entry into force of this Law shall be postponed to 1 January 2019, except for Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 288. These articles concern administrative proceedings before the Minister of Justice for the appointment of a bailiff. The extension of the date of entry into force of this law is due to the registration of these activities of the bailiff outside the law firm. On behalf of the club, I request the endorsement of this bill. I'm placing three amendments on the hands of the Marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government draft law on bailiffs, print No 2032. For the express pace of work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights concerning government draft laws in the field of the Ministry of Justice, it must be said that the work on this bill lasted quite long, since the first reading took place in June. Several dozen substantive amendments have been made in the course of the project in both the subcommittee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and more than 1,000 have been tabled. legislative comments, so it cannot be said that the draft submitted in the Sejm was a well-prepared project. New amendments have been tabled today, which confirms my thesis. At first reading, speaking on behalf of the club, I said that the justification for the bill does not really specify what the overriding purpose of this law is. I also drew attention to some of the negative consequences of the project that we are talking about for bailiffs, but what is also important - for creditors. It is appropriate to agree with the opinions that the proposed provisions are often characterised by a lack of justification, coherence or precision. The project also often duplicates the errors of the applicable regulations and introduces solutions which not only serve to improve the functioning of the judicial enforcement system, but, on the contrary, announce a deterioration in the conditions of the bailiff's profession and the dysfunction of the judicial enforcement system, which contradicts the declared objectives of the new regulation. Some of these doubts have been clarified during the committee's work, as amendments have been tabled, but some comments and questions remain valid, for example. The interference of the legislator in constitutionally defined laws of the bailiff's self-government as a self-government profession of public trust raises doubts. It must be said that the project significantly increases the supervisory and control powers of the Minister of Justice over bailiffs. In the event of gross or persistent infringement by the bailiff, he will be able to revoke the bailiff from office. Currently, it is not possible for the Minister of Justice to initiate proceedings for the dismissal of the bailiff. The Minister will also be able to suspend the bailiff at any stage of disciplinary proceedings. In addition, the President of the District Court will be able to withdraw immediately from the bailiff's activities, which grossly infringes the law, and directly request the Minister of Justice to withdraw him from office. The frequency of bailiffs' checks by the Presidents of the courts will be increased. At present, such a check must be carried out at least once every four years, and this will be done once every two years after the amendment. The ad hoc checks may be carried out at any time. The court will ex officio examine the correctness of the bailiff's activities. If errors are detected in the bailiff's activities, the court will have to correct the error. In turn, all enforcement activities in the field will be recorded and the recorded image and sound will be part of the case file. The question is whether such recordings will violate the right to privacy and the standards of protection of the rights of the debtor, the creditor as well as third parties. According to some opinions, such a solution will also create additional costs, which may be burdensome especially for small firms. Comments should be made on the provisions on administrative supervision of the bailiff. In the opinion of Prof. Andrzej Marciniak, the draft law duplicates the previous legislative error granting the Minister of Justice the competence to appoint a disciplinary officer and his alternates. According to the author of this opinion, this is a limitation of the powers of professional self-government in favour of the representative of the executive authority. The Commission's report on Justice and Human Rights provides for the restoration of public enforcement fees and therefore will constitute a full charge for the Treasury, and the bailiff, depending on the results of his work, will be entitled to a commission remuneration fixed in proportion to the amount of the fees collected. Such a solution raises concern about the financial collapse of many law firms, which can lead to a situation in which, instead of addressing courts and bailiffs, entrepreneurs will use all kinds of debt collection companies, and this can lead to a situation in which the bailiffs will take over the place of the companies, which unfortunately happens, operating on the border of law. Prof. Mariusz Jabłoński pointed out in his opinion to the bill that the institutions of the deputy bailiff and the curator of the law firm established in the draft law were not sufficiently precisely regulated. In turn, the procedure for their designation is characterised by discretion and arbitrariness, deepened by the absence of any appeal procedures. Also, the legal status of the bailiff developed by this draft law contains some ambiguities, the formation of the rights and obligations of the bailiff was based on a combination of characteristics characteristic for different legal relations. The employment ratio of the bailiff on the basis of the bill combines the characteristics of the independent activity, the employment relationship and the indeterminate business relationship. According to dr Ewa Staszewska leaving the project in such a state constitutes a kind of privatisation of public authority. In turn, according to Prof. Andrzej Marciniak, the proposal for a change concerning the legal status of the bailiff threatens to reduce the effectiveness of the judicial execution to a level prior to the entry into force of the 1997 law on bailiffs and executions. There are also doubts about the proposed provisions concerning the bail-in application, which do not provide for the possibility for applicants to carry out certain activities themselves, while the application is intended to prepare the profession in practice. In my opinion, the inability to entrust bailiff applicants with certain activities on behalf of the bailiff may result in the applicants not being properly prepared for the occupation. The possibility of entrusting only office and order activities to the applicant after one year of application is insufficient in the proper training process. It is stressed that all laws governing the functioning of legal professions provide for the possibility for applicants to perform certain activities themselves. It is enough to indicate the provisions of the Law on Lawyers or Law on Lawyers, which provide for the possibility of the applicant being replaced by a patron before common courts. Disabling bailiffs to act on their own during the application may result in the execution of the person who completes the application only after having been appointed as bailiff. The proposed education system will have a negative impact on its quality. The bailiffs will also be able to carry out enforcement activities only on an exceptional basis. So the bailiffs will have to do their job personally and alone. It also appears that the introduction of such restrictions will significantly impede the learning of applicants and the reliable preparation of an asessor to carry out execution tasks on his own in the future and will make it difficult to carry out enforcement procedures efficiently and effectively. According to Dr. Grzegorz Julke, the act presented contrary to the announcements does not constitute a new act which would properly and modernly regulate the functioning of judicial enforcement bodies. The law does not contain new solutions, it is mostly a duplication of existing legislation, it only significantly extends the system of supervision of bailiffs and significantly restricts the functioning of the bailiff's authorities. There is also serious concern about the model of financing executions, which is a significant reduction in funds for bailiffs to carry out execution activities, which may, according to many experts, lead to the collapse of executions in Poland. To conclude, Mr Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I would like to say that the final decision on whether to support or vote against this law will be taken after an examination of the amendments tabled today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present our position on the draft law on bailiffs. First of all, the first reservation. I don't really understand why we spend 10 minutes on this bill and a major bill on bailouts - 5 minutes. It should be the other way around. Let me say this, ladies and gentlemen: I am amazed at such a smooth tone that the bill is good, because that's more or less how I can read it. I think it's more like a setup with bailiffs of all the parliamentary clubs. [[Applause]] All of them, I stress. In order to confirm this, I will tell you - it is clear from the data of the Ministry of Justice - that the average income of the bailiff in 2012 was 46 thousand, in 2015, the average - 536 thousand, and after the introduction of this law it will amount to 60.70 thousand. That's how you make the laws. Let's start with the first important case, ladies and gentlemen, with Article. 149 and Article 149 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 150, which is to restore the public-law nature of enforcement fees. What's causing this? Because the Polish state becomes a loan shark in this situation, [[Applause]] Because he makes money out of misery and debtors and creditors. What's that even supposed to mean? What kind of business do you have to raise bail bonds? Unless you want to hide 23%. the VAT, against which the Constitutional Tribunal has declared itself, has been dealt with by a common court. In view of this situation, unfortunately, we have a problem because these laws should, however, be dealt with together, because they must be started with them. Our amendment aims above all at removing the article. 149 and Article 149 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 150, returning to the normal income of bailiffs, and thus - reducing the cost of execution, because execution costs are higher than they were. I want to remind you that 94% liabilities are monetary liabilities, i.e. practically speaking, most classes are made from bills through a payroll account, a ZUS account and other things, and thus pulling these charges up. To date, this fee was 8% , only in the case of immovable property, in the case of movable property, etc. was 15%. So I'm asking PiS -- I have a basic question -- applicants, ministry: You promised people a reduction in bail costs, what happened? In fact, we have a raise, and you're still telling us that this is a reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some 4.5 million titles in Poland - about a year or so. If we count that this applies to families, there are about 10 million citizens who are both creditors and debtors. Well, what's the point of raising charges when the same debtor can't pay it back because of his poverty anyway? I expected that the bail-in bill would introduce, like other Western countries, mediation by the bailiff, which I will talk about when it comes to the bail-out costs. In simple cases, it comes down to the fact that we release the courts in the case of clear cases. Yesterday at the KoLiber Association conference, a very nice proposal was presented. It's a shame it's so late. [[Applause]] But unfortunately, it's about less cases in the courts and getting along with the creditor, and the bailiff being such a mediator in this whole thing. And we take the axe, 10%. We give the bailiff and we say this: within two weeks, if you pay back, you'll pay 3% for the bailout, and then you'll pay 10%. And we don't care if the creditor could pay back or not, whether the bailiff went after it or not, there's 10% left. And that's it. I would like to remind you that out of each 1000 PLN in this situation 100 PLN will have to be allocated for bail-out fees. Count it to the working hours of an employee in Poland. These are unacceptable things, because what are they causing as a result, ladies and gentlemen? If the debtor does not repay, the creditor will not receive the money. I guess the role of execution and the role of bailiff is that the creditor gets money from the debtor. And it is best when this is carried out in as convenient a form as possible, even with the distribution of this payment into instalments. This can be written in the form of a provision e.g. In the bailiff's office. And then it's realized and the execution costs are much lower. That's what no one thought about at this bill. I stress that once again, I'm curious about the compatibility of the clubs here. I would like to say that during the second reading in the Committee on Justice, there was no representative of PSL, there was no representative of Modernity, you were Vice-President Wolf of the Civic Platform, and that is all, the rest are the PiS Members themselves, Mr Janusz Sanocki and I. So I'm just asking what was the interest in this case. How were you even interested in this law, which is very important for about 10 million citizens? What was your interest? Note that in the second reading there was not a single amendment to the bailiffs bill, not a single amendment to the bailiff's cost law. Ladies and gentlemen, the only amendment was my amendment to reduce costs from 10%. up to 8%. So I'm surprised that for example. When we approved the candidacy for a member of the Court of State or the Constitutional Tribunal, there was a room full of Members of the Platform, Modern and thousands of questions - always the same, whoever we approve, always the same sequence of questions - and when the case concerned people, in fact people, it was none of you. [[Applause]] And today you're so flatly talking about what is the bailiff training, what is the assesura, what is it or that. Yes, in this bill on bailiffs, I do not want to destroy it so completely, after all, we supported it, there are some very good points, among others. It's about recording, issuing payment orders in a given year, etc., that he won't be able to do business, that he won't be able to be a member of any supervisory board, that he needs to have a higher education, that supervision will be increased. Yes, they are positive, but there is one of the biggest negatives that makes us in no way support this bill. That's the commission fee of the bailiffs. Minister, that's a bad assumption at the start. This is wrong. [[That's not the bill.]] No, this is the bailiff bill. This is... [[Yeah, but not about the cost.]] ...sir, it's too bad you don't know, Art. 149 and 150. You're the rapporteur and you don't know the bill. It's in the bailiffs bill, not in the execution cost bill. So that I would advise you to get a better look at the bill for the future before it comes to your attention. I stress, ladies and gentlemen, once again, that this article, if it is not removed from this law, will be wrong from the ground up and will simply increase costs. And, Mr reporter, please do not tell us that this is a reduction in the cost of execution, because this is an increase in the cost of execution. The base rate was 15% in the previous act, and so-called. special - 8% - Yeah, that's right - only those 8% was used in most cases, because these 15% practically didn't download. So that's what it looked like in practice. I'm not in favour of anything else either. While it is written in this bill that VAT will not be added, it is hidden in other enforcement fees, which we will discuss at the next point when we talk about the costs of the fees. In the light of the above, Kukiz15 does not in any way support this law. I wanted to make two amendments in this respect, to delete the article. 149...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u16	...and art. 150. And I urge you to think about it, because it is unacceptable for you to be a loan shark for people. [[Applause]] in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u18	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present a modern position on the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on bailiffs, print No 2032. The declared aim of the project is to introduce solutions to restore confidence in bailiffs as public officers and to increase supervision of bailiffs, and to create consistent regulation in the above matters. Unfortunately, in all these aspects, failure is to be expected if solutions proposed by the Ministry of Justice are introduced. The project submitted is insufficient and unclear to determine the status of the bailiff. Although the proposed solutions indicate that the bailiff remains a public officer who benefits from special criminal protection and is subject to the rules of criminal law applicable to public officials, the principle of exclusive jurisdiction of judicial bailiffs as the only one in addition to the courts of enforcement bodies carrying out judgments of the courts of the Republic of Poland is also maintained, however, the following provisions indicate that as a public officer it remains in a specific relationship with the State Treasury and - I quote from the justification of the project - receives commission remuneration, deducted from enforcement fees, which are of a public nature. On the other hand, in the same law, the rules indicate the abnormal working time of the bailiff, determined solely by the number of tasks, the business formula, i.e. the independent individual law firm, as well as the commission remuneration, which unfortunately is to be taxed on goods and services, which is the result of the law. The efficiency of the judicial system consists not only of the speed of court proceedings and the legitimacy of judgments taken by courts, but also of the effectiveness of enforcement of those judgments. The provisions of this law are in contrast to the principle of the correctness of judicial proceedings. According to the National Chamber Council, the proposed solutions can contribute to the liquidation of up to 60% of bail-out firms. Last year we had a very important number of quit jobs that did not take place in previous years. In view of the above, a significant decrease in the efficiency of the enforcement of judgments is expected. In this way, unfortunately, instead of helping to enforce maintenance claims or employee claims, the government paradoxically creates a certain protective umbrella for the kind of debtors who prey on citizens. This bill will in no way increase confidence in the profession of bailiff. There are also bad records regarding the supervision of bailiffs. They are inconsistent with the justification of the law, lead to duplication of supervisory activities and once again confirm the excessive competence of the Minister of Justice. Despite the declaration that the President of the regional court is the most important, fundamental link of administrative supervision, this role will actually be played by the Minister of Justice. It is for him that full competence is reserved, starting with the formulation of questions for the application exam, and ending with the possibility of dismissing bailiffs. In conclusion, the proposed project does not meet its basic objectives. He's inconsistent and incomprehensible. There is no doubt that the adoption of this law will not in any way contribute to the elimination of distortions in the judicial enforcement system, but will only lead to chaos and confusion, which will adversely affect the rights of ordinary citizens to pursue their debts. In view of the fact that it is a legal buble, Members of Modern Affairs will vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Paszik gave his position in writing. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni. There's no envoy. Okay, well, let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 saved e.g.: a person who is impeccable may be appointed as bailiff. I have a question: How will this be assessed and verified? Can this record lead to manipulation and misunderstandings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u21	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act establishes the stigma of dishonest bailiffs, but restrictions will also affect those who carry out their duties properly, respecting the rights and dignity of another human being. First of all, assesons will no longer be able to execute, they will have to do so by the bailiffs themselves. With the failure of the bailiffs, it can become a strong brake to block the proceedings and delay their implementation. According to the project, all enforcement activities carried out in the field are to be recorded and the recorded image and sound will be part of the case file. It is only by regulation that the Minister will determine how this is to be done. The Act is to enter into force on 1 July this year. In view of the need to formulate complex implementing acts and to adapt the bailiffs to new realities, is this term sufficient? I have doubts, in my opinion, no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u23	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question is about the bailout application. Is the solution proposed in the draft law preventing the applicant from performing bailiff activities in the bailiff a good idea? This is a fundamental question. The profession cannot be learned only from theory, the practice is very important for every profession, not only for the bailiff, but also for the bailiff. Only after a year will the applicant be able to carry out the activities, and only in office and order activities. This is far from sufficient in the proper training process. After all, all laws relating to applicants provide for the possibility for applicants to perform certain tasks themselves. Why doesn't this apply to the bailout application? Do we agree to a lower standard of preparation of the bailout application? Do we accept that the future bailiff should not be fully educated? I'm asking you, why? What was the government doing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u25	Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the consequences of adopting this project, and I am thinking here about the liquidation of about 60% of bail-out firms, which is mostly linked to the loss of work by hundreds of people. But I wanted to ask you about a different context, other consequences. Wouldn't a reduction in the number of law firms interfere with the creditors' claim of their rights? My concern mainly concerns the claims of women, mothers who receive their maintenance claims. Please inform me, or rather ensure that the new rules on the functioning of law firms and possibly reducing their number will not hinder the execution of bailiffs from those obliged to pay maintenance services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u27	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the fees to the state budget that have been introduced in this law. Namely, I understand that the point is that the bailiffs will be treated as public servants, so that the fee they charge will be a budget charge and they will only take a commission from it. You're introducing this commission here up to 40%. collected, enforced debts. So it's just as it's been said here: there's a racket on the entire debt enforcement process, instead of minimizing the costs of bailout, these costs are getting bigger and the Treasury comes in here, who takes the money for what and why. I wanted to ask you about law firms that have over 2 million annual turnover, how many law firms there are and how many cases they run. Because maybe these firms aren't that many, but they run a lot of things. In this regard, it will soon be apparent that these most efficient, most efficient firms, which run a lot of cases, will have to pay 40% to the Treasury. So it's going to become an uneconomic activity for them. Here there is no such scale of efficiency - the larger the law firm, the smaller the unit costs. You still have to pay your staff, you have to pay your asses, you have to pay your own costs to enforce something. Aren't you afraid? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That big law firms would just stop running at least, I don't know, half the cases because it wouldn't pay off? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u29	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why does the State Treasury want to make money on debtors and creditors using commission? Don't you think it's gonna increase the cost of bailiff execution? As life shows, people who have not been in debt because of their guilt have fallen into debt, for example. Because of your loss of work, and you're ruthlessly trying to beat them up and bring them down. That's what I call it. Weed. For example, people who have lost their jobs have no rent, and the bailiff is about to come in and kill them. Is this what a good change and concern for a sovereign is supposed to look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u32	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! One of the most important questions: Is this amendment concerning, among others, Will the bail-out fees allow for faster, more efficient execution? Why am I asking this? Because in a situation of borrowing and enforcement, it is sometimes the guarantors who have to fulfil their obligations in this enforcement process. Thus, the speed and efficiency of execution are one of the elements that reduce costs on the part of the person from whom the obligation is enforced. Second thing. In this context, did you lean over two cases? The first is a change in the field of the Land Trading Act so that it can be enforced from real estate, which would allow those who have begun such enforcement proceedings to meet the loan more quickly. What is the issue of enforcement today when amendments or government projects have increased the amount free of enforcement activities, indicating a single deadline? We have liabilities for borrowings, liability for the guarantee of deposits, and, on the other hand, an increased amount free of execution and no possibility of effective enforcement due [[♪ The bell ♪]] commitments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u33	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question to the Minister: Is it true that in the last year, 2017, about 100 bailiffs have left the profession and that it is four times more to go than in the case of normal rotation in the bailiff's profession? Don't you think that these departures are merely a prostration of those proposed by the Ministry of Justice amendments to the bailiffs bill? Aren't you afraid that the entry into force of this law will result in a complete collapse in the system of bail-out and thus significantly affect the reduction of business turnover, its liquidity and creditors' rights? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u35	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure of presenting you with the first bill in 20 years, which comprehensively regulates the system of bailiffs. For the first time, we are restoring bailiffs to you: so far they have only been public officials by name, unfortunately. In order to satisfy their own financial interests, their law firms - I am about to show these statistics - carried out their own financial interests and the State's profit on this basis was minimal. Right now, we're bringing the bailiffs back to you as his officers. The most important thing in this law - what we pay attention to and what we stress - is a clearly defined system of powers and obligations of both debtors and creditors. The structure of the bailiff's profession has been clearly described. The protection of both debtors and creditors at this point, on an unprecedented scale, is precisely described in this law, in almost 400 articles, because so many provisions are comprehensively regulated by both laws. Protection against abuse. The huge scale of the problem that the media reported was talking about. We're done with these situations. Protection against fraud, e.g. recording off-site operations of bailiffs. This is what the information duties on the bailiff's side are for. We restore the principle that this bailiff, as a public officer, acts on behalf of the interests of the state and in the political dimension of the system, symbolically uses the emblem of the Polish state; he acts personally and not, as yet seen by the whole of Poland, performs younger colleagues, uses one of several dozen or dozens of assesors. I will also move on to this in a moment when it comes to education, training and apprenticeship. Therefore, I have the honour to present to you a huge amendment, a comprehensive, first in many, many years an amendment of this nature, essential, fundamental to the functioning of executions in Poland. At the same time, in answer to questions, I would like to strongly protest against the false accusations that lie here. In the first place, I would like to address Mr Jachnik, despite all his sympathy: unfortunately, these figures and these indicators, which he gives, are not actually based, Mr. First of all, the bailiff's fee, the enforcement fee has always been a public tribute. The Treasury received none of this, and it was entirely in the pockets of most bailiffs. What are the stats like? 12.1% - that was the average fee. We're bringing it down to 10. The numbers speak for themselves. Next: approx. 50% the bailiffs charged a fee of 15% . This fee was not virtual, Mr President, as you suggested here. We restore the real nature of this public tribute, this fee. That's one thing. Secondly, please pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the State does not maintain bailiffs. The state doesn't organize these offices. The state merely from its empire lends part of this empire as regards this duty to do business. In no way does the State participate in the running of these firms. Therefore, it must be noted that a reasonable system, I repeat: reasonable enforcement fees are used to maintain the whole system. The Member's proposals would go straight to blowing up this system. In any case, please note that there is a characteristic double vote here in the positions of opposition representatives. On the one hand, Mr Święcicki points to the collapse of the enforcement system, indicating that this country is in this case the one who, unfortunately, robs bailiffs of their ability to pursue the profession, deprives them of these opportunities, while at the same time leads to the fact that the bailiffs do not want - as one of the messengers suggested - to create new firms and leave the profession. On the other hand, Mr Jachnik's voice is here, which indicates that we are in some virtual arrangement with bailiffs and that this law does not in any way serve to improve the interests of citizens, but is created to satisfy the interests of bailiffs. Neither position nor position, definitely extreme, is true. We put in place a reasonable system in such a way that, on the one hand, we take care of the system of charges so that it does not fail, that any creditor who receives a favourable judgment for himself may feel safe, he knew that this sentence would be enforced and that the money that belongs to him would go to him. It must be such a guarantee in the system and we cannot, Mr President, make it impossible for the creditors to deprive them of that right. They are entitled to money that has been convicted by a final judgment, but on the other hand we cannot lead to a gross violation of the rights, the dignity of debtors under the mantle of execution, and this has often been the case. Debtors are robbed over their wealth and there are no guarantees regarding the actions of certain bailiffs. Not all of them, because these examples we've heard are only about certain people, but the system was so holes that it didn't prevent abuse. Therefore, we, on the one hand, safeguard the interests of creditors and the interests of debtors in new solutions, ensuring that the system continues to function smoothly. Besides, you are not a loan shark, sir. What loan shark? 1-percent when he makes a fee through the tax office? [[40%.]] Art. The 150 you were referring to is about the rules. What are the rules? The enforcement fee is a public charge and only 1% is charged by the State When the total revenue, the fees did not exceed 500 million... [[Thousands.]] $500,000. zł. How many law firms or lawyers have income at the threshold of 500,000. Evil? So in this case, it's hard to say. any violation of the system rules. In addition, 1% is charged, Mr, on a fee collected and not added. Thus, this money is not collected from the debtor. The state doesn't take the money from the debtor. Therefore, there are no risks on the part of debtors. The system, this law serves, will serve debtors, protect them against abuse. Mrs Krzywonos drew attention to the concept of good opinion. Mrs. Member! The concept of impeccable character has been functioning for many, many years in many corporate and professional laws. Previously, there was an impeccable opinion, and we're converting it into a concept of impeccable character. Integrity of character - the right concept for legal professions, already quite detailed in literature, in case law. We know what it means, which is why we absolutely do not want to break down open doors, introduce some new concepts. Since we have a well - defined concept of integrity, we refer to it. Moreover, this concept brings with it, as is pointed out in the literature, a very significant material, substantive meaning. This is not just a matter of good opinion, an external opinion of entities that relate to a particular entity. It's more than that. It is about examining whether this character is really flawless. Not only an opinion, I repeat, not only an external environmental interview about a given person, but also a real question of whether its character is impeccable. So that this change is very important substantively, but already established in many other laws. Mrs Navel pointed out the issue of training. We've got about 1620 bailiffs right now. Their number is increasing, but the applicants are to learn, not to be used for the bailiff to carry out them, as has often been the case so far. Do you imagine that an applicant, a man just after college, is taking someone's life's fortune? [[He's not taking it. He's taking it. He's not taking it. He's taking it. This is different, Minister.]] It is difficult to introduce people right after college to perform such important activities. [[But maybe until class.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that we provide in the act a series of very large number of practical activities which may be carried out by applicants, but with the exception of seizure of property. Mrs Czernow also pointed out the issue of the bailout application. I believe that the answer for Mrs Navels is adequate to answer the next question, about the relationship between theory and practice. Practice - yes, but in relation to assessors, not to applicants. Another point is related to what I have just said, with good opinion, with impeccable character, and at the same time to the question of Mr Święcicki, which I am slowly going through at the moment. Namely, Mr Pampuch pointed out the risk of winding up the firm, like Mrs Skowrońsk or Mr Pampuch. You were referring to the likelihood of liquidation of the firm, which would result from an opinion... This is no longer the case, but I am here to inform you that this risk is a risk entirely without rational arguments. This is due to the opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers made on request based on the opinion of 60 bailiffs. 60 bailiffs have drawn up an opinion that PricewaterhouseCoopers has used, which concludes that a large part of the firm will be wound up. So that I leave without comment the reliability of this opinion and the reliability of the data that are disseminated. I repeat: the number of bailiffs is increasing. We have about 1620 bailiffs at the moment and there is absolutely no danger, i.e. The risk of any kind of system disruption. And what's it like with that impeccable reputation or with that impeccable character? Young bailiffs who enter the market and open their law firms are being blocked by older colleagues in such a way that the House Councils sue gradually for the creation of new law firms, claiming that there are too many of them. And this is probably the best response to the concerns about the collapse of the system, about the insufficient number of bailiffs and the fear that there will be no one to enforce our claims. There's no risk. The bailiffs themselves, I repeat, by blocking access to the profession for young colleagues, claim that there are too many of them, so they are suing the courts for new law firms. We don't have a problem with being a bailiff, it's already a problem with setting up such a law firm. As you can see... [[And the effectiveness of the execution?]] ...and there is no concern that the debtor's interests will be violated, nor is there any concern that the system will collapse. It's a comprehensive bill, a bill that for the first time... [[And the effectiveness of the execution?]] ...in the history after 1989 regulates the system comprehensively, restoring bailiffs to the state - not only by name will they be public officials from now on. I'm asking for her support. This is a great bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In the title of correction, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u37	Thank you. Okay, Mrs Skowronska with a correction. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Besides what the new bailiff organization will look like, I asked about the effectiveness of executions in the context of other laws and other laws, and I asked the Minister for such an answer. This covered two issues, including: the sale of land, the law on the trading of land and the increase from day to day, without vacathio legis, the amount free of execution, which significantly, significantly, unfortunately, worsened the enforcement, and on the other hand endangered people who, for example. they guaranteed such obligations, that such conduct had been carried out in respect of them. Did... Also in this respect, because we are talking about the whole market, not only about organisation, but about its importance in the economy, this is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u39	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u40	Madame, this is a very good question. Thank you for them, because it's my job to show off that we have the biggest in years... [[I'll be in touch with the Minister.]] ...from 1997 onwards, the effectiveness of the execution. The effectiveness of executions, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of effectiveness of executions is the highest after 1997. This is a great success. That is why this system, which we are now showing you in the form of this law, serves to strengthen what we already have. This effectiveness of execution shows that the system of supervision of the Minister of Justice, an effective system operates. At the same time, I wanted to draw attention to what was previously asked in the case of too much powers of the Minister of Justice. It is absolutely not true what you have suggested that the Minister here claims to have some competence over the bailiffs. It is the presidents of the regional courts who have all the powers you have mentioned. Therefore, the Minister does not have specific powers, competences in this context. However, I repeat, the oversight system by the Minister of Justice as already functioning and sanctioned by this law that we are introducing is the best... [[And the amount free of execution?]] ... the result of the highest execution in 1997. Thank you so much for that question. [[You didn't answer the Minister, the amount free of execution.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u41	Now, my fellow Member, please calm down. [[But I'm calm, but the Minister isn't answering.]] Oh, no, because you're screaming. What kind of culture is this, anyway? Screaming. [[What do you call me, Marshal? What is this culture of attention?]] I address you as you deserve it, Member. Please, Mr Święcicki, with a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister was kind here to talk about the PricewaterhouseCoopers report that these are the opinions of 60 bailiffs. Well, this report is not an opinion. These are, Minister, financial analysis of the costs and revenues of these firms. And from the cost-based calculations and revenues of these firms, it appears that, following the financial changes that you have proposed, some of these firms will simply be in a deficit situation. It is not the opinion that I don't like it and I can go bankrupt, but these are the calculations made by professionals based on accounting and records of these 60 firms, their revenues, uses, costs and what this bill generates in the form of new costs. So that I would not underestimate this opinion, because the opinion is really, I think, very disturbing with regard to these laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u43	Thank you. Minister, I understand, won't answer? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion looked like a war on two worlds, you can say, because on the one hand there are representatives of the Civic and Modern Platform, who point out that the bailiffs will be making too little money, and the creditors should have the tools in order to be able to arrive by proverb, on the other hand we have a representative of Mr Jachnik, who says that the fees should be the best half or even less, and better not to charge the debtors. Ladies and gentlemen, in the opposition, such views and these thesis can be preached, while we must be responsible about the issue. Where is the truth between these poles that are 180 degrees apart on a 360 scale? Right inside. It is in the provisions of this law that there is the golden measure that we are talking about. First, the execution must be effective, the execution is intended to actually enforce the debts, but it must respect the dignity and honor of the debtor, and of course it cannot be unduly costly. And these are the objectives that legislators, project promoters have pursued to propose such legislation. She does not favor creditors in any way, gives no reason for bailiffs to feel threatened from the point of view of efficiency and maintenance of the firm. On the other hand, it ensures the effectiveness of executions. None of your extreme ideas are good in this case. We have to approach this as simply as in the world of responsibility. The Member asked whether large firms would have problems. They're gonna have problems because we don't want big firms. Reducing the number of cases to 5,000 will cause these cases to be evenly distributed throughout Poland. It's not gonna be that one law firm had 200,000 just recently. cases and others - 200. Today it's gonna be about a few thousand cases per firm. What will that lead to? He's gonna lead to a situation where someone's gonna take this case into their hands at all, because so far there's actually been no time for that. This resulted in many mistakes. This resulted in problems of enforcement not only from the debtor because he had a similar name. For this reason, there were problems with the fact that the assesaurs were doing their job massly, because the bailiffs were unable to act in the event of such a number of executions. When the tractor was occupied in Mazury, it turned out that the bailiff didn't know anything about it because he sent an asessor. Then the bailiff could not be held liable. Ladies and gentlemen! Pay attention to who you're defending. Our analysis really indicates that such designed enforcement fees will lead to not a very large enrichment of bailiffs, but at the same time to effective executions. That's what we're all supposed to be after to find that gold center somewhere. We must also take into account the fact that in mid-2017 there was a radical change in the situation of bailiffs that they became VAT payers. Today, the collected amounts to a gross sum. They must pay VAT on this duty. This has already significantly reduced their income. Mr President, quoting from this place the revenues of the firm in 2012 is really crazy, because since then these salaries have fallen three times. We have data from 2015, 2016 and 2017. They're terrifying. [[536, Mr President, in 2015]] Mr President, you alleged that some of the Members of the opposition from the Platform and from the Modern Platform did not participate in the work of the committee. It turns out that being, participating in work isn't enough, you have to listen to it, you have to read it. In your case, sir, this is not enough. Indeed, basic knowledge indicates that these charges cannot be reduced more, because today we have dozens of law firms that have resigned, and you would still like to limit them. Are you talking about usury? Then I will draw your attention to the fact that this fee will not be passed on to the debtor, but will be charged on the fee charged by the bailiff, so it will not, to any extent, bear the costs of this solution. As regards the limitation of execution, there was also an argument here, which does not concern this law, but nevertheless concerns enforcement, as regards the limitation of the execution of pensions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and I am surprised that the state is raising this, we have reduced the execution of pensions, from the lowest pensions. We cannot allow momentary creditors to take up half their pension and not give up on the lowly ones. Of course, we have limited this and we absolutely do not intend to withdraw from it. For these reasons, as I say, ladies and gentlemen, you can tell us what the spit on your tongue will bring, from the right to the left. We have a golden measure that regulates execution at the right level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u45	Thank you. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u46	Minister! Mr. Speaker! There will be one thematic correction. Well, yesterday we had a meeting with the judges of the candidates for the KRS. One of those judges said he couldn't imagine judging a case like he didn't issue an invoice at least once in his life. And you're just such a theorist who has no idea how execution works. [[I ran a law firm.]] Mr. Speaker! You're just saying stupid things here, saying that if it's brought back to the Treasury, it's not going to translate into bailouts. You need to know basic accounting rules, I'm not saying accounting anymore. It is known that if the bailiff pays some part of his salary in the form of a commission to the Treasury, he will earn less. If he makes less money, he's gonna have to take it out of other enforcement fees. That's what you've done. Thank you. [[Applause]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. The difference between PiS, Platform and Modern and us is that we care about the debtor and the creditor, and you care about the bailiffs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are referring to experience, then our experience, Mr President, is indeed very different because you have been a defendant in many cases, while I have been running a law firm for 3 years and have also been involved in execution. Taking away my powers and practices in this area is not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u49	Thank you. [[Still in corrigendum mode.]] Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u50	Mr. Speaker! It's true that I was a defendant, only I didn't have counsel like you. I defended myself and won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u51	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on bailiffs on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. The proposed law is intended to replace the existing law of 29 August 1997 on bailiffs and executions. It introduces comprehensive legal solutions to improve the standard of action of the bailiff in the area of enforcement. According to the project, supervisory and control powers of the Minister of Justice over bailiffs are to be substantially increased. He will be able, in the course of administrative proceedings, to take action ex officio, even to remove the bailiff from his post and, earlier, to suspend him if the bailiff grossly violates the law. According to the proposed amendments, the real supervision of the governors of the regional courts over the operation of bailiffs is also to be increased. The project gives the governors of the regional courts the power to remove the bailiff from the activities carried out for 30 days and to apply directly to the Minister of Justice for the dismissal of the bailiff. Today, such powers are not available to the presidents of the regional courts. According to the project, they will be obliged to take every action against bailiffs who violate the law or the principles of professional ethics. If the chairman of the district court has allowed a flagrant omission in the supervision of the bailiff, he himself will be exposed to an appeal from his post. Another important change is the introduction of an obligation to record individual enforcement activities of the bailiff carried out in the field. Such recording shall be part of the file of conduct included in the protocol. At the time of execution, the bailiff will be obliged to provide the debtor with a clear form of the complaint so that everyone can refer it to the competent court if there is an irregularity. Today, more than 80% of bailiff complaints are not taken into account by courts, often due to minor formal deficiencies. The project also introduces the principle that when the debtor's apartment is forced to be opened or searched by the bailiff, this must be done in the police's assistance. The rules for carrying out executions from mobility have been amended, among others. by specifying precisely the movables that are not occupied. This is intended to limit the arbitraryness of applicants in decisions that may deprive the debtor of the items necessary for his daily existence. These include items and household appliances such as a refrigerator, washing machine, vacuum cleaner, bed or stove for preparing meals. The list of infringements for which the bailiffs will be liable is to be extended. Such actions will be accelerated. Chambers will be controlled at least once every 2 years, and not once every 4 years, as they are now. Financial control will also be carried out by the head of the competent tax office. According to the new regulations, the bailiff is to act in person and the activities he has assigned to the assessors can only have a training function as a preparation for the profession. The bailiff has all the responsibility, including compensation, for the proper functioning of the assessors. The aim of increasing the professionalism of bailiffs is to require that they have to have a higher education in law. Today 30% of bailiffs have no higher legal education, and about 9% He's barely a middle-school student. They will have to finish their legal studies within 7 years from 1 January of the year following the date of entry into force of the new law, or they will leave the profession. Since the bailiff, as a public servant, must have the right experience in life, the project raises the minimum age limit of a person appointed to this post from 26 years to 28. This solution is similar to the regulation of the lower age limit of the judge. At the same time, the upper limit of the age of the bailiff is reduced from 70 years to 65 years. This is justified by the special circumstances of the bailiff's work in the field. In addition to high legal qualifications, this profession also requires good physical fitness and psychophysical resistance. According to the project, the appointment as bailiff of persons who at the date of entry into force of the Act are 65 years old expires 2 years after the date of entry into force of the Act, but no later than the date of the end of 70 years of age. The bailiff will be able to operate mainly in his territory. It is only the absence of a delay in dealing with cases in the territory of more than 6 months that will give rise to a premium consisting in the possibility of accepting cases from the creditor's choice, subject to the fact that the bailiff will have the right to handle these cases only within the limits of the appeal. In addition, the bailiff will not be able to accept cases by choice of creditor when the impact of all cases in a given year exceeds 2,5 thousand and the effectiveness of his executions in the previous year will not exceed 35%, and when the impact of all cases in a given year exceeds 5 000. The statement of property made by the bailiffs will be supplemented by a clear indication of the income from the activities of the firm and revenue obtained from other sources and their amount. A copy of the statement will be sent to the competent tax office. The declaration shall be made public, following those concerning the Judges. The bailiff will have clear rules on the possibility of additional earnings - only scientific and teaching work - and business restrictions. The bailiff will only be able to live off the salary of the firm's work. These solutions will make the bailiff's status similar to that of a judge or prosecutor and eliminate situations where the bailiff could act in conflict of interest. The new rules change the shape of the bailiff's application - greater emphasis will be placed on the adoption of ethical principles and reliability in the pursuit of the bailiff's profession. It was proposed that the scope of the preliminary examination should include, inter alia,: material criminal law, matters relating to the administration of courts and the pursuit of the profession of bailiff. In the course of the committee's work, amendments to the draft were tabled, inter alia. providing that in the first 2 years of operation the bailiff will not be able to accept more than 2,5 thousand. matters from the choice of creditor per year. High Izbo! We were all appalled by the loud matter of the tractor occupation by the bailiff at Mława. There are many such cases in Poland, and without a doubt the conditions for fulfilling this extremely important social function, which is the function of the bailiff, require changes. However, it is not possible to go indifferently alongside how the proposed changes are addressed by the representatives of the bailiffs themselves. The bailiffs point out that such a far-reaching reduction in the powers of assesors and inevitable staff shortages in law firms will mainly affect single parents who will have problems with the execution of alimony, as well as receiving money from the maintenance fund. Now, in order to receive funds from the Fund, a certificate of unsuccessful execution must be presented. However, the bailiff can only spend it if he fails to obtain any money from the debtor, but not earlier than 2 months after the execution. It also needs to make sure that the debtor does not have any assets, and for this purpose, among others. carry out field activities at his place of residence. Only then can he issue an appropriate certificate. Changes in the bill according to the bailiffs may prolong this process and parents without money from the fund may for a long time be without means of life. You can also ask how applicants and assistants are to learn their profession in the light of such a drastic limitation of their rights in bailiffs. Their position will in fact be limited to the role of office worker, postman or camera operator. The Asessor will be able to go to the debtor, but he will have no right to enforce anything, and the debtor will simply be able to chase him away. In the course of field operations, which will only be carried out by the bailiff, applicants and assessors will only be able to hold the camera, i.e. their practical ability to prepare for the profession will be illusory. It's more or less as if the student was sitting only in the passenger's seat on his driving licence course. The project also has positive aspects. The obligation to register executions should contribute to improving compliance by bailiffs. Never enough publicity in public life. A precise definition of movements that are not occupied, i.e. to satisfy elementary needs, such as: The gas stove, also to a greater extent than today, will secure the interest of the debtor. The obligation to provide the debtor with a clear complaint form, so that everyone can refer it to the competent court, should increase the ability and knowledge of debtors to lodge effective complaints on the work of bailiffs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on bailiffs, prints No. 1582 and 2032. Procededed laws are the answer to the drastic actions of some bailiffs. The most famous cases concerned the occupation of a farmer's tractor from Mława and the occupation of the car owner of one of the companies in Gostynin. They have grown into a symbol of the negative actions of the bailiffs, but in practice we can find much more negative phenomena in this field of life. The need for a new legal act to restore confidence in the profession of bailiff as a public officer and to increase supervision of bailiffs is indisputable. During the intensive work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the extraordinary subcommittee on the government draft law on bailiffs, a number of legislative and substantive comments have been taken into account, which create a very coherent and comprehensive new law. Although the bill is very broad and its material is quite complex, the direction of the changes is consistent with the idea of transparent and effective execution. At the same time, standards are introduced which are accepted by both creditors and debtors. In order to increase the effectiveness of executions, quantitative changes have been made in the execution of executions by one bailiff at the same time. Or one law firm. The tightening act links the efficiency and backlog criteria in the cases under discussion, which means introducing a rule that the better the effectiveness and the less the backlog, the more matters that can be led by choice. In the context of the existence of irregularities in bail-in activities, it is appropriate to increase the supervisory and control powers of the Minister of Justice in respect of bailiffs. This should be served by recording all enforcement activities carried out in the field, while the recorded image and sound will be part of the case file. This change is crucial for checking the correctness of operations as well as impartiality and ethical standards of bailiffs' work. In addition, in the event of a gross or persistent infringement by the bailiff, the Minister of Justice will be able to exercise effectively the power of appeal of the bailiff of his own motion. The Minister will also be able to suspend the bailiff at any stage of disciplinary proceedings. In addition, according to the project, the Presidents of the courts will carry out checks on the work of the bailiffs at least once every 2 years. The bill provides appropriate guarantees to ensure that the bailiff is able to perform his duties properly. In addition, the bill removes many unclear rules that gave room for various interpretations, which led to pathological phenomena within the sphere of chamber activities. An example is the freedom of the assessors to carry out enforcement activities, which gave them the opportunity to take off the responsibilities of the bailiffs themselves on behalf of whom they acted. Currently, the project is moving towards defining all the powers in terms of activities that the assessor himself can undertake, and guaranteeing many of those powers that the assessors have performed today for the sake of personal execution by the bailiff. The profession of bailiff is a profession of public trust, not a business. In carrying out his duties, the bailiff enters directly into the constitutionally protected rights and freedoms of citizens, including fundamental property rights. We are convinced that the pending draft laws, after their adoption and entry into force, will restore the professional bailiff's high prestige. This will be served by increasing the supervision of the Minister of Justice over the activities of the bailiff's authorities, including among others. granting the Minister of Justice the power to verify the correctness of the entries made on the list of bailiffs. Maintaining the transparency of the enforcement process and the rules for the selection of bailiffs will improve the social acceptance of this important sphere of economic and civil trade. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government bill on bailiffs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u54	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft bill on bail-out costs (prints No 1581 and 2030). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on the draft bill on bail-out costs, print No 1581. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the report has already been discussed and discussed in this section on the law on bailiffs, but I will briefly point out the basic principles of this law. First of all, it is true that the bail-in fee becomes a fee, a public tribute. This is the way it should be, and this is a conscious, deliberate procedure. Part of this fee is transferred to the Treasury. Mr Jachnik calls it usury, and we recognise that this is a fee aimed at maintaining the entire system of bail-out, in which the State also has the task, such as the entire supervision of the activities of bailiffs carried out by the Ministry of Justice. You suggest, however, that more funds be left in the pocket of the bailiffs, so make up your mind, because on the one hand, you want to reduce the fee to half, and on the other hand you say that 1% cannot be collected in this respect. from the fee. But back to the report: the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has tabled some amendments to the bill. First of all, in the part concerning executions that are ineffective in the article. 29 proposed a solution whereby the creditor would be obliged to pay a fee of PLN 150 in a situation where execution would be ineffective. We know that this kind of charge could also hit creditors, let's say, faulty, individual, proverbial Jan Kowalski, which is why we narrowed this rule down during the work of the committee. I also know that an amendment will be tabled on behalf of the club, which will only apply to insurance companies and banks that deal with such activities, the trading of receivables. So the scope of this fee will be very limited. The rest of the fees were maintained at about the level envisaged by the original project. Some adjustments are based on the comments of practitioners, such as proposing a higher amount for correspondence, for example. Indeed, there have been such comments that today correspondence costs have increased significantly and there is a basis for raising charges in this respect. I would like to point out in advance of the role of the club's representative, who will present an assessment of the project on behalf of the Law and Justice, that there will also be amendments which are going in such a way as to also introduce an additional fee for recording activities in the field. We impose an obligation on bailiffs in this respect, but at the same time we do not guarantee funding and this is a bow towards bailiffs who indicated that they would involve very costly technical treatments to meet these requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would very much like to ask the High House to accept the draft presented in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u56	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the Government's draft bill on the costs of bailiffs, seym prints No. 1582 and 2030. The project shall set out the amount of the bail-in costs, the rules for carrying them and the procedure for dealing with those costs. Until now, the bail-in costs have been regulated by the system law on bailiffs and executions of 1997, and I would like to remind you that they were already regulated by the regulations of the Minister of Justice. The development of the new law calls for transparent rules for the financing of the enforcement system and for arrangements to motivate debtors to voluntarily repay the commitments identified by enforcement titles. The bail-in costs consist of the bailiff's expenses and the bail-out fees. The expenditures are among others. experts' and translators' fees, adverts' costs, specialist transport costs, travel costs outside the town, which is the seat of the chamber firm, charges for persons appointed under separate rules to participate in operations, costs of obtaining documents or information necessary for the conduct of proceedings, costs of delivery of correspondence, except for the costs of service to the parties of the notice of initiation of execution, safeguard proceedings or proceedings for the execution of a European order for security in the bank account, costs for the operation of the bailiff outside the chamber, costs for the transfer of funds by post or abroad, costs of payment of the court fee due on the application for entry in the perpetual register. The bailiff shall have the right to advance expenditure. If the bailiff chosen by the creditor undertakes activities outside the bailiff's jurisdiction, expenses in the form of allowances granted to the bailiff and to persons employed in and participating in the bailiff's chambers, the costs of arrival of the bailiff and those persons and the costs of the specialised equipment shall be borne by the creditor even if he is entitled to an exemption from the bailiff's costs. These expenses shall not be included in the costs charged to the debtor. The bail-in fees shall include enforcement fees for the execution of enforcement proceedings, the execution of the security of the claim or the European Account Preservation Order and fees for other proceedings or other actions. The bailiff only collects or collects bail-in fees in the cases specified in the Act. The bail-in fees are either relative or fixed. The enforcement fee for the execution of cash benefits shall be collected by the bailiff together with the enforcement of the benefit in proportion to the value of the enforced benefit. The payment of the fee shall not be subject to a decision. The calculation of the comparative fee shall be based on the value of the benefit. The comparative fees in the case must not be less than PLN 150 and higher than PLN 50 000. zł. Enforcement fees for cash benefit enforcement cases are 10% the value of the enforced benefit. I wanted to stress here the principle of this law, i.e. the motivation of the debtor to pay the debt voluntarily. If, within one month of the date of delivery of the notice of initiation of execution, the debtor pays all or part of the benefits to the bailiff or to his bank account, the bailiff shall charge him a relative fee of 3%. , not 10% that is in favour of the debtor. And where the amount paid to the creditor by the debtor does not constitute an enforceable benefit if the debtor fulfils the benefit within one month in the hands of the bailiff or in his account or directly to the creditor, then what is the charge? The fee is then 150 PLN. If the benefit was enforced only as a result of the enforcement of the claim, bank account, salary for work or social security benefits after the end of the month, there is a minimum fee of PLN 200. Enforcement fees for enforcement of non-monetary benefits are mostly fixed fees, e.g. the application for execution for the issue of movable goods amounts to PLN 400. The fixed fees on the application for possession of immovable property intended to satisfy the debtor's housing needs or to empty the premises or premises intended to satisfy such needs shall be PLN 1500 regardless of the number of dwellings. And so far it was simply from each chamber and often the debtor moved out voluntarily, and the bailiff set such a height. It was sometimes even several thousand zlotys. The total fee in these cases shall not exceed 30 000. zł. Of course, there is also an exemption from commercial costs granted to the parties under the law and granted in exploratory proceedings. This extends to enforcement proceedings. Notwithstanding this, a person who does not benefit from such exemption or is not able to bear the necessary expenses or fees to be paid by the bailiff may apply to the district court for exemption from all or part of those costs. And here the rules on judicial costs in civil matters apply accordingly. This is the law of 28 July 2005. In the event of an exemption, the district court at which the bailiff operates shall pay temporarily to the bailiff, at his request, the sums corresponding to the amount of expenses and the fees on which the bailiff's action depends. Provisions concerning the reduction of the enforcement fee for the execution of cash benefits are also important. The debtor may make such a request if the special circumstances so warrant: a condition relating to the work of the bailiff, but also to the debtor's property situation and the amount of his income. The draft of this law contains six amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, among others. specifies that the application for entry in the perpetual book submitted by the head of the tax office shall be subject to a fee. This is an exception to the principle that the State Treasury is not charged. There are also amendments to the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, which are very important, because they specify fixed fees in the complaint for the actions of the bailiff - PLN 50, in the complaint for refusal to perform a notarial act - PLN 100, in the execution by the court of execution of an act which another person cannot perform for the debtor - that is, in accordance with Article. 1050 or 1051 Civil Procedure Code. And there is, of course. also a transitional provision. With regard to proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, the existing provisions shall apply with two exceptions: if the creditor has not carried out the necessary action to continue the proceedings within 6 months or has not requested a suspended procedure. The implementing provisions adopted pursuant to the previous law shall remain in force until the date of entry into force of the implementing provisions pursuant to this Law. But here, High Izbo, I also want to make six amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. They relate to the flat-rate costs of consolidating activities outside the law firm and storing image and sound recording, provided that the creditor requested that the action be maintained. The bailiff, who takes steps outside the office and keeps these activities going, can also charge a fee of PLN 50 regardless of the number of operations, the volume of the data recorded in the act. The next two amendments concern a reduced fee which cannot be less than PLN 200 - that is, of course, at the request of the debtor - and a new date for the entry into force of the Act: as of 1 January 2019. I propose these amendments to the Marshal and request that the High House support the entire draft and these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u58	Thank you, thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed bill on bailiffs' costs is actually completely, I would say, consistent and dependent on the previous law we were talking about, the bailiffs, because some of the rules are also presented in that law. Well, you have announced here, the government has announced that these laws are to create a coherent system of bail-outs. On the other hand, on the financial issue of this system, because first of all I wanted to address it, there are various doubts about the consistency of this system. On the one hand, the bailiffs are subject to various additional obligations, such as filming bailiff activities, even additional reporting obligations, limited the possibility of transferring some work to assesors, because the scope of the work they can carry out is smaller and at the same time the revenues of the bailiffs are subject to various additional charges. As regards the harmonised levy, which has been harmonised at 10% , it was the Minister himself who said that so far the average charge of these 8% and 15% was 12% So we have here undoubtedly a reduction in this revenue. It turned out that the bailiffs had to pay VAT on their gross income. That's another load that's falling on them. Now these charges are relative. So far they had their minimum and their maximum, which were related to the average wage. The minimum was the average wage, and the maximum was 30 average wages, which was linked to the increase in average labour, it was somehow indexed. Now you are introducing quota charges at about half the current levels and without such indexation. So this is another reduction. In fact, it may lead to the fact that the turnover of the whole, so to speak, industry is going to fall. In my opinion, the most debatable thing that has been raised many times here is what this previous law brings, namely this racket for the state, reaching up to 40%. fees collected. I understand that this is about some kind of control, so it's not just a public servant by name, so some part of the fee has to be paid, but it could be 1%. About all the fees. It would provide control, and a certain image of how much you pay. On the other hand, the investigation up to 40% Indeed, as the honourable Member has said here, with a reduction in the number of cases carried out, it is important to reduce the activity of large firms, but they do have a lot of issues. These big firms may not be that many, but they run tens of thousands of cases. Maybe you need some distraction, maybe you need to open up more access to the profession, so it's easier to become a bailiff, so there's no objection, that these bailiffs somehow, I don't know, evenly distribute in the country, so that maybe it's easier to access this profession. I agree: more competition, more bailiffs, easier access to the profession, of course with some supervision and some control. At the same time, such a hit on large firms, which conduct the most cases as to whether they are dealing with the highest quality burden, may, however, have a significant impact on the efficiency of enforcement of claims, and thus also on the efficiency of economic turnover, on trust in business, on the legal protection of judgments and legal protection of creditors who have obtained such judgments. On the other hand, I absolutely share all the doubts that have been raised that this fee to the State, the 40% which you are downloading, that this is really not justified. This could be a symbolic 1-percent fee, not 40%, which makes you pay, and is not beneficial to creditors, to debtors, or to bailiffs. It's just some state racket, you don't know why or why. Next thing you know, will the state's income increase because of this? If the firms have less turnover, if they release part of the employees, even if the number of bailiffs doesn't decrease, because maybe there will actually be some shifts, there will be fewer assesasors, more filmmakers, and maybe there will be more bailiffs, because assesons will become bailiffs faster... After all, let us remember that the bailiffs pay PIT, pay insurance premiums, so they are already charged with various state contributions. If their turnover falls, the revenue of the public finance system may also fall. There are estimates, not opinions, but estimates presented by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which you call opinions. Those aren't opinions. These are calculations based on specific accounting data, on specific figures and from them actually quite a negative picture emerges. According to these calculations, turnover can fall from PLN 1.5 billion to PLN 770 million. This would mean, even with this racket for the State Treasury, that the gross income of the State Treasury after the addition of VAT revenue, from PIT, of insurance charges may also decrease in total. So the productivity of this sector will drop and its income may also fall. These are very important dangers and I do not know whether the amendments you are proposing here will solve this problem. I don't think they're gonna solve it, because this racket still stays, he's not touched at all. So that we will still be discussing this at the committee meeting, but at the moment we cannot declare how we will vote on it, because it depends on the outcome of these discussions. Now I cannot declare this because this law, together with the previous law on financial solutions, carries a very high risk that this important institution for the enforcement of claims and the enforcement of judgments will be seriously weakened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u60	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, it is my honor to present our position or to continue this position. I said, Mr Buda, that the order of recognition of these laws is wrong, should be reversed, because in the wake of the withdrawal of these commissions, i.e. back to the old type, the current law, if the bailiff were to charge these 40% and did not bring it to the Treasury, it would automatically have more influence, and thus could change, as we consistently propose, also in the amendments that are now being tabled, individual fees. What is the economic justification of such a situation: the bailiff has a enforcement title of 100,000, executed 50,000. And what about another 50 doesn't do anything, the creditor made a deal with the debtor and returned it to him? The bailiff hasn't done anything, and he's taking 10% of it. Do you think this is socially fair? Because I don't think it is. One sentence to Mr Święcicki and to Minister Warchoł as well. It was Minister Warchoł who said that there are extreme views of the opposition. Well, yeah, they're extreme, because I said at first that there was some kind of quiet agreement in this case. And the fact that the bailiffs were walking around all the clubs is well known to us. Mr Święcicki is concerned about the existence of bailiffs here, and I am concerned about the existence of debtors and creditors, because consequently, if the debtor does not pay back, then - I repeat a hundredth time - the creditor will not receive the money. That's the finale. The best evidence will be that I provide some data, maybe it will be more transparent. In 2016, we had 1570 law firms, which employed 13 thousand. persons. The execution titles were 4 million 400, 21.3% enforced cases, including executions of cash benefits accounted for 94%. So that's why I'm asking. Well, there are incompetent lawyers, there are incompetent lawyers, they have no clients, they have to close law firms. If there are incompetent bailiffs, they'll have to close, too. Well, that's market law. What, on the other hand, concerns me personally? 'Cause this is where you were questioning the bailiffs' wages, and I brought it up. This is the data from your study, the Ministry. Average income in 2015 536 thousand, 8 bailiffs showed losses in amounts between 4500 and 147 thousand. Me, for example. I would personally check out these bailiffs and see if they were done, for example. investments which caused these losses to be temporary, because e.g. The bailiff's office was being built. Our amendments are moving in a different direction. You say you're going towards the debtor. What's going on? In the direction of the debtor, Minister, if he doesn't pay back within 30 days? If he pays back within 30 days, he has to pay 3%, after 30 days, he has to pay 10%. I don't really understand where this 3% comes from. When I normally bring money to the bailiff, I pay him, he takes 3% for it. Tell me what the reason is. One of our first amendments therefore aims to reduce this amount. We also want to lead to the situation that the fees on the amounts will not be charged at all - I say - in the case of cash benefits, in a situation where the bailiff has done nothing and the creditor has made a deal with the debtor. Hence is our proposal from the beginning - which I am lacking in this law - concerning mediation proceedings. The bailiff could be a mediator by issuing orders at the bailout stage. So I, as a debtor, go directly to the bailiff, he turns to the debtor, if the debtor gets along, they set a repayment plan, the case doesn't go to court at all, it has the power of the executive title. We relieve the courts and do business, shorten the course. If the debtor doesn't agree, then he has to go to court, that's fine. But I suspect there would be a lot of things. The month you're proposing is really for someone who forgot to pay a road ticket or forgot to pay some small expenses. But I want to point out one more thing because we're not talking about it at all. The debt, which is then charged at the end of the debtor himself, also consists of the costs of legal proceedings and then enforcement proceedings. This judicial procedure is also very expensive under Polish conditions. Then we move on to the execution procedure and here again: if the debtor starts using attorneys, it all starts quilting up. I'll give you an example. I have the title of execution of a person who owed 1,200 zlotys, interest amounted to 400 zlotys. Following judicial and enforcement proceedings, the total amount of this commitment amounted to 3.5 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, have mercy on those people who have fallen into debt, small debts in general, for reasons that somebody lost their job, that someone didn't pay for the apartment because they got sick because there were other reasons. These people should be treated differently than those who cheat professionally. Let me put it this way: a smart entrepreneur will declare bankruptcy and goodbye, there is no debt, while in the case of a natural person you can start chasing. But I'm telling you, how many companies are there? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, but how many companies fall, Mr, no one pays their debts, etc.? Let me give you a fresh example. I owe you one, even it was a company, Jamber. She made a debt, double-booking, 30 million. The guy got 5.5 years in prison in 2009 and he's not in jail to this day. He's not in jail because for what? Of course, who was handling the case, Mr Buda? He was running the same prosecutor who was incriminating me, and I was chasing him for killing a man, you know. He's still working at the D.A.'s office. The intervention at the Ministry of Justice was a thousand, still doing the same crap at the D.A.'s office and everything's okay. Everything's okay. We have a new D.A.'s office, a new state, and you're telling me I was a defendant. Yeah, I was because I was chasing a prosecutor who killed a drunken man. He's got a conviction, he's been working, he's working, and he's still gonna be working at the D.A.'s office, protected by you. That's what it looks like, unfortunately. Yesterday I heard - I don't know if it's true, I'd like to hear the answer about it, whether it's true - that one of the prosecutors who was after Amber Gold went to the Ministry of Justice. [[No, the State's Attorney's Office.]] Or the State's Attorney's Office. So what's it like right now? What do you mean, renewal? Renewing what? The old one. So, High Izbo, Minister, we, as a consequence, do not charge this money so that it is not a loan shark, because it is unethical and you must agree with it. The bailiff pays the income tax, the bailiff pays the VAT and therefore simply like any trader pays the fees. And just because he has the status of a public servant, we start to draw him money that is finally being transferred - and don't convince this room that it's not being transferred - to a debtor and a creditor, because the greater the liability he has, the less the creditor gets. And that is proof, also from your study, that 94% of the cases are cash benefits cases, Minister. Let us convince you that this bill can still be fixed. Hence, in general, 14 amendments have been tabled by us, which are valid, but only when the article is deleted. 149 and 150. If they are not deleted, then in fact the reduction of the fees we propose could lead, Mr Święcicki said, to problems, especially in the case of these smaller chamber firms. But I will not agree in any case with the fact that the bailiffs are threatened with liquidation, as Mr Święcicki said, because, as I said, the bailiffs' earnings were very good even in 2015. There's one more question, Minister. Well, the project is about 2.5 or 5,000. cases within the framework of one appeal. What about the bailiff's present affairs? E.g. Warsaw bailiff has 1 million cases. Is he gonna have to separate them or are they gonna stay? How do you plan on doing this? It's important, too. Incidentally, it was such a year that the Warsaw bailiff had 250,000. a month, and we are still worried, Mr Święcicki, about the bailiffs. Let's worry about the creditors so that the debtor can pay them off. [[Applause]] The bailiffs will be fine. Thank you. If these amendments do not come in, unfortunately we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the club's position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft bill on bail-out costs, print no. 2030. I see there's a heated discussion here about the rules, who the clubs prefer. Well, certainly the Posel Club The modern one is in favour of an efficient enforcement process which takes into account both the interests of the creditor, the debtor and the bailiff. An efficient enforcement process without an efficient enforcement authority will certainly not be possible. Therefore, only the concern of the Poselski Club Modern for an efficient enforcement process, which will lead to a smooth enforcement of judgments and thus to proper economic turnover, not only of economic turnover, but also of the correct resolution of individual individual creditors. The draft law on the costs of proceedings conducted by bailiffs proposes that the bailiff should apply a enforcement fee, not so far two rates - 15% and 8% and one enforcement fee of 10%. We are concerned about the lack of any calculations regarding the appropriateness of the 10% rate , not 11% or 8%. Please note that the enforcement fee of 10% it is charged with a tax on goods and services, including an account in 100, i.e. 18,03 or 18,07 at a rate of 23%. The actual enforcement fee will be 8%. Minister, I would not underestimate those calculations presented by the National Chambers Council, and in fact referred to and submitted those calculations which were accepted by the Ministry of Justice by proposing a rate of 10%. . Because if you submit an impact assessment, the impact assessment should include all these calculations related to the proposed rate. Unfortunately, in the OSR, you did not put forward this type of action, hence our concern, as this will affect the effectiveness of enforcement proceedings, which we are also measuring the number of chamber firms conducted. There is no doubt that the option of reducing enforcement fees where the debtor pays a 3% debt after the enforcement procedure has been initiated , should be considered correct. Here, too, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice announced a number of amendments, including. in order to amend the provisions of the project concerning the need for the creditor to pay a fee of PLN 150 in the case of so-called. mass services. I think that this 150 PLN, if we were to deal with creditors in the form of various types of municipal units, water supply and sewage units, could have an impact on the very important deterioration of their financial situation, and I therefore welcome the proposal for changes in this area. The State has also proposed a very important change, which is to extend the period, to postpone the date of entry into force of this law until 1 January 2019. This was a proposed change, which should also be welcomed. The Modern Posel Club will take a final stand after the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, when these amendments have been tabled at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk gave his position in writing. I invite Mr Ireneus to profit from Free and Solidarny.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft bill on bail-out costs, prints No. 1581 and 2030. The bill is based on the need to develop a new regulation on the operation of bailiffs. For this reason, a separate law includes a range of fees and costs for the operation of bailiffs, which is a good solution because of the need for greater flexibility in shaping the public's burden on fees resulting from the enforcement system. The draft law on commercial costs simplifies the catalogue of enforcement fees and introduces several new solutions, such as a reduction in the enforcement fee in case of voluntary debt repayment. The fundamental objective of the law, the reduction of the bail-in costs on the part of both the debtor and the creditor, is maintained, but with the income of the bailiff at the appropriate level. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, there were some controversy over the level of bail-in fees. In particular, a live discussion led to the setting of a 10% rate of the fee and a relatively high level of additional fixed charges for small-value loans. However, we must bear in mind the need to maintain the stability of the functioning of public enforcement bodies by ensuring adequate income for bailiffs, while balancing the interests of all entities and not burdening either debtors or creditors in an excessive manner. During the discussion, an interesting plan for the introduction of a register of ineffective executions was mentioned. The present law does not contain this solution, but it seems that this could improve the transparency of the enforcement process in the future. On the other hand, the question of the effectiveness of the proposed funding model in the future for the full stability of the functioning of enforcement bodies in the country is an open question. The voices of the bailiffs indicate that part of the bailiffs may be closed, which will have a negative impact on economic and civil trade due to the lack of debt enforcement. On the other hand, there are examples of excessive burden on debtors leading to their total insolvency and thus also to harm creditors who will never recover their debt. First of all, it should be noted that bailiffs are designated as public officials in the draft law and act as public authorities on behalf of the State by executing judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland. The flexibility of solutions should be taken into account in specific issues. It goes on for example. That the bailiff will only be able to grant a lawyer a minimum wage. In fact, that means half the bar rate on a given type of case. The direction of the changes should be appreciated and it should be noted that both the maximum fees and the minimum charges have been reduced in the draft law. We should particularly seek to improve the enforcement process. It must be borne in mind that the bailiff is an institution of civil law, and this is not, colloquially speaking, a person who would be involved in stripping, leading to the collapse of debtors or damage to creditors. It is a person who acts without taking into account the motivation of the debtor or the fault of the debtor, because it was already at an earlier stage of court proceedings that judged the independent court and decided so in the judgment given. Therefore, it is wrong to oppose the interest of the creditor and the debtor to the interests of the bailiff in terms of conflict. It is about ensuring the safety of the trading and efficiency of the enforcement process. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government's draft bill on bail-out costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u66	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My parliamentary inquiry concerns the search for the debtor's assets by the bailiff on behalf of the creditor. Here, it is important to mention in the article. 44: the fixed fee on the creditor's application to seek the debtor's assets referred to in the relevant article of the Law of 17 November 1964. The Code of Civil Procedure shall be PLN 100. And here's the question of who's gonna charge this fee, who's gonna collect it. Will this fee be included in the costs of enforcement proceedings, or will it be included in the costs charged to the debtor? Although this is not a large fee, but nevertheless an important point, Article. 44. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In my opinion, it is very good that the Sejm is dealing with the regulation of bail-in costs in the new bill, because the current law due to many changes, and also because some issues were regulated by regulations, has just become illegible and difficult to use. In my question, I would like to draw attention to the transparency of the accounts in terms of advance payments. Undoubtedly, advances should be settled within one month of the expenditure for which they have been incurred, it is an absolutely correct regulation, as is the case, that if no action has been taken, the advance should be settled within three months. A novelty is the proposal to make the bailiff's obligation to inform about the current state of use of advances in each letter addressed to the parties. And I wanted to ask the government a question about that. In my experience as a Member, I know that many people, especially those who have problems with the use of the law in a difficult case, have problems with establishing the level of debt. Wouldn't it be better to set a deadline, e.g. every six months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards writing or directing letters concerning the balance of advances and the level of debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u70	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll go straight to the questions. With regard to Mr Święcicki's question, the quota fees, of course, are lower and without indexation. On the other hand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason for the bailiff - as has been the case so far - to charge 120,000 for the hospital account. zł. It is simply unjustified from an axiological and economic point of view. It's $120,000. zł for taking the hospital account, where the money is certain, public money. That is why we reduce this and introduce quota charges, which is clearer and more transparent, transparent. And this is not a state racket, Mr. President. This is 40% of the fee and over PLN 2 million of turnover. It's not a racket, it's an element of ordering the system. And why 10%? ? The fee is clear, the fee is easy to count. The State allows in this case - please pay attention to this, I have mentioned this earlier - to lend part of its empire to public officers, which are bailiffs. From what he said, it seemed to me that these bailiffs were, in a sense, businessmen. As far as profit is concerned, they are businessmen, and as far as the various privileges and powers are concerned, public officials. As far as their interests are concerned, they are protected under the umbrella of the State, but when it comes to their various obligations, they should be treated absolutely market-oriented at this point. Nothing like that, absolutely not. In this case, We talk systematically about businessmen, not public officials. As far as VAT is concerned, the previous government, you have introduced this interpretation by making bailiffs liable for VAT. It was your interpretation that led to what you mentioned, that this is another supposedly taking money from bailiffs that they deserve. So that this is in no way a system designed by us, it was not us who introduced this interpretation. I say: it is still from the state of government. Mr Jachnik then pointed out a fee of 3%. This 3-percent fee, sir, is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court P 3/14. It would be extremely demoralizing if executions were undertaken without the possibility of voluntary payment to the bailiff's hands. We absolutely award voluntary payment of these fees, situations such as that the debtor will in some way reflect and pay himself. If this is not the case, then the State will enter the action. Then we should draw attention to a very important issue. So far, the bailiffs have taken 15%... In situations where the bailiffs were given a voluntary fee, they used to take 15% . So that here this reduction is absolutely necessary. [[But not always.]] Not always, Mr President, but we are talking about pathological cases which the system should prevent, what will happen. Then I would like to draw attention to the earnings of the bailiffs, which you also mentioned here. As part of the appeal, the bailiff can, of course, accept up to 5,000. cases, but only such a bailiff whose efficiency is above 35%. There will be no new cases beyond this limit, even if this would result from the choice of the creditor. The limit is necessary, the limit is intended to compensate for the huge disparities that have taken place so far, and is established in the name of elementary justice, so that there are no equals and equals, which are often at the expense of young bailiffs, which are made rich by taking on an enormous amount of not the most difficult things, Mr. I would say that very often these cases are the simplest, the simplest, and because of the huge number they have provided so far quite a lot of income. The last two questions. Mr Pampuch drew attention to an efficient enforcement process. Yes, that is absolutely our goal, sir. We fully agree that an efficient enforcement process is a process that is to be ensured as a result of the implementation of this law, not as a result of some ideas - the words that fell here from Mr Jachnik's mouth - concerning a half reduction, for example. enforcement fee. Such ideas are indeed a threat to this system. At the moment, we already have a system that is actually well balanced, balanced, calculated in such a way as to prevent abuse on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure effective execution. One last question. Mrs Czernow drew attention to the settlement of advances. Madame, the computer system at the disposal of the bailiffs fully complies with this requirement. The bailiffs have an automated computer system. If you expect more information, I will be happy to reply in writing, I will describe the details of the system, how it works, how it works and how it looks in practice. [[Applause]] [[I'll have that in writing, please.]] Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u72	Thank you, Minister. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister mostly referred to these questions, and I will only refer to a few such fundamental questions. Mr Święcicki pointed out that the turnover of the industry could fall. Indeed, we would like to see the mass-based debt trading industry really to be limited, because if we have a situation today, for example. it does not favour anyone: neither the debtor nor the bailiff - because he often takes action and so far has not received any remuneration for his unsuccessful actions. So if these laws, for example, pointing to the possibility of charging a fee in an unsuccessful execution of these mass claims, lead to a reduction of these types of cases, then you should be happy about it, because there will be more time and involvement of bailiffs in human affairs: in alimony cases, in cases in which the entrepreneur has not been paid for construction work. I hope that this will be the main concern of the bailiffs. The liquidation of the firm, the fear of liquidation, has led to many statements here. You can quote statistics. In 2017, we were dealing with the liquidation of about 80 law firms, but only in case 18 were given economic considerations as one of several reasons, while the rest were disciplinary proceedings, retirement and many other reasons. There is no such phenomenon as the mass bailout due to the formation of charges at the wrong level. One more thing has to be added: at the same time 100 law firms were created. There would be much more if it were not for the fact that today the bailiff's government has negative opinions on every new bailiff, every new bailiff's area. Very right, and under these words I sign with two hands, are the words of Mr Profit, which indicated that one cannot oppose both and the other and indicate that there is a terrible dispute between the creditor and the debtor. Of course, the interests of the creditor and the debtor are contradictory, but they cannot be confronted, one group cannot be set against another, and that is how it was done today. Some strongly advocated rights for creditors, others for debtors only. These rights must be balanced. One important thing led us to work on this law, I will repeat this once again, ladies and gentlemen: someone who has fallen into a spiral of debt, just because he has a debt, cannot be deprived of his civil rights and, above all, respect and proper treatment. This was what we had in mind when we introduced a number of provisions in this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u74	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is twin-like to the question asked for the previous project - the bill on bailiffs. I asked about the consequences of the liquidation of bailiffs, but this time I want to ask about the concern about the possible consequence in the form of relatively fast-growing debt collection companies, often focused on quick profit, with different associations, unfortunately not always positive. Will the operation of debt collection companies, as a result, not create a situation in which creditors will somehow suffer? But will the rights of debtors be respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft bill on bail-out costs (prints No 1581 and 2030). The aim of the proposed law is to introduce transparent rules for the financing of the judicial enforcement system and arrangements to motivate debtors to voluntarily repay the obligations identified by enforcement titles. The project also sets out the amount of the bail-in costs and the rules for carrying them, as well as the procedure for dealing with them. According to the project, the bail-in costs include the expenses of the bailiff in the course of the proceedings and the fees of the bailiffs. These will include enforcement fees and fees for other proceedings or other actions. It is essentially about enforcement procedures and other proceedings conducted by the bailiff, e.g. for the purpose of drawing up an inventory, as well as other activities commissioned by the bailiff, which are not executional activities, e.g. service of letters. This means that the traditional allocation of costs into fees and expenses has been maintained. It is maintained that the final provision on the costs due to the bailiff is enforceable without a declaration of enforceability. However, the new solution is to indicate that no enforcement fee will be charged for the execution of bail-in costs. This will eliminate situations where the provisions relating to the costs due were the basis for the initiation of separate enforcement proceedings for an additional fee and before a different bailiff than the one which issued the order. The draft law states that, as so far, the bailiff must be reimbursed in the course of the proceedings or in the course of other activities specified in the law. Therefore, a closed catalogue of expenditure incurred by the bailiff has been indicated. They'll be in it, for example. the costs of obtaining the documents or information necessary for the conduct of the proceedings and the delivery of correspondence, with the exception of, inter alia, the cost of service to the parties to the notice of initiation of the execution. The new solution is to recognise that expenditure does not constitute costs related to the transfer of funds, except for postal transfers and costs related to the transfer of funds abroad. Other expenditure related to the transfer of funds will be costs of the commercial operation and will not be charged to the parties to the proceedings. This means reducing the burden on the parties on enforcement costs. For the same purpose, the amount of the advance on the costs related to the delivery of correspondence in the case was limited to PLN 60. If expenditure for this purpose is higher, it can be deducted from the debtor. The draft law regulates the principle of the creditor's payment of advances on expenditure relating to activities outside the jurisdiction of the bailiff chosen by the creditor. The rules governing the collection by the bailiff of advances on expenditure incurred by him have also been laid down. An important novelty is the obligation of the bailiff to inform the parties of the current balance of advances in each letter addressed to them. A new solution is also the introduction of rules on the remuneration of the guardian established by the court. The project takes into account the current principle that in proceedings other than the execution of cash benefits, e.g. in cases for the execution of non-monetary benefits or for the execution of a security for the claim, the bailiff shall make the action subject to the payment of the creditor's fee. A new principle is to determine the amount of minimum, maximum and fixed charges in a quota manner, rather than in relation to the level of remuneration in the national economy, as is currently the case. There is no reasonable basis for the fees to rise with the increase in wages in the economy. The new solution will ensure the stability and predictability of the costs of execution during its duration. In order to increase the transparency of the bailiff's activities, it was proposed that he should settle the fees levied at least once a year. At the same time, the amount of enforcement fees has been rationalised by indicating that the minimum fee is PLN 100 and the maximum amount must not exceed PLN 50 000. zł. This is a significant sum and therefore the one-off fee of the bailiff should not be higher than that amount. The project also presents solutions for enforcement fees in cash benefit enforcement cases. It has been established that, as a general rule, the enforcement fee has a fixed amount of 10% the enforcement of the claim. This solution means eliminating two current rates: basic - 15% and reduced - 8%. The rates on the debtor's payments have also been amended, taking into account the principle that the amount of the fee is to depend on the actual work of the bailiff and the attitude of the debtor, which can regulate the benefit voluntarily and immediately. Therefore, if the debtor pays the amount due directly to the bailiff or to his bank account within 14 days of the date of his notification of his execution, the bailiff shall charge him a fee of 3% the value of the benefits enforced and if such payment is made after that date and the fee is 5%. A new solution was envisaged for the fee to be levied in the event of redemption of the enforcement procedure at the creditor's request or because of his inaction: in such a case, the creditor will have to pay a fee of 5%. the benefit remaining to be enforced. Currently, in such cases, the enforcement fee shall be charged to the debtor. After the changes, the debtor will bear this fee only if the creditor demonstrates that the termination of the proceedings was due to the fact that, after the initiation of the procedure, the debtor has fulfilled the benefit or has concluded an agreement with the creditor on the manner or date of its fulfilment. The principle has been introduced that, in the event of non-indebtedness, the bailiff will be able to charge a fee of 10% in the form of a non-indebted person. the benefits enforced. This should eliminate situations where creditors do not exercise due diligence when characterising the debtor, e.g. indicate the incorrect address and thus lead enforcement actions against third parties. This solution should also limit cases where the creditor refers to the bailiff an application for execution, despite the prior fulfilment of the debtor's provision. It was assumed that, in the case of a request for the execution of a money claim security and a European bank account security order, the principle that the fee is payable by the creditor at the stage of its submission would be maintained. This fee will increase from 2% to 5%. As regards other charges - for activities other than execution - a fixed fee of PLN 400 is provided, e.g. for the execution by the bailiff of the order to secure the inheritance and to draw up an inventory. To date, the inventory fee has been set for the number of hours the bailiff has worked, which has not been an incentive to carry out the proceedings properly. An important change made to the draft during the committee's work is the amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the proposed law on costs, according to which the final fee will not be charged to natural persons in receipt of employee or compensation claims, to local government units, and - which is crucial - where enforcement proceedings have been initiated before the expiry of 2 years following the establishment of the enforcement title. High Izbo! We do not question the need for a separate bill on the costs of bailiffs, especially in view of the simultaneous preparation of a separate bill regulating the system and the rules governing the pursuit of the profession of bailiff. The collection and ordering of the matter covered by the project should be approved, including the consideration of issues which need to be regulated in connection with enforcement practice. The draft law on bail-out costs rationalises enforcement fees. The current profitability of bailiffs remains uneven with earnings in other legal professions, as well as with the status of bailiff as a public officer. Therefore, it is necessary to rationalise the enforcement fees that burden debtors and affect the extent to which creditors are satisfied. One element of rationalisation is e.g. preferences for those debtors who, without the use of labour-intensive coercion, fulfil their obligations without delay by paying money to the bailiff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u77	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 24 hours 12 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles (prints 1714 and 2244). I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate bill amending the Act on driving vehicles from print No. 1714, which is included in print No. 2244. Before I go to the committee's recommendation, I would like to stress that the very purpose of amending the law was adopted very well by the members of the committee. The abolition for disabled persons of the practical part of the driving licence test where this examination is not carried out by a vehicle of a voivodship road centre, but by a vehicle requiring adaptation to the type of disease, is a regulation expected by the environment of persons with disabilities. It is proof that the current Parliament wants to improve the working conditions of such people. The Polish state should facilitate, simplify the lives of people who have suffered serious disabilities, relieve them financially. That's what's gonna happen with this project. In the current legal state of a disabled person with a medical certificate stating that he can drive a motor vehicle after adapting it to a type of illness, where the driving of an examination is carried out by the vehicle of that person, the fee is reduced by half - from 140 PLN to 70 PLN, and after the adoption of this law disabled persons by it they will not bear such a fee at all. The Committee on Infrastructure has tabled two substantive amendments, albeit not fundamentally changing this project. These amendments concern the date of entry into force of the Act and the date of appointment by the Minister responsible for the economic affairs of the entity, who will be the entity competent to maintain and update the online database on the training centres of drivers, which they have, inter alia. vehicles adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities. Following a brief but factual discussion held in committee on 6 February, the committee unanimously requests the adoption of this draft law. From this point on, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Infrastructure for a genuinely substantive and substantive discussion. This project is the project that brought the High House together. Each individual's comments and voices were intended to clarify the rules and to create a legal act which would meet expectations and which would not, on the other hand, be challenged in any way by legislators or other persons who control Polish legislation. So that I thank all the Members and repeat that the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u79	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to express my great satisfaction with this presentation, this draft law on driving vehicles. The parliamentary club is strongly in favour of the records that were included in the original printing, of course the Senate project, because there is a source of this project. I just want to say that one of the sources of this submission is the judgment of the Constitutional Court which ruled that the Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 point 1 of the Act on driving vehicles is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, art. 69, and this non-compliance is precisely what this submission consumes. So we're changing the record that's been there so far, which shows that a disabled person pays 50%. when he takes a practical exam, and we bring him to such a situation that he will not pay for carrying out a practical exam at all if this exam takes place in the car of a disabled person. In addition, the Act also establishes an online database of vehicle information referred to in Article. 24 point 2 of the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. These are vehicles for testing people with disabilities. So there will be an online database and a minister responsible for economic affairs will designate from among its subordinate or supervised entities an entity competent to maintain and update an online database on where people with disabilities will be able to pass this test, where there are vehicles adapted to pass a practical exam by disabled persons. The resources for maintaining this base will also be provided by the state budget. So everything that was a good intention, which came out of the Senate, was included in the bill. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates further proceding, positive proceding on this project, which meets the needs of people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on driving vehicles contained in print No. 2244 is a very short amendment containing only three articles. It aims to introduce exemptions from the charges of disabled persons, where the practical part of the driving licence test is carried out on vehicles requiring adaptation to the type of disability. In addition, the Act provides for the creation of an online database for these vehicles, which is to be the responsibility of the Ministry at all times, and the Minister determines the directions and ways in which it is to work. I would like to say that this law is expected and the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club fully supports the proposed solutions here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Szramka isn't here. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law presented by the Senate concerns two issues. The first is to abolish for disabled persons the fee for the practical part of the State driving licence test where the test is carried out in a vehicle of a disabled person. The second is the creation of an online database on vehicles adapted to the type of disability, as referred to in Article. 24 point 2 of the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. As regards the first proposal, i.e. the abolition of the fee for the practical examination, I would like to assure you of the continuing support provided by the Modern Parliamentary Club. We believe that people with disabilities should also be supported by creating the conditions for full participation in society, the economy and everyone else. A driving licence is undoubtedly a document that allows people with disabilities to take up mobility on a completely different scale. Thus, the elimination of barriers is absolutely intentional. Especially since vehicle adjustment costs are also significant, which other users of such vehicles do not experience. It should be mentioned here that already today people with disabilities who pass a driving test in their own vehicle bring 50% fees. Thus, this will also not constitute a significant burden for voivodship road traffic centres, as was mentioned during committee meetings. High Izbo! I now move on to the second proposal included in the project. According to the proposed new paragraph. Article 6 The 56th Act on Vehicle Managers will be required to designate from among its subordinate or supervised entities the competent authority to maintain and update an online database of information on vehicles adapted to the type of disability. During the meetings of the committee, information was given that this entity was to be the Industrial Automotive Institute, i.e. an entity that owns its own training centre for drivers and as one of many institutions provides training. This means that there is a market for training - rather small, let us say openly - training for people with disabilities. One of the companies which has so far competed with other companies will run a statutory base with adapted vehicles and training centers. And it is difficult to disagree with the position of other entities which are currently conducting training for disabled people, that such location of the vehicle base, that it is supposed to be run by an institution, which is an active player in the training market, could mean significant market interference and lead to distortions of competition, i.e. as a result, to the exclusion of these entities from the market. Therefore, High Izbo, on behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present one amendment to this bill, because we consider this project to be absolutely correct, necessary and able to act proactively in the case of people with disabilities. However, in order not to lead to such a disruption in this training market, we propose that this unit, which will run the online base, indicate the minister responsible for social security. This is the minister who, in fact, supervises matters related to the needs of people with disabilities. The Minister's supervision also includes PFRON, which finances various types of activities. And there are no obstacles to entrust this technical part to an institution that is not a participant in the training market dedicated to people with disabilities. I therefore make an amendment to the Marshal and ask the High House to support the arguments put forward just now in the club's position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Kotowski is not here. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am replacing Paweł Szramka, who in our Kukiz club15 conducts all projects concerning changes in traffic regulations. I have the permission of Paweł Szramka to announce that the Kukiz club15 is very much in favour of such projects, which also make it easier for people with disabilities to gain the right to drive motor vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u87	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities - the question concerns assistance and grant of funding as regards the costs of obtaining a driving licence - and the program enabling the purchase and installation of equipment for passenger cars for persons with disabilities. The aim of this programme was to eliminate or reduce barriers to the participation of people with disabilities in society, work and access to education. In 2016, for the first programme, the amount reserved to cover those costs of obtaining a category B driving licence was intended for about 400 people with disabilities. As regards the scheme allowing the purchase and installation of tooling for a passenger car, in 2016, the amount allowed for the use of this subsidy for about 650 people. And my questions are whether the amounts allocated to this grant have exhausted the demand of people willing to obtain these subsidies in a given year, or whether, however, the applications were rejected, e.g. due to the lack of adequate financial resources. How many people were in this group who did not receive funding for these specific programmes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u89	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in favour of facilitating access to qualifications and qualifications for disabled people, which facilitate their lives and help them in the labour market. In this country, you have to help them, which is why this law is so important and valid. The number of practical tests for category B driving licences organised by the various voivodship road traffic centres for disabled persons is 0.01% Or even less. For individual persons such exemption from the charge will be very important, but the rental costs of suitable vehicles adapted to the needs of disabled drivers from the training centers are different in different parts of Poland. I would like to ask if it is possible to create a nationwide vehicle base for learning driving and testing adapted to different types of disability and to harmonise the costs of renting them. I hope that this will be considered positively and accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law is absolutely right, there is no doubt, but in my opinion the scope of the amendments to the rules of the Road Traffic Law is insufficient. Here I would like to recommend that the voivodship road centres be required to provide a disabled person with a practical examination adapted to his or her car condition. The examination vehicle for persons with disabilities must be properly tooled, adapted to the disease concerned, individualised. Of course, these are expensive vehicles. And here is the question: Will the government of the Republic of Poland submit proposals for systemic changes, so that the training centers of drivers can buy in some form of rehabilitation or some relief, so to speak, in the form of assistance, financing for the purchase and adaptation of the relevant vehicles from the Government of the Republic of Poland, so that it is even more accessible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u93	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as PFRON financing matters are concerned, I do not want to express myself because I have no competence for this. On the other hand, as regards the amendment on behalf of the Posel Club A modern Member has presented... Here it is signed: Hennig-Kloska, but I understand it was Mr. Suchoń. The government is against this amendment because, during the committee's work, we have established that it is the minister of the economy who is able to manage such a system, and it seems to us that there is no need to provide funds in the budget of the State for such training, because 400 people have benefited from it on a scale which concerns this project in relation to 2017. And during the work of the committee, and during the work on changes in voivodship traffic centres agreed to take over these costs. On the other hand, when it comes to system changes concerning the possible supply of cars during the car exam, the government has not yet planned such investments, because each car for every disability must be adapted in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u95	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle in the case of the Senate's draft law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. This draft adapts the Polish law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 June 2016. The Court ruled that the provisions of the Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles were incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, drawn up in New York on 13 December 2006. Disabled people who want to get a driver's license and use cars on a daily basis have significant difficulties. In the car dealership it is virtually impossible to buy a car adapted to disabled drivers. The adaptation of the vehicle is an additional cost of 10 His values. You can't make changes on your own. Only 50% of the cost of changes is reimbursed by the Disabled Drivers Association. It is therefore necessary to introduce additional reductions. Today, the practical part of the driving licence test for a disabled person is carried out by a vehicle at the disposal of a voivodship road centre. However, as contested by the Constitutional Court, Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (l) above shall not apply, inter alia. for vehicles referred to in the case of a disabled person for which the vehicle is required to be adapted to its type of disease if the test is carried out on the vehicle of that person. A provision shall then apply providing that the practical part of the State driving licence test on application and the cost of the tested person shall be carried out by the designated driving school vehicle. For such an examination the person passing the exam must pay 140 PLN. This Act reduces payment by 50%. It should also be noted here that not all WORDs have vehicles adapted to the needs of people with disabilities. For example, the Western Pomeranian centre does not have any such vehicle, so that the passing of the test must hire such a vehicle from the training centre of drivers. The explanatory memorandum of this law rightly refers to the article. 69 of the Constitution, which provides that persons with disabilities are to be assisted by public authorities, in accordance with the Act, in safeguarding their existence, their adoption and social communication. The State should take effective measures to enable people with disabilities to have personal mobility and as much autonomy as possible. WORD should allow the disabled person to take a practical examination in a vehicle which he himself will provide, but at the same time the State should provide financial assistance to reduce the fee for carrying out the practical part of the State driving licence category B by half. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill in the presented form.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u97	The project concerns the abolition for disabled persons of the practical part of the State driving licence test where the examination is not carried out by a vehicle of a voivodship road centre, but by a vehicle of a disabled person adapted to the type of illness, and the creation of an online database of information on available vehicles for the examination. The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of the bill presented in prints 1714 and 2244.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u98	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers (Prints No 2235 and 2247). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u99	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers. The draft amendment consists of five articles and was first read at the committee meeting on 7 February. Both parliamentarians and representatives of the social side took the floor during the committee meeting. The aim of the amendment is among others. the revision of certain arrangements of the Law of 16 December 2006 on the rules for the management of state property and the laws amended on 1 January 2017 in connection with the reform of the system for the management of state property. And so in the article. The 13th Act on the rules for the management of state property was corrected erroneously by the company PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna Spółka Akcyjna (PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna Spółka Akcyjna). There is also provision for an amendment of the provisions on the requirements to be met by persons designated as a member of the supervisory authority by an entity entitled to exercise rights in shares belonging to the Treasury or a State legal person, including persons selected to the supervisory authority by employees of companies with the State Treasury or public legal persons and the provisions concerning the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and public legal persons. Here I would like to quote a further part of the justification: The project provides that persons selected for the supervisory body by employees will not have to meet the requirements of having a positive opinion of the Board on companies with the participation of State Treasury and public legal persons, higher education or higher education obtained abroad recognised in the Republic of Poland and meet the requirements set out in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) a-j, i.e. have confirmation of the submission of the examination for candidates for members of supervisory boards. In addition, those candidates were not subject to the prohibition to remain in employment with the company and the subsidiary. The draft introduces provisions to extend employee participation in the selection of supervisory authorities of entities which are created as a result of commercialisation and which are currently operating within the structure of the group. The proposed provisions extend the powers of employees to select members of supervisory boards for employees of all subsidiaries of the company arising from commercialisation, which at the same time has the status of parent company. At the meeting of the committee, a request was made to reject the draft law. However, it did not gain acceptance of the majority of the committee members. The meeting introduced amendments, mostly legislative. They were all accepted by the representative of the Ministry of Energy of Minister Tchórzewski. Neither of these amendments was protested by the social side. On behalf of the committee, Mr. Marshal, I ask for the report and further work on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u100	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the Rules of Government Property Management and the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees, prints No 2235 and 2247. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this project is to amend the provisions of two legal acts. The first one is a law on the rules for the management of state property. As part of the changes in the content of this law, the name of the Polish Energy Group contained in the article was improved. 13. This amendment is a correction of the error and there is no doubt about it. The second of the changes in the content of this Act is the implementation of requests made by the social side. They concern statutory requirements for representatives of employees elected to the supervisory authorities of companies of the State Treasury and public legal persons. Currently, these requirements are identical to those for candidates for members of the supervisory body indicated by the State Treasury. After the amendment, candidates selected by employees as members of supervisory boards will be exempt from the requirement to have a positive opinion of the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and public legal persons, the requirement to have a higher education or the requirement to have a confirmation of the examination for candidates for members of supervisory boards. We believe that employees should decide more freely who will represent their interests in the supervisory bodies of the companies in which they are employed. Furthermore, the selection of the appropriate persons should not be restricted by high requirements, justified in the case of representatives of the State Treasury. In our opinion, employees who care about the development of the company and the efficient functioning of the employees of their companies will be able to choose the right people to represent their interests. Further amendments concern the provisions of the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees. These changes aim to extend the participation of employees of commercialisation entities which are currently operating within the structure of the group. The definition of a group, a parent and a subsidiary has been introduced into a provision containing a catalogue of legal definitions. They are identical to the definitions contained in the Accounting Act. The fundamental amendment to the Commercialisation Act concerns the extension of employee rights in the selection of members of supervisory boards to employees of all subsidiaries of the company resulting from commercialisation, which is also a parent company. We believe that this increase in cultivation is intended to protect workers' interests in the changing realities of the functioning of economic operators. The current legal situation, in which the employees of the subsidiaries within the group were not able to participate in the selection of the members of the supervisory authorities of the parent company, placed them in a worse position than the employees of the company in question. This change was also advocated and supported by the social side. We, as Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, agree to this, too. The proposal for transitional provisions contained in the draft law assumes that the companies affected by the above amendments to the Act will have 45 days from its entry into force to make appropriate amendments to their statutes and other internal acts. From this point on, they will be subject to new rules on the participation of employees of subsidiaries in the selection of members of supervisory authorities. We have also noted the need to clarify the content of the new provision contained in the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Commercialisation Act and some employee rights. We therefore propose an appropriate amendment which resolves any doubts as to the powers of the employees of the capital groups, including the dismissal of their representatives from the Supervisory Board. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendment proposed by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, supplemented by the amendment mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u102	Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform. You don't have an MP, do you? This is Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Kukiz15 regarding printing no. 2235, i.e. a parliamentary bill amending the Law on the Principles of the Management of State Property and the Commercialisation Act and some of the cultivations of employees, but there is a problem, because I do not see a representative of the Ministry. Therefore, I have a question as to whether there's going to be a break, Mr. Marshal, or should I read it, because there's actually no one to speak to right now if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u104	The law firm tells me that there is no such obligation, but indeed a political culture would require it. He's supposed to get here, they say a representative of the Ministry is on his way. [[There's an acceleration, Mr. Marshal, and that's the only reason the point was supposed to start at hours. 14.45.]] Then we wait patiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u105	Therefore, I will continue. I hope the video will be enough later. Thus: On 31 January of this year, a draft law on the amendment of the Law on the rules for the management of state property and the Act on commercialization and certain cultivations of workers, print No. 2235 entered the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I was entitled to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to this project. The right to exercise powers in the management of shares with the State Treasury shall be conferred on the President of the Council of Ministers and its subordinate ministers. In general, it is a fundamental document for exercising the powers of the Treasury. These rules regulate the management of the State Treasury's property, license ownership supervision and the creation of internal relations in companies. Another proposed amendment concerns the appointment of a member of the supervisory body in companies with the participation of the State Treasury. The candidates for a member of the supervisory board are required to have a positive opinion of the Board on companies with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. It is known that this refers to the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 and certain rights of employees. Concepts are introduced: parent, subsidiary, capital group. The draft also refers to the definition contained in the Accounting Act of 29 September 1994. In general, the clou of the draft law is the last amendment which concerns changes in the rights of employees of the capital company to act as a member of the supervisory board. The amended regulations shall specify who employees are entitled to choose and dismiss employees' representatives on the Supervisory Board. The group of employees' representatives on the supervisory board will include employees of the parent company and employees of all its subsidiaries. And here's the problem. The problem is that this person's formal preparation is not required by the staff, the requirements have changed here. In general, the appropriate course together with the exam is valid for representatives of the State Treasury on the Supervisory Board. The requirement to complete the course and pass the exam is clearly not applicable to the employee's representative. But here the question arises when there is a person on the board of supervisors who, as an employee, is subject to the board of directors, and in the opposite, so to speak, should supervise this board. This is a problem, which is why it is legally made an exception to the rule, assuming that the position of the crew is more important, which by choosing its representative, the choice of representative from the relationship between a particular employee and the board of directors... This choice of a particular person through most of the crew causes that in the scope of its work on the supervisory board, dealing only with the subject of employees, the representative is here at this moment independent of the management and can control it. Even so, if the board of directors put pressure on the employee, the management itself would break the law and, of course, the good manners. There would be no such concern, and there is no such concern if, at the same time, the representative of the crew is also a representative and a member of the management of the trade union of the workplace concerned - at this point, there is no such problem, because in general the representative is protected by himself. Here, however, we should consider the additional protection of the person sitting on the supervisory board, that such a form... or something should not have been adopted. Recommendation of the Kukiz club15. As there is a very debatable approach to certain solutions in this project, all Kukiz15 will vote in accordance with the free mandant of the Member. And I wish that to the other clubs too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! - I'd like to say. High Izbo! As my colleague noted, there is no representative of the Ministry. It's a good thing your marshal's here. He's got somebody to run the case. Thank you very much, Marshal. On behalf of the Modern One, I would like to present a position on the draft amendment to the Law on the Principles of the Management of State Property and the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees, Parliamentary Printing No. 2235. It's not high school, but it'll make you a hero to be honest. And this bill fits perfectly into the economic and electoral policy of the PiS, which in many respects resembles the Polish People's Republic of Poland. Economically, this means the situation of state-owned companies supremacy and wide-ranging employment through the number of posts created, electorally - it is the creation of new seats in supervisory boards for people whose role will be limited only to seat, but with undying gratitude for the legislator, i.e. for the PiS, for allowing power. Indeed, it cannot be assumed that employees' representatives will be able to participate actively in meetings of councils without knowing the rules governing the functioning of collegial bodies in capital companies. In my opinion, this is done both to the detriment of the participants in the process who are not properly prepared for the role to be played and to the detriment of the employees whose interests they are to defend and the company itself. There is also a duplication of the competences of trade unions - the protection of workers' rights - and members of the supervisory boards in the staff issue, which the legislator in the justification of the proposed changes also assigns protection to workers' interests. The question arises as to how many such entities are to be in the capital group, whether the proposed wording only means an increase in the number of employees to whom the active electoral right is to be exercised, or whether there is an increase in the number of seats for employees in the supervisory boards of the State Treasury companies. On the example of the Polish Armed Group SA, which brings together more than 60 entities in one group - what does this change practically mean? The requirement, in fact, that there are no requirements for education or completion of qualifications, is another electoral bribe, unless the legislator makes provision that the function performed by the employee does not give the same entitlement to receive remuneration for sitting on the board of the company at the same time. How to understand the lack of competence requirements in relation to the provisions of Article. 483 § 2 of the Code of Commercial Companies still in force, as follows: The member of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Liquidator should, in carrying out his duties, pay due care as a result of the professional nature of his business? Are the companies of the Treasury PiS with the domination of uneducated and incompetent arrogants and career-makers such as Mr Misiewicz? I am in favour of involving employees in the company's affairs, also in the form of active participation in collegial bodies, but with the leave of competence requirements. Just as we cannot imagine allowing physical workers to work without proper training and preparation, e.g. in relation to health and safety requirements, we should also not accept sitting for sitting - without being able to define and understand the rules for performing supervisory functions. Therefore, as Modern we will be opposed to introducing such solutions into the economic life of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister is still not here, but we had the opportunity to read the Minister's position at the committee meeting. Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I would like to say that this solution is unacceptable. This is another jump on the cash register, this is another attempt to install, fix your Misiewicz in companies of the State Treasury. I do not understand why the PiS so strives to cast all positions that are possible, their people, why it violates the basic principles that have been applied for many years. And all of a sudden, because the people of PiS aren't prepared to sit in companies, ladies and gentlemen, so it's best to change those rules. In my opinion, it is unacceptable that we will change the law for a given moment. After all, the representative on the supervisory board, who takes the money, manages, co-decides on the estate of the State Treasury, the property of Poles, because it is the estate all of us, should have full knowledge of certain economic processes, management principles. If it is claimed, even in the justification that these are very difficult exams and employees are not able to pass these exams, that is insulting employees. That's it. I don't know if you realize that this is how you insult solid workers. This is our club's view of another fund-raiser, another group of Misiewiczs, on which you want to quickly replace staff, and you don't have prepared people with rights and you want to take shortcuts. The Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats will not support these solutions. We don't do it maliciously. You have to look at some basic minimum knowledge of the principles of functioning, cooperation and management when it comes to serious wealth. If someone is unable to learn about the principles of the management of this property, to adopt these basic principles, how can he be made co-responsible for this? That is why we will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform regarding the draft law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers. This innocent-looking amendment introduces very important provisions concerning candidates selected from among the staff as representatives of the crew on the Supervisory Board. The proposed amendments provide for a reduction in the requirements for these candidates by, above all, abandoning the requirement to have higher education, including from higher education, which is obtained abroad and respected by our country. The requirement to have appropriate powers and to confirm the submission of an examination for candidates for members of supervisory boards has also been waived. In addition, the prohibition on working with a company or subsidiary by a crew candidate has been waived. In this respect, it is important to ask ourselves how this change will affect the quality of the work of the entire supervisory board and whether the person appointed by the crew will fulfil its tasks in controlling the work of the management board, because that is the power of the supervisory board, but also whether it will participate in the process of developing a strategy for the development of companies in one group. The justification for the bill says that we will appoint a crew member to the Supervisory Board, based only on his general knowledge of the company and the trust of the employees themselves, and that, in our opinion, is far too, far too little to be entrusted to such a person as a member of the Supervisory Board. Besides, I don't think such a person will be able to assess the budget of such a company because she doesn't know it, she doesn't even know what the budget is, she can't even talk about supervising the work of the board. Therefore, this is some member who does not know what function he will perform. The state before me said that this person would represent the crew in terms of workers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the role of a member of the team appointed by the trade unions, it does not have to be a member of the supervisory board. A member of the supervisory board assumes full responsibility for the operation of the company, for the quality of its work, for the quality of the application of the law, for the fact that this company will develop, that it will have plans to approve. How is he supposed to approve plans if he doesn't know these plans? He may know about the employment relationship between the employee and the employer. But it can't be on the principle that this member will judge the work of the board. Ladies and gentlemen, this should not have happened and we should not have introduced such procedures. Therefore, the Civic Platform cannot support the proposed amendments and believes that this law must be put in the basket as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u112	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees. According to the reasons given, the proposed law amends the requirements to be met by persons designated as a member of the supervisory authority by an entity entitled to exercise rights from shares belonging to the Treasury or a State legal person, including persons selected to the supervisory authority by employees of companies with the State Treasury or public legal persons, and the provisions concerning the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and public legal persons. Persons selected for the supervisory authority by employees will not have to meet the requirements so far necessary to become a member of the supervisory board. In addition, those candidates were not subject to the prohibition to remain in employment with the company and the subsidiary. The proposal also introduces provisions to extend the participation of employees in the selection of supervisory authorities of entities which are created as a result of commercialisation and which are currently operating within the structure of the group. The proposed provisions extend the powers of staff to select members for supervisory boards to employees of all subsidiaries of the company resulting from commercialisation, which at the same time has the status of parent company. The aim of these changes is to extend the rights of workers, taking into account the structure and links of entities operating within one group and thereby increasing the participation of workers within the group. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the commercialisation process, companies were set up in which, as a result of bargaining with crew and trade union organisations, crew representatives were granted the privilege of representation on supervisory boards. These representatives are elected by the crew in the general election. Their task is above all to defend the interests of the crew and not to allow the conditions established during the commercialisation of the company to deteriorate. These conditions concerning collective agreements, remuneration and other elements were a necessary condition for the consent of the social party to commercialisation. The most important thing in this case is trust in these people on the social side, not their formal competence. It is completely unfounded to claim that these persons may be detrimental to the company as a result of incompetence. It is in the interests of the crew's representatives, apart from the permanent pursuit of their interests, as well as the interests of the company, to take care of this entity's well-being. If the company itself falls, then neither will the crew be needed. It's a logical relationship. Employees identify with their company, with their place of work and in their own interest themselves will ensure that their representative is a person of high competence, although not necessarily confirmed by documents. It is in their interest that it is not a figurine to raise hands, but a person who knows the specifics of the industry and, above all, who has experience in working in this particular company, in this particular workplace, which she is an employee of. Changing the terms of formal requirements for candidates - representatives of the crew to supervisory boards results from the need to guarantee the interests of the social side, the employee party and has been consulted repeatedly by the designers' Members. This is a bow towards the trade union organisations of the various companies and the trade union centres which have called for it. It can also be noted that over the years, these several decades of the Third Republic, we had a number of situations connected with, for example, the sale of companies of the Treasury or the sale of shares in companies of the State Treasury, or simply the privatisation of these companies, and unfortunately there were often abuses, which ended later with the liquidation of these companies, hostile acquisitions, the liquidation of jobs, and the sale at a priceless price. We have these examples, you can multiply them, there are hundreds of them, and even thousands of them. One can quote, for example, the famous program of the universal privatisation of 500 best Polish companies. Where are these companies today? Show me where they are. Most of these companies do not exist, they have been sold for priceless or eliminated, and yet the whole society has participated in this programme by buying out equity certificates. It was a great capital, a great national estate. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Free and Solidarni Members fully [[♪ The bell ♪]] supports the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the risks that the changes contained in this project bring with them, and these are the changes in the requirements for crew representatives in the supervisory authority. ♪ In my family ♪ Wałbrzych, we have this situation. Workplaces of one of the Wałbrzych companies were transferred many years ago with permission, among others. representatives of the crew, employees' representatives on the supervisory board, who have taken such a decision, to WTBS. Unfortunately, as a result, former workers were left in this situation. Firstly, they cannot buy these apartments at the moment, and secondly, the rent of their apartments is many times higher than the rent of the same premises in the same housing estate, only that cooperative ones. When I asked those who felt deceived, and I am not surprised at all, former employees, why their representatives on the supervisory board agreed to this decision, I was told that their representatives did not fully know the consequences of these very decisions and, consequently, after many years of court battles, unfortunately they could not buy out those workers' homes in which they lived for many, many years. Therefore, I ask: Will these changes to the requirements for crew representatives not have similar disastrous consequences in terms of decisions made, e.g. due to lack of preparation and knowledge of issues or awareness of consequences, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What decisions can they make? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u116	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you what the applicants were doing by proposing to abolish the qualification requirements confirmed by an examination of the members of the supervisory boards for the candidates of the crew representatives. The supervisory board is the body controlling the management of the company, the company's finances and its functioning in a broad sense. After all, there is no shortage of people with an education required to perform this responsible role among the crew. Why does this deprive people of the right to do so and give priority to those who are submissive, who agree to all the proposals made by the other members of the Supervisory Board? I wanted to ask what the government would say. Has the government issued an opinion or a position on this project? I think it's a very harmful project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question and a question. Namely, if an employee is chosen by his crew, but is in the management of a trade union, he is of course protected legally - even though he is subordinate to the management board, he is protected - and if he is elected to the supervisory board, he can easily control his management. What if an employee is not in the management of a trade union and is on the supervisory board and is likely to be pressured by the management board as an employee? Does the government plan to create a mechanism to protect such a crew member in the supervisory board in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by a government representative, Minister of Energy Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft submitted by your Members is accepted by the Minister for Energy. Why? Well, the government side, the government, with the involvement of Parliament, decided what powers should be exercised by the members of the supervisory boards. She made this decision not only for her representatives, but also for the representatives who are led by the crew. So the Treasury sets requirements and looks at how its interests will be represented, for which competences, and all these competences have been defined as quite high. On the other hand, the crew is actually obliged, and this is also the result of agreements adopted in previous regulations, to ensure that crew representatives are generally guarded on supervisory boards... They are directed to the supervisory boards - sometimes even, in the case of certain agreements, to the boards - to ensure that the social arrangements made with the commercialisation party are kept, with the privatisation of the company concerned. In this case, if we look at this position, the role of the crew is to choose the person who, as they believe, will be the most intensive in keeping with what a member of this council requires, so that all commitments made to employees are kept. This is actually the result of previous rules that define when there are two, when there are three, and when there is one member of the board of directors on the part of the crew and in which cases there is also a member of the board. This is all based on this basis and on the negotiations that have already been undertaken to keep to the agreement, which will happen in the future if circumstances change, even externally, in a given situation. From this point of view - if the expectations of the social side arise: leave it to us, do not interfere with who we are taking, do not put our leaders, our representatives of artificial barriers, because we look at it differently, we want them to be people who will eventually benefit from the help of experts, but are properly determined and able to stand up for us, are, say, less vulnerable to pressure, etc. - it is right that it is up to the social side to decide which representative, what powers it chooses. So from this point of view, as Minister of Energy, I support the solutions put forward, all the more so because I have my experience, because I have been standing on the other side for years, and I have looked from a different point of view from that of the Treasury. Now I look from the perspective of the Treasury, but I remember how I looked at these matters as a unionist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Kubov's applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that the opposition parliamentarians treat the crew as if they were insane and as if they were going to refer to the supervisory board, as mentioned in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, and I will quote here Mrs Hibner, who said that they could even appoint cuties... Ladies and gentlemen! It's a misunderstanding of the subject, misunderstanding of how much responsibility it is to appoint representatives to the board of directors on behalf of the crew. Many times if it weren't for these people - and there is evidence and there are examples - the fate of the companies of the Treasury would be different. That's one thing. As regards Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's statement from Mr Piotr Misja, as well as the representative of the Polish People's Party, that we are changing the rules to introduce people from the Law and Justice - a greater misunderstanding of this short law yet... I just can't figure out how to say things like that. It's just misunderstanding the subject squared. Mr President, not the people of the PiS, not the position. The crew, the employees will elect their representatives directly. I don't know what's going on, 'cause that wasn't the way it was said. So that I call for, in the case of this law, a really short law, although to read its records. [[Voice from the room: We've met.]] One more question - it is said how it will be, whether the representatives of the crew will have the competence to control whether they have knowledge of the company, it is said that it will be embarrassing and embarrassing that people, workers will be given to the board of directors to control the board. I'd like to ask what it was like in the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL. During the eight years of your reign, during the two term of office, were there people on the board who had no higher education, or were there people who did not have an exam for a member of the board of directors? Were these people sitting or not? The question is straight. So, was there a shame? They couldn't handle it? I'll leave that to you without comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u124	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Water Law Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act (Prints No 2233 and 2265). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the meeting of the Sejm on 8 February this year. the first reading of the government draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing was held, print No 2233. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On 21 February this year. a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was held during which the various articles of this draft law were considered. During a multi-hour debate involving representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba and the social side, several legislative amendments were tabled. The Legislative Bureau has welcomed the amendments tabled. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law attached to the print report No 2265. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u126	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Once again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, print No 2233. As I pointed out at the first reading of this project, the aim of the Act is to align Polish legislation with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 and to increase the efficiency of the national anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. During the preparation of these new provisions, the Committee of Experts' proposal for a regulation was also taken into account. Evaluation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. During the debate on the various articles of the bill, comments were made concerning inter alia. the catalogue of obliged institutions referred to in Article. 2, which corresponds to the list of institutions required by the applicable legislation. The project deprives the status of an institution of obliged entrepreneurs operating auction houses, antique shops, trading in metals or precious stones and sales of commission. National Bank of Poland was also deleted from the list of obliged institutions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The concept of politically exposed persons is defined by enumerating MEPs and senators. This article also defines the concept of virtual currency. The bill covered this concept both so-called. cryptocurrencies as well as centralized virtual currencies. Chapter 3 defines the tasks relating to the Financial Security Committee. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 the tasks of the Chief Inspector in the processing of information have been defined. During the debate, we have listened to a number of comments and, therefore, the Law and Justice Club amends this draft law to the article. 1, 2, 11, 16, 34, 40, 43, 45, 46, 72, 89, 110, 113, 119, 152, 160. That is why I would like to make these amendments to your marshal on behalf of my club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u129	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft anti-money laundering and terrorist financing law. As part of the second reading, in general referring to what took place at the committee's meeting, I can say that during this meeting, no revolutionary changes were made during the process of this law, which is also due to the fact that this law is clearly adapted to international standards, although new elements and new solutions are also emerging in this law. New categories of obliged institutions, new tasks of the Financial Security Committee, mechanisms for national risk assessment, changes in this area, including new obligations of the obliged institutions or new rules of operation of the beneficial owner's central register shall be introduced. The rules on the appointment of the General Financial Information Inspector, the collection of information necessary for the fulfilment of his statutory tasks, as well as the protection of the information collected and procedures have also been improved. The rules on stopping transactions, blocking accounts are also being amended. In fact, it is very important - and this is what we pointed out in the discussion - that these rules should be precise, do not raise concerns about honest entrepreneurs, foundations or associations, because this law actually extends, regulates in detail the institutions and responsibilities in previous, existing rules quite generally outlined. We had doubts as to whether this detail was really needed, but we take it as a good coin. After all, it is an effective fight against money laundering and terrorism. That's the idea we have. But we also point out that this over-detailing of solutions with a closed catalogue of institutions and responsibilities creates a risk that they cannot all be accounted for. It is also important to remember innovation, new forms, new institutions when it comes to financing economic activity, and titles when it comes to flows. Here our doubts aroused For example, the question of defining a virtual currency, because it consequently limits the use of blockchain technology, which today revolutionizes financial flows, financing business and has found recognition and application in many industries, financial, energy and trade, worldwide. These doubts, by the way, have not been resolved. It also raises our concerns about the fact that the law, however, leads to a reduction in civil liberties and deepens citizens' surveillance. That also applies to us. This is worth paying attention to. From such flavors it is e.g. the issue of a specific lex specialis concerning the appointment of an inspector general of financial information, which, first, according to the provisions of the Act, is a secretary or undersecretary of state in the office serving the minister responsible for public finances, but at the same time we add, we create an article in which we define quite detail the criteria that he must fulfil, including an impeccable moral, civic and patriotic attitude. This also raised our concerns, because does this mean that the other ministers, the ministers of state, do not have to meet these conditions, do not have to be patriots, do they not have to show an impeccable moral, civic attitude? However, this is not the end of trouble, because who will define these concepts and how should these criteria be verified? Or, for example, tax arrears resulting from an error from years ago [[♪ The bell ♪]] is sufficient reason to believe that the candidate does not meet the criterion of impeccable citizenship? We do not make amendments to this law because they would not have the chance to accept and treat seriously, although as an example I can give you the issue of 3-month vacatio legis...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u130	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u131	...which we think is too short. All I'm gonna say is that you can dig with a horse, but no pleasure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15. Your envoy isn't here. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! In fact, the law is the implementation of EU law to our national conditions, but as always it is presented in a slightly broader aspect, it goes slightly beyond the scope of the implementing rules. A few things actually raise doubts, and a couple need to be clarified at the stage of further work in the Senate. I'm gonna focus on my own problems. During the committee's work it turned out, however, that it is not so obvious who meets the requirements of the required institution. It is worthwhile, Minister, to lean on this maybe not in the case of this law, but in the case of the other provisions, because we are actually expanding today the catalogue of institutions required to give a concrete, precise interpretation so that it does not pose a problem for those who will then be controlled and who, as a result, should apply this new, extended law. Probably a big problem is the short vacathio legis and the entry into force of the law after 3 months. These are quite serious regulations, which are not only implemented at the level of major corporate centrals, but also have to operate in large corporate institutions downstairs, in branches, with customer service. You don't really leave much time. not only to adapt certain mechanisms, to implement systemic changes, but also to train and adapt the crew, but, in fact, to a large extent, it is up to these people whether the law works on time and whether they are properly prepared to apply it. Given that, as I said, this catalogue of institutions is quite strongly extended to include individuals and institutions, companies that have not been too involved in anti-money laundering so far have not been covered by this law, they are left very little time to implement the new arrangements. In fact, there is the problem of PEP, i.e. people with public positions. The required institutions indicated that the problem was the lack of a base to which they could relate, on the basis of which politically exposed persons should be defined. In some ways this definition remains wide, and the lack of a catalog makes the institutions themselves question whether they will define the catalog of these people equally, all the more so because today we are expanding it strongly. And this is another element that arouses emotions and controversy as to whether this extension of the definition of PEP, this circle of people not only about people who are exposed to political positions, but also about the families of these people will serve to counter abuse, or will serve to surveillance political opponents and their families, because in fact today the services are given a huge weapon through this law, which will allow them to access a number of accounts of people who are not necessarily exposed political positions, but also related persons. A major problem - as the institutions reported at the consultation stage - is the identification of persons using a stolen identity. And here it is worth really thinking about some systemic changes and changes in the digitalisation of state structures and state activities in the fight against money laundering and terrorist prosecutions, precisely so that it is easier to identify people using stolen identity downstairs with customer service. Today, when someone uses a well-made document, employees at the time of service have virtually no tools, and this is just a matter of working on databases, improving them properly, modernising them, so that identity documents after obtaining appropriate consent are available for inspection at least where customer service takes place systematically and not only incidentally. I think it could be done professionally so that we eliminate this risk element. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are such comments as to what it is worth leaning on and what it is worth to improve in the work of the Senate on this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to present on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party a position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on this government bill. Indeed, the project implements EU legislation. Recalling the most important regulations of the project, it is important to stress that it defines the so-called institutions in very detail. The obligation to carry out the duties set out in the Act, their scope, internal supervision, and therefore very, very broadly, is to refer to the subjectivity, so who is subject to it, and to the rules that are to apply. With regard to government administration, the project shall also institutionally define who and to what extent it carries out the tasks resulting from the project. The bodies of financial information on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing will be, whether it is decided that it will be, the Minister responsible for public finances and the General Inspector for Financial Information. The Financial Security Committee will have an opinion and consultative role in this respect. The General Inspector will determine the national risk assessment for money laundering and terrorist financing and then develop a strategy based on this risk assessment, an action plan to reduce this risk. All institutions are obliged to apply financial security measures to their clients to a very, very large extent. The central part of money laundering and terrorist financing, particularly decision-making, is the responsibility of the General Financial Information Inspector, whose competences and responsibilities are also very, very precise in this project. Following a thorough analysis of the government project, the Committee on Public Finance submits to the High House to adopt a proposal with minor substantive changes and a slightly larger number of legislative changes, which were highlighted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. In the course of the discussion, a number of comments were submitted on behalf of the institutions required for the provisions of the draft law which went beyond the scope of the Directive. Some of them, although to a very small extent, have been taken into account, but most of them, unfortunately, were rejected by the majority of the Public Finance Commission when the government accepted the party. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I will make two amendments. One of these concerns the deletion in Article. 11 point 3, which assumes that the general inspector may be a person who presents an impeccable moral, civic and patriotic attitude. This record is generally considered to be such an objective overzealousness. None of the terms used, whether moral, civic or patriotic, can relate to an objective assessment, and each of them will always depend on who, when and on what he will issue this assessment. In addition, other requirements to be met by the general inspector, which are legible and measurable, sufficiently define who can perform this function. Here I will remind you that it may be a person who enjoys full public rights who has not been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally by a public prosecution or a tax offence, who meets the requirements laid down in the provisions on the protection of classified information regarding access to classified information. These are in our assessment sufficient and objective assessments to be carried out, examined and established. The second amendment concerns the vacathio legis, which all of them have been very concerned about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] institutions so called required to take part in the discussion at the meeting. We propose extending the deadline for entry into force from 3 months to 6 months. I'm making amends for your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u136	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Question time is one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, as I said in my basic speech, the proposal sets out in very detail a number of issues relating to anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, while there is an issue that I followed in the committee work, which I would also like to ask here. It concerns the protection of whistleblowers. I must say that this protection has been treated in the bill very lightly. There is, in principle, a provision or reference that this will explain the regulation, that will define the principles of this security, but I must say that in a package of 10 regulations, which are kind of an integral part of this project, I did not find these provisions. Hence my question: How will the safety of those involved in the implementation of this law be guaranteed? Will the way of the regulation not be too weak? And this is a very, very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u138	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We have long talked about people who are exposed to political positions, for which a special mode of action of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act will be applied. So you've shown us: we're gonna monitor you on a special basis, for example. Members, Marshal of the Sejm, Prime Minister, their families, their children, but we will not apply the same procedure to those taking very important, managerial positions connected with multi-billion-dollar contracts, e.g. in relation to the presidents of PGE, PGNiG and others. You do not show this, and a special mode for people who, like a Member, have an impact on the economy, on what you are talking about, i.e. countering, among others. corruption as an extremely important thing... It's not in the bill. We understand that after 2001, after the attacks on the World Trade Center, we need to counter the financing of terrorism, money laundering. But why separate? The General Financial Information Inspector was one of the ministers. You're adding which one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 101st, 102nd or 103rd minister? And last but not least, the date of entry into force of the law. You give yourself 18 months, and you give institutions three months. It's such an equal symmetry for the government. The government can slow down for more money as a reward. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u140	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions for this bill. Firstly, the implementation of the law, and most of the legislation is due to enter into force within 3 months, requires massive expenditure on IT programmes, adjustment systems enabling the entities mentioned in the law to fulfil the obligations imposed. In view of such a short deadline for entry into force, I have a question: Does the government take into account the possibility of shifting this deadline if, for technical reasons, it is not possible to prepare all programmes or systems so that banks can carry out their tasks? That's the first question. The second question concerns the General Data Inspector. I remember exactly how, during the discussion on the 2018 budget, this body, not only this, was treated not very well in relation to its tasks, namely very limited expenditure. In view of the new tasks, does the government envisage an increase in expenditure for the General Data Protection Officer and when would that be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u142	Thank you very much, Member. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. Indeed, it took a very long time to prepare this law to discuss these quite difficult matters with financial institutions, entrepreneurs, a number of obliged institutions whose activities are governed by this law. Let's get to the questions. The first question was asked by Mrs Tokarska. It's about protecting people who report. Indeed, this issue concerns workers, i.e. it is a matter of protecting the data of those who report. This is, as I understand it, art. 80, that is, the informants who report to the general inspector a potential breach of anti-money laundering legislation. And actually in the mouth. 3 it is stated that the Minister responsible for public finances will determine by regulation the manner in which these declarations are handled and stored, as well as information on the actions that may be taken after their notification, with a view to ensuring adequate protection, including the protection of personal data, the person making the notification or the person charged with the infringement. At the same time, what is worth remembering, art. 101 provides that all information which is in the Inspector General's hand shall be made available only at the request of the court or prosecutor where necessary in the course of the proceedings. So the whole system, which is prepared, aims to ensure full protection of the data of persons who report irregularities, report potential crimes, being both informants, so-called. Signalists, as well as, of course, employees of financial institutions or obliged institutions. As regards Mrs Skowronska's question, here we are actually applying the provision in the directive. There are a number of regulations concerning people in exposed positions, i.e. in short, from English, so-called. PEPs These regulations are necessary if we want to implement the directive correctly. Perhaps in some cases it does indeed overly regulate it. Unfortunately, that is the case, and I understand here such voices of reflection or scepticism or the voice of the Member, because indeed in some places this directive overly regulates it. This does not, of course, mean that we have some serious problems here for those performing exposed functions, because, in fact, the whole function included in this directive is rather an obligation to carry out an additional risk analysis by the obliged institutions. So, in fact, when they sign a deposit, deposit or bank account agreement, they have to carry out a risk analysis related precisely to the fact that the person who comes to sign the contract is the PEP. And that's the end of it. There is no separate reporting. It's not like this... [[But if it's necessary, it'll all come out.]] There's no information. This information isn't even addressed to the chief inspector, but it's really the institution's own job... [[Yes.]] ...financial. And that's how we really understand it. Those are the laws of the law. It's a potential risk. Indeed, Madam President is right in the sense that these regulations of the directive may not be quite so, it can be said that they are quite obvious when it concerns, for example, the family of these people. And I understand those doubts. I'm sure it's like this. I am also aware, in contact with representatives of other countries - for example, a representative of the German government points out - that during the work on the next AML directive here you can once again correct these provisions, so there is still a chance that... [[Then talk to me.]] ...this will be corrected. As regards the date of entry into force of the Act - there were such questions - it is indeed the case that in this provision, which is, there is a three-month period. We are aware that the work actually lasted a long time, these talks with financial institutions were a lot, these new responsibilities are a bit, because although most of them are based on previous experience, then of course, as each new law imposes new responsibilities. From these voices we have - of course we have such news - it is like in any such situation there is some complete comfort in connection with this period, but I have the impression and information that the financial institutions were prepared for this, were informed about the entry into force of this bill. She too is delayed, so we hope that she will be implemented correctly at a certain time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Szlachta, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nevertheless, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen very much for their many hours of work. There was a committee meeting for over seven hours. We're under pressure from time. These are all the results of European Union legislation. Although the debate showed that they also affected politicians, i.e. MEPs and senators, here we were part of what was written in the directives. On the other hand, it raised doubts about the amounts to be disclosed. There were also many other questions in the discussion, and we have therefore tabled several amendments, which will be discussed tomorrow at the committee meeting with amendments tabled by the Member representing the Polish People's Party and European Democrats by Mrs Teresa Tokarska. But for this effort, for these many hours of work, I would like to thank you very much. I also thank the Minister with a team of officials who have also answered our questions for many hours. I think that this debate will bring about a good project. We are one of the few countries that has not yet introduced these directives, hence the time pressure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Water Law Act (prints No 2250 and 2276). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Water Law Act. The project, submitted to the Marshal's staff on 5 February and addressed to the first reading on 7 February, is included in print No 2250 and the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - in print No 2276. High Izbo! The Water Law adopted on 20 July 2017 implemented 8 Directives, amended 45 existing laws. The content of these new provisions contained in 13 chapters 574 of the articles on 444 pages applies to a very large number of actors, regulates a very wide range of cases, and the transitional provisions alone are around 50. One of those transitional provisions, Article. Paragraph 545. 1 provides that for matters initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Water Law concerning decisions on environmental conditions issued under the Act of 3 October 2008 on the making available of environmental information, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and decisions before the re-evaluation of environmental impacts, new provisions shall apply. In these new provisions of Water Law, many procedures and procedures are much more friendly and simpler, including among others. introduced as a new water law assessment procedure. However, there are some interpretation doubts in this area. Draft changes to the wording of the Article. Paragraph 545. 1 therefore assumes that proceedings for decisions on environmental conditions and for re-assessment of environmental impacts, carried out under the provisions of the Law of 3 October 2008, initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the new Water Law, are subject to the existing provisions. The exception to this rule is the mouth. 1a a project which requires the application of Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 of Article 2 74. Point 5 of Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 of Article 2 Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2, Article 81. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 90. 1b of the Law of 3 October 2008. Proceedings to which this Article refers. Paragraph 545. 1 concern, first, decisions on the construction permit, decisions on the approval of the construction project and decisions on the renewal of construction works, issued under the Construction Law. That is what the Article refers to. 72. Point 1 (1). As regards the subsequent laws to which the provisions to which the project relates apply, these are decisions on the authorisation of road investments, which are issued on the basis of a road specific. And they are referred to in point 10 of this provision. These are further decisions to allow investments in the field of public service airport. This is point 14 of this provision. The latter are decisions to authorise investment within the meaning of the rules of the flood management. It's an art. 72. Point 1 (18). As regards the project, point 1b provides that Article 1 shall not apply to decisions on environmental conditions and to decisions before which a re-evaluation of the environmental impact is carried out. 428 Water Law Act. The subsequent amendment set out in points 3a to 3d in the newly added points concerns cases initiated and not completed concerning administrative fines referred to in Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 points 2 and 3 of the Environmental Law. These are penalties for failure to comply with the conditions of the water permit granted, i.e. the amount of water to be collected and the quantity and quality of waste water to be discharged. The Environmental Law Act was amended by Article. 493 of the new Water Law and Environmental Law operate the concept of administrative fines. These provisions have been entirely transferred to the new Water Law and they, these provisions, the relevant provisions in the new Water Law, operate with the concept of increased charges. Therefore, the procedure initiated under the Environmental Law cannot be continued and terminated. In addition, the Environmental Law provides for a favourable advantage for the trader, namely the deferral of the penalties referred to in Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 points 2 and 3 as well as credit for these investment penalties, the value of the investments that the entrepreneur started to implement so that he could meet the requirements of the Act and not pay further penalties. The provisions in the draft will allow, after their adoption, firstly, to avoid losses to the state budget due to unanswered penalties and, secondly, to conduct friendly to entrepreneurs, because they will be able to account for the value of the investments made against the penalties they have calculated. It should be added that the procedures in question are initiated only when the results of the measurements for the entire period assessed or as a result of the checks carried out. Thus, we are dealing with the situation that the Regional Environmental Inspector wants to conduct proceedings, but there are no statutory tools for it, because the new legislation does not have this tool in the form of an administrative penalty. And that is the basic reason why we want to add these provisions. Returning to this situation of entrepreneurs, the revised changes will also allow those entrepreneurs who carry out environmental investments: reconstruction, expansion, modernisation and construction, to account for the costs of these investments against penalties due, in line with their applications. According to the rules, they are 5 years old, so the final decision can only be taken after the expiry of that deadline. For this reason, the provision of the Article. 2 as set out in the report of the committee, provides for the entry into force of the provisions of the Article. 1 point (2) (a) b and c with effect from 1 January 2018 High Izbo! Transitional provisions of Article. 1 point (2) (a) b and c should enter into force, as I said, on the day of the announcement, with effect from 1 January, in order to effectively fill these legal gaps and editorial shortcomings in this area of regulation. The practice so far has shown that Article. 545 in the current wording is a provision whereby a very broad catalogue of cases can be transmitted to the President of the Polish Waters as a body of second instance without sufficient grounds. On the other hand, an important interest of the State is also manifested in the protection of the rights of entities which, by virtue of the provisions in force prior to the date of entry into force of the Law, have their legitimate expectations in respect of timely termination and consideration of cases. And that's why there are changes. There is another change as the first in this draft in the committee's report. Its purpose is to remove the obligation to accompany the request for consent to the disposal by the Polish Waters of properties not covered by water-covered opinions of the valuer. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4 imposes an obligation on the Polish Waters to speak to the competent minister and should be used in this procedure simply as a result of estimation, the value of the property resulting from the assessment by the valuer of the property in order to avoid these costs unjustified. That's why there's a recipe for that first change. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the amendments I have presented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u148	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u149	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I'm sure I won't use those five minutes because I explained it in detail. and, I think, in a manner sufficient for these changes. Let me just add that the practice of applying the environmental information and protection introduced in the Act of 3 October 2008 and the public's involvement in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments of changes and regulations resulting from the Act of the new Water Law points to a certain increase in delays in pending proceedings and, therefore, it is appropriate to introduce this amendment from the article. Paragraph 545. One that has already been discussed. As regards the delays involved in the implementation of the Act of 3 October 2008, let me remind you that at the end of the 7th term of office, exactly 15 October 2015, the Sejm, the High Chamber, adopted amendments to the Act of 3 October, which radically extended the validity of environmental impact assessments. On the one hand, This is, of course, a gesture directed towards those who conduct administrative proceedings in which an environmental impact assessment must be carried out and cannot carry out these proceedings, but, on the other hand, it is also a review of the provisions of the Act, because if the environmental impact assessment is normally extended by 6 years and, in the case of decisions on environmental conditions, if the investment is staged, by 10 years, it also refers to the nature of those provisions and the extent of their complexity. As regards the provisions which introduced the new Water Law, namely this water law assessment, which is a significant simplification, may be applied in other proceedings, but in these four laws, namely the Construction Law and the other specific laws, the provisions that will be laid down after the adoption by the High House of this project will be more favourable. That's why it's obvious that my club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u150	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! They couldn't make it, they were supposed to come out of the Polish waters, they came out of the Polish swamp. The further forward, the deeper they get. And I don't know where it's gonna end. And I am not surprised that apart from Mr Paluch nobody from the club wants to perform, even from the PiS club, to talk about what a fantastic bill it is, this law on Polish Waters, because indeed as much mess as it has made, it has not been done in a long time. Well, they couldn't do it because the employees who were taken over under the bill didn't even have anything to work on. There is no contract signed at least with the Polish Post, so you can not send correspondence, no desks, no computers, no responsibility. This could be mentioned and told about the mess that has arisen, but what will it change? Today we are getting an amendment to Water Law, which, I will remind you, in its first version was to enter into force on 1 July 2017, was introduced on 1 January 2018 and is still not working, and is still unprepared. We get an amendment after 2 months of operation. But it's nothing yet, because as far as this amendment is concerned, it's possible to agree, because there's really a halt to proceedings, a mess... There's no one to do it, there's no one to lean on it. And let me remind you that you wanted to eliminate regional environmental management, so I don't know who would be doing this. And for this amendment, imagine, today in the committee we get self-corrections, which are three times more extensive than the bill itself. It's already a drama. So I appeal: withdraw this, do a proper review of the entire Water Law, reach for the amendments that the Civic Platform and the other opposition clubs have tabled, and make good regulations, because no one can figure it out today. Like I said, swamp, swamp, swamp again. Step forward in this swamp, we're stuck. And you're gonna drown in this mess because there's no way you can get your feet dry out of it. If an example of a small Lubuskie voivodship shows that these waters in this small voivodship will be managed by as many as three water catchment managements, because that's how it was added, then nothing yet, because there are tiny districts where these water catchment managements will be, I don't know, five, six. Who's gonna figure it out? What clerk's gonna figure it out? Really swamp, again swamp. Out of pity - out of pity, I say yes - we do not apply for rejection. But this project should be rejected, even though it improves certain records, because, as I say, everything needs to be done to correct all this confusion. Out of pity, we don't file a motion for rejection, but you can't vote on something that is, first of all... As the representatives of the Legal Office of the Sejm have said, the autofixes reported today go beyond submission. I understand that the PiS does not care about any legislative procedure at all, but ordinary decency dictates that the other Members cannot vote for something that is incompatible with legislative technique, which is incompatible with the principles of good law. We appeal again: withdraw from this, review the entire bill, use the opposition's clues and correct it so that it is good. I said nothing worked. She said that the validity of the decision, the validity of the environmental impact assessments, had been extended. Why shouldn't we extend it? If an investment is carried out in stages and there was an environmental impact assessment for the whole, why should we put it out and do the whole procedure again? On the other hand, the question will be, what about the construction conditions in areas near the rivers that expired on 1 January 2018. You can throw thousands of these construction conditions in the trash. This is the effect of the entry into force of the new Water Law. For many investors it will really be quite a problem, many investments will be stopped and many investments will not be able to be started at all. There's no guarantee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they would ever get construction conditions for these new investments. I'll say it again: swamp, you didn't make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u152	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Water Law Act. Theoretically, it could be assumed that the legislation being applied is right, because it removes the obstacle to making investments in or related to the aquatic environment. The point is, it was accepted in July Ub. and the Water Law Act in force since 1 January of this year introduced administrative chaos. The decision-making bodies do not know what right to apply to procedural actions initiated before 31 December 2017 and carried out later. That is why the legislator has invented - and yet he should anticipate this at the legislative stage, that such cases will happen - that he will amend the law and indicate that the old law will apply in the case of procedural actions taken before 1 January and from the date of the amendment, which is now, a new law. The problem is, however, with decisions and actions taken in the time period from 1 January to today. The applicants could not answer that question. They'll probably take a solution, but this is another proof of the weakness introduced in July Ub. r. Water laws. In the case of this legislation, it should also be alleged that applicants have already made amendments in the draft that go far beyond the original subject matter of the legislation before discussing their proposals. They have also introduced or want to introduce - because the law is not yet adopted - rules on which administrative decisions on penalties for unauthorised use of the aquatic environment can be issued backwards. It's a clear violation of the rule that the law doesn't work backwards. But this is not the only weakness of the Water Law Act. Today's discussion at the committee meeting exposed this in a clear way. It turns out that established under the Act the State Water Farm of Poland is in a phase called in statu nascendi. Chaos and chaos again. It's the most appropriate word to describe his activity. As a result of this chaos, the power plant on the Muchar Lake was not operating, and the warranty period for the equipment of this power plant was already over 46 million PLN. I remind you that twice already with a big bang and an even bigger flap was opened the dam on Lake Mucharski. This is due to the legislative chaos introduced by the Water Law Act and the lack of decision-making by local authorities of the municipalities Mucharz, Zembrzyce and Stryszów may lose the promised funding. This is due to the organizational chaos of the Małopolska branch of the State Water Farm Polskie is in such a hopeless state that it does not pay electricity bills. The Water Law Act also requires confrontation with other legal acts, because its contradiction with them prevents business activity e.g. water power plants or introduce excessive fiscalism in relation to them. We have pity, ladies and gentlemen, but because of the evil that this law introduces, evil is a very serious burden for entrepreneurs, but also for ordinary people, the Kukiz Club applies for rejection of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year, we were rapidly investigating a new draft Water Law, which - as we have pointed out - was simply poorly prepared, not suitable for proceding and, above all, did not address the main issue of the new approach to water management. In the course of our work at the government stage, we saw the fight of two resorts: the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Shipping about which part of the cake from the new Polish Waters will get for itself. Finally, it became clear that the water management company Polskie will be supervised by the Minister of the Environment. What suddenly turned out after the new year when the unit was about to start its business and start it? That this is the full responsibility for the supervision of this unit will be borne by the Minister of Shipping. To my question in the interpellation I got the answer that this is supposed to put water management in order. And what was the Water Law bill supposed to do six months earlier? Was she supposed to do a mess? You've done a mess. You actually made a mess with that bill. [[Applause]] [[Mr President, you are not in the inn, you are in the Seym.]] You have led to the fact that all investments, public investments, private investments have been stopped. Investment was supposed to be a lever and drive our economy. How much was it in the private sector last year? 11%. You held investors for months to come, because the projects that were submitted last year, when environmental decisions were started, were not completed. Instead of having the courage to stand up in the fall of last year and say that you need to revise this bill so that there are no delays, you lack the courage, as always. I don't know what you've been waiting for. Interestingly, Mrs Sibińska already mentioned this, the bill had 20 poems. How much does the bill count after leaving the committee? 72 poems. 52 lines of amendments. This is your procession style. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] So much for the project, so much for the committee's work. You guys are thinking about what needs to be done today. I guarantee, Madame, that this law in the amendment will have several hundred pages, because there are several hundred pages of bubli and all this needs to be fixed. But I'd like to use these last two minutes to talk about what this bill has brought. It was supposed to be for everything that employees would get 850 zlotys a job increase. The Minister for the Environment concluded an appropriate agreement in May 2016. So? I've got it in writing today. You tricked these people, you tricked these people. There's no raises. You're saying it's only in the long run that they can be found. Say it in public. Why did you buy these people to keep their mouths shut during this bill? Pure fraud. That's another line. I'm asking you how much for the investment. I must tell you that when I got the answer that, in the case of money for equipment, it would be allocated to the entire country of 1009 thousand, I could not believe it. When I was a marshal, in Małopolska we spent PLN 60.100 million in one voivodeship. How would you like to maintain this infrastructure? How do you plan to maintain this infrastructure? 1 million PLN? Shame. [[Applause]] It is a shame that this is the budget of the water catchment area, let alone the entire water management company. How much do you have on the buildings? 460,000. Jokes, ladies and gentlemen. Take a look at the budget of a small community, how much it spends on maintaining its infrastructure. You just didn't do it. Today we have such an effect that I receive information that half of the grant after six weeks of this year is already eaten. You're hoping there'll be some more money. How will you ensure functionality? How will you ensure continuity? Are you going to have payouts for those people who still don't have new employment contracts? Why aren't you paying bills for electricity in buildings that you've even taken over from regional governments where they were, running water melioration boards? Why are these debts so big? Why didn't you take over, make a whole new deal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is simply a scandal, what you have done with the Polish Waters within two months. I'm afraid to think about what's gonna happen next month. The Modern Club will, of course, vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u156	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Water Law Act. The amendments introduced are a response to the interpretation doubts raised around the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2017. The provisions introduced by the new law obliged the authorities competent to apply the new provisions also with regard to proceedings which are pending and were initiated on the basis of previous provisions. This legal situation causes many problems. The competent authorities are faced with the question of whether the procedural actions that were carried out prior to the entry into force of the new law, e.g. on the issue of a provision on the absence of the need for an environmental impact assessment, it should be repeated. This is due to the fact that the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2017 have obliged the bodies of the first and second instance which are conducting proceedings in matters of environmental decisions to obtain from the competent authority in matters of water law assessments the opinions and arrangements which have been introduced under the new law. This legal situation poses enormous difficulties in administrative proceedings which were granted running under the provisions prior to the date of entry into force of the new Water Law. There are many obstacles to this, among others. there is a need to return the documentation and to supplement the positions of the authorities on water law assessments after the investigation has been completed. Because of the implementation of the above mentioned above. the operation is not possible to deal with matters within the statutory deadline. This is very burdensome for investors. Projectors respond to expectations and propose to amend the transitional provisions so that in cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act of 20 July 2017. Water law concerning environmental decisions and environmental impact assessments of the company, the provisions in force before 1 January 2018 as well as the transitional provisions of the Act of 15 October 2015 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. The changes made will certainly meet with a positive reception of investors waiting for a timely investment decision. Proceedings before 1 January 2018 shall be deprived of the need to obtain opinions or arrangements from the competent authority in matters of water law assessments which have been introduced pursuant to Article. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. About Free and Solidarni will be in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u158	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will be the first to speak. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've had the new Water Law for two months, and we've already got to improve it. This is the standard of implementation of key changes in this country - in chaos, haste and on the basis of inconsistent rules. The existing law not only paralyzes the investments started before its entry into force, it has caused confusion in administrative structures. The PiS government was deaf to our comments. The National Water Farm of Poland is still in the process of creating an organizational structure. The delays in proceedings are increasing, so we need to go back to the provisions of the previous law to improve this. Has anyone already applied for compensation for losses resulting from the implementation of the new inconsistent Water Law? Don't smile, Member, because there's nothing to laugh at here. It was supposed to be a good change, and we have chaos and thoughtless lawmaking. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u160	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new Water Law introduced a rain tax. More precisely, it is a fee for reducing natural terrain retention, i.e. the so-called. drainage of rainwater or melting water, i.e. snow, from unscanned areas. Why another such important law, because it regulates for many water and sewage companies in our country the right to transfer this tax to a new government institution - the State Water Farm of Poland, a tax which cannot be charged because its conditions are not specified and there is no specific way of charging it today... It's February 27th. In 14 days, and really in 13, because farms, water and sewage companies have until 12 March, must submit appropriate applications for tariff approval to the competent authorities. I ask the question, Minister, on the basis of which they are to charge these tariffs. To date, none have been presented, but this is no way of charging this tax. These companies do not even know whether they should include roof surfaces in the calculation of this tax, or whether they should not include roof surfaces as far as they are concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These rainwaters. What has the new institution - State Water Farm of Poland done to this day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current Water Law Act entered into force on 1 January 2018, i.e. it has only been in operation since that year, has been in operation for 2 months. The question should therefore be asked why it is proposed to amend it. What legal and financial effects will these changes have, especially in the area of ongoing investment? Why the existing provisions of the paragraph. Article 1 545 as inconsistent - this is the case with you in the explanatory memorandum - were included in the Water Law passed on 20 July 2017? Are the changes now final, or are the next ones expected? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't this project be sent back to the government so that the government can think about what to do to make sure there are no further two amendments in a month? Today, the Member has brought a number of amendments, proposals to the amended law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is making another bubble. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But this is normal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Minister should be ashamed of himself. And Mrs Paluch, I would like to dedicate the proverb: Hurry is only indicated when catching fleas. You tried... you screamed at the committee meeting, the minister said, and you confirmed that everything would be ready. You've made a leap to the melioration board. It was supposed to be beautiful, it was supposed to be self-government. At the end of the year, it worked out just fine. Posts for yours and robots for zero. Typical Teddy Bear, type of Pisewicz. So? As far as environmental decisions that have not yet been approved are concerned, people who have been preparing for investment, farmers, entrepreneurs, all of this is halted. We talked about the period of vacathio legis, about the need to maintain transitional provisions. You had a mouthful of clichés, we had a water tax, chaos. Where's your minister who defended this bill like that? Where, Minister Materna, are you Minister Gajda, who here, in this Chamber, all the Members and all of Poland said how great this is going to be? It's the biggest bullshit of this term. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will continue with Mrs Skowronska's question and ask: Where is the perpetrator of all this confusion, Mr Gajda? Additional question: What bonus did Minister Gajda get for introducing this mess? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] 'Cause you split the bonuses to the right and to the left, you don't know what for. His boss, Minister Szyszko, got the biggest bonus: 70 million zlotys for cutting out the forest. [[Thousands.]] And Minister Gajda for the mess and this mess in the Polish Waters what bonus did he get? I'd like a written reply. [[Thousands.]] Millions. Thousand? [[Thousands.]] Thousands. Anyway, he got a lot, [[Game in the O.R.]] Whereas employees of Polish Vods still do not have decent working conditions, do not have signed contracts, do not know where they stand. And this is not the opinion of the opposition - this is the opinion of the trade unions that you ignored during the process of this law. You wouldn't let them say anything, they'd make a lot of demands. Madam President, the subcommittee assured me that everything would be fine, that everything would be beautiful. Well, it's not beautiful, it's just not beautiful. You didn't make it. There were supposed to be Polish Waters, there is a Polish swamp. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Thin, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u168	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. [[It's thin. You didn't make it.]] [[Voice from the gym: you've done your best and...]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Water law. I expected, being the councillor of the Sejm of the Wielkopolska Voivodship of several term of office - devices, water meliorations were in his competence - that this right would be good, or at least better than this. What did I find out? All the marshals I talked to - I talked to three - and the directors of these voivodship managements of melioration and water equipment... One sack of criticism. Competences were confused, competences were removed, agricultural matters in the field of melioration and water equipment were supposed to be not where they were. They're in shipping. Misunderstanding issues and topics at all. The powers of the elders and marshals were taken away. I do not know an institution that will always function better than an institution that is closest to the body. He's a marshal, he's an old man better than the minister knows what to do when to do and how much to do. Look at the state budget, how much money we have in the state budget for investment. It's just a few million. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, when I was chairman of the agriculture committee in the region, there was always a shortage of money, 8 But you've given us a percentage of the money to invest in the regions. Another story, ladies and gentlemen. Meliorations are a complex combination of vessels. Look at the terms we have right now. There's gotta be money. I've appealed to the Prime Minister so many times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No effect. This can't be right. You're busy with yourselves, organization, and things lie down. You didn't even hand over the specific equipment of the buildings, you handed over the employees themselves and the documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u171	No equipment. How are these people supposed to function? How are they supposed to work? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u173	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u174	Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The contested bill - although very necessary - is a confirmation of the great mess which arose after the adoption of the Water Law by the PiS. I mean, it's the biggest legal shit, as I've been saying. We warned and tabled amendments that would prevent the situation that is taking place at the moment. I have a question. Why is it that in this project that we are now investigating, other, already known, significant errors are not removed that prevent this law from working? What, for example? with compensation for the so-called. river plots for which building conditions have already been decided? Now we still don't know what's going on with these plots, these decisions about the construction conditions have been lost. The second very important topic has already been discussed today. By 12 March, Polish waters should be granted a tariff with rates to be approved, but there are no rules that allow such applications to be submitted to the institutions. March 12th is almost a week away. After all, this is a national shame. But we won't be ashamed of this project because it's not our project. We warned you: do not create or adopt such a bubble. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Their shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u176	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But there's still... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember working on this project on the committee. Nobody cared about the voice of the opposition, no one even leaned on the opposition amendments. We said, let's think about this project calmly. But country: no, just gallop, gallop. And we got what we got. I would like to ask the Minister a question, two questions. First: Does PGW Polish Water currently have all the obligations related to the functioning of the flood management in our country? And if not, what is the cost of the liabilities? Please indicate the amount per voivodship. Have the self-government employees been proposed on remuneration at the time of commencement of work? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to raise a point that I think is just an amazing bomb in this bill. On the pages of the water management company Polskie Water was published, where e.g. municipalities have... under which water catchments are subject, under which water surveillance is subject, where they can apply for water law permits. And, for example, Rabka-Zdrój in Małopolska, Myślenice, Sucha Beskidzka, Nowy Targ - of course it is not known with which route to whom. The same is true of the Member. [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] Another question, Oświęcim - four: Bieruń, Kęty, Oświęcim, Cracow. Whatever it is, there's no telling where people are supposed to do their business. Are you planning to carry out... Madame, I see that she is surprised, and I am not surprised when you do not know what the consequences are... [[Applause]] [[Speak for yourself.]] I would like to say right away: Krościenko nad Dunajec, Nowy Sącz and Nowy Targ so that you can tell the residents. I have a question, when are you going to do a big information campaign for municipalities, residents, so they know how to move around in this maze, because it's untraceable. [[You don't talk to a sovereign.]] Everything before that was clear: either old age or Marshal's office or the Board of Mercy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or the regional water management board, and instead of standardizing, you've put in such a division that no one will find themselves there, there's absolutely no chance of that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to congratulate you on your well-being, because if I were you, I'd probably hide underground. In fact, this project is further proof that the PiS does not care about the social side at all, but only takes into account the comments of the Pisiewicz people, who defend their interests, in this case it is about changing their stools, because they are really protecting themselves from accusations of organ inaction. She's a typical asshole. [[Applause]] We were hoping for a deeper reflection on the functioning of the Water Law Act, because we all hear it, and I hope that it also reaches you that this law requires work. I therefore have a question: When will the government present a comprehensive amendment to the Water Law Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u182	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Materna, Minister of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, will answer the questions. You're welcome. [[50% - increase in the value of buildings. Minister, this is a disgrace.]] [[Voice from the hall: And the ASF and the farmer lie down.]] [[Detailed melioration - disaster.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Most of them are actually like that, you can say, comments, you can always say about a big bill, mega-style, which was the Water Law. It could be, in fact, it should have come into force a long time ago, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, that's the truth. A lot has been done, the Ministry of the Environment has done a lot, megabotage, building this important law. It threatened us, you can say, almost in billions of zlotys compensation for the European Union. For many years there have been seven directives that have required immediate implementation and many things have been done. Of course, there's a lot to do, and that's what we see, like local governments. For 5438 employees, in fact, 2.5 thousand. It comes from marshals. What did the marshals say? Naked employees without any devices, without any equipment, and if they did, they're old computers that need to be replaced. It's just a scandal. This is a scandal that... You could say that by using the same rhetoric you're using, it's a scandal. Two and a half thousand. The workers who passed through have been deprived of... [[And the flood shaft for 5 million zlotys isn't a scandal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u184	Gentlemen and ladies, please remain calm. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Anyway, we're doing all of this, trying to get it back to normal as soon as possible. Of course, there are a lot of problems and we're trying to... As far as the very important tariff regulation is concerned, in spite of all this, the joint committee of the government and the local government has carried out a number of consultations. We were praised at the end. For more than 90 different amendments tabled, we agreed on a majority. And so-called. depreciation will be taken into account and it creates those tools that will work. As for when he comes in, probably today, tomorrow will be signed and local governments will have the opportunity to have 12 days to implement it, contrary to what you say here. In contrast, the Chambers of Commerce, the Polish Waterworks, praise us for the fact that we were able to consult and implement it quickly. So-called. Nitrates, that concerns you, has also been postponed for many years, and thanks to the fact that we have approached this comprehensively, it will be introduced and agreed with the European Union and we will implement it. [[50% of the construction costs, Minister?]] And the question is, when is it gonna be complex? Of course, we are consulting in a number of areas and I hope that in a short time there will be a government novel that will improve all of this, because this is what the megalaw requires, which contains 547 articles, and really is an important law that regulates many areas, as the rapporteur said, in more than 45 laws. Seven directives, I'm comparing this, and I don't think I'm going to make much of a mistake, to the important law of 1998, the self-government law, which regulated the number of voivodships - from 49 to 16. It's a big, big challenge, but we're trying. Our Ministry Prime Minister on 11 January this year. entrusted the responsibilities of the water management department. This department was transferred to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. We realize that there are many problems, but we solve them fairly calmly, all water law permits are issued in the municipalities on an ongoing basis, there is no big problem. The next thing that needs fixing, we want to fix it in a short time, so that it just doesn't work... You know, we operate on a living organism and things happen that just need to be clarified. We're not afraid of it. Water law has begun to work, and I hope that we will implement all of this as soon as possible. And this parliamentary bill is necessary. In agreement with the Ministry of the Environment as well as with the Directorate-General for Environmental Protection, we considered that a law was needed to improve the issuance of all permits so as not to create any congestion. And we thank the rapporteur here for doing so. This situation will be corrected in a short time. Thanks again, everyone. I really appeal: less politics and more action. [[Minister, I invite you to Wielkopolska.]] As far as regulation is concerned, increases are still very important. Let us be honest: These increases, when the funds appear, we will simply try to adjust accordingly. [[How much do you have in the budget?]] A joint committee of government and all trade unions was established. We talk all the time, we have a dialogue, and there's understanding about this whole thing. So there's a real request not to heat it up... [[How much money do you have in the budget, Minister?]] Enough. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How much money is in the budget? Promil percent. And we're drowning.]] Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u185	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I'm sorry about the club reps... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your marshal, would you please calm your clubmate down? Those schmucks aren't very serious about the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u186	I haven't started yet, Marshal... ...and I can already hear the smackheads. [[I'm sorry.]] High Izbo! It is regrettable that the statements of some opposition clubs focused only on PR games, on, in colloquially speaking, foaming rather than substance. Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone couldn't make it, he couldn't prepare the Water Law of the previous government. I would remind you that Water Law, adopted on 20 July, implements 8 directives: sewage, nitrate, water framework directive, bathing water quality directive, on the protection of groundwater against pollution, flooding, marine environment framework and environmental quality standards. In connection with the Nitrates Directive, we have already been punished, Mr President. [[There wasn't one on the board.]] [[Two years.]] For not implementing the article. 9 Water Framework Directive - it is about the reimbursement of the costs of water services - we were also charged penalties. The failure to approve the law amounted to PLN 15 billion, i.e. EUR 5 billion frozen and impossible to spend on water management. That's one thing. Second, was that fast, or was that slow? If the deadline for 1 July 2017 and the government work was extended, I ask you, mostly because hundreds of amendments, requests and requests for additions or clarification were coming. And thanks to the fact that the government's work had lasted so long and, so to speak, it was a lot more consultative, and our seym was easier. Here's another one, ladies and gentlemen. What amendments did you make to Water Law? What were your conclusions? [[Lots.]] I remind you of stories, moss fairy tales and ferns about the fact that this new entity will have 18 billion PLN of income. Read it. Nothing is as stained as ink, and nothing is as severe as the recording of your statements during the second and third readings. Each time, you've told some unpretentious stories about how your income reaches PLN 18 billion. What were your amendments? It was about ten. - a 20- or 100-fold reduction in the rate of water use charges. It was all your material work. So don't tell stories like that right now that we could use some of your ideas and that your material contribution was high. I'm glad the main opposition club didn't file a motion for rejection. Apparently, you have read that this law works for the benefit of entrepreneurs, because it clearly works for the benefit of these entrepreneurs. Presenting the project, I said that it clearly works in favour of those entrepreneurs who have calculated penalties, but who have undertaken to implement investments to improve the environment. They will be able to count these investment expenditures against penalties. This clearly works for the benefit of entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't do it yet. It's hard not to say... The urgency is mainly indicated when catching fleas, as it was gracious here to tell Mrs Skowrońska. If you did not really respect this principle with a dullness and in all its lengths, then perhaps we would not have such hard work to do in this term of office, because the Water Law should be adopted in 2015, and you know it. We've done a lot of hard work for you. You didn't want to talk about unpopular issues like water charges, which is the implementation of the article. 9 Water Framework Directive on the reimbursement of the costs of water services. We've done this hard work. It is difficult, Mr Aichler, for the marshals to be pleased that certain competences are concerned with them. As a club, as a governing group, you have never had a rational way of providing water catchment management, sir. [[Oh, come on. To this day, the Marshal has not responded to my interpellations.]] Mr President, you would not want to be involved in my statement, but you would like to report to yours. There's rules, you have to respect them. In short, the only concept you could afford as a governing group was the premature idea of 2011 to divide the boundaries of the water catchment areas and give the marshals to manage, which is simply in clear contradiction with the principle of water catchment management required by the directive. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you couldn't do it, at least don't beat the foam right now. Any law, especially such a comprehensive, multifaceted and regulated act, needs to be amended in the course of the implementation of the legislation. And such a change is presented to the parliamentary bill. To the clubs that have decided to support it, thank you very much and thank you despite all these political tours for the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Member. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Ajchler. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u187	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been making a motion to speak to the Minister about structures to store liquid and natural fertilisers. There are no answers until today. By 50% The state has increased the volume of these structures by 50%. The state has increased the volume of all buildings. These are huge costs. At the agriculture committee meeting, you hid this fact, no one knew it. I have read these 1750 pages along with the regulations of the Minister of Agriculture and I have seen what is written there. To this day, we do not know whether or not to cover these expenditures. As a group of 15 Members, we tabled an amendment to the budget for 500 million, because I knew what the money was in Wielkopolska. You've all rejected. So what else are we supposed to do, ma'am? These requests were made during the work. This bill is wrong, there's an imbalance in paying for water. You're saying it's okay. It's not okay. You walk like tanks, you do what you do, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today, see what the frosts look like in the fields...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u189	...what the melioration devices look like, who does the skills. Total chaos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u191	Welcome to Wielkopolska. Ask the marshals... [[Voice from the room: 8 years of your reign.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u193	...and decision makers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u194	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Civil Records and the Law on Civil Status Acts (prints 2236 and 2272). I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u195	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Civil Records and the Law on Civil Status Acts, Print No 2236 and 2272. At its meeting on 26 February, the Commission carried out its first reading of this draft law. The draft law provides for amendments to the Act of 24 September 2010 on population records and in the Act of 28 November 2014. The Law on civil status records in order to add to the data in the birth certificate of the parents' PESEL numbers, which will be introduced when the acts are created in the Civil Service Base, and the addition of the PESEL numbers of parents, if assigned, to the scope of the collected data in the PESEL register. This will provide clear information on the relationship between the person and her parents included in the birth certificate. This amendment aims to facilitate the provision of electronic services for which such data are required. This will enable users of data collected in the PESEL register to collect data on these relationships, which will simplify the delivery process of benefits, to make it easier and faster for citizens benefiting from aid schemes. In addition, the project provides for the possibility of electronic notification of the birth of the child. The provisions introduced provide for the notification of birth in the form of an electronic document. This will relieve parents who should focus their attention on a new member of the family at the beginning, from the embarrassing need to appear personally at the civil status office and devote time to official activities. The birth certificate will also include a statement of name selection. Upon registration of birth by the head of the civil status office, a summary copy of the birth certificate shall be sent to the person submitting the birth certificate, the notification of the given PESEL number and the certificate of registration in paper or electronic form, depending on the choice of the person making the electronic birth declaration. The project also provides for the possibility of reporting in relations between entities using access to the PESEL registry and entities competent to record events in the PESEL register in a written form or in the form of an electronic document. Currently, users of such access, e.g. National Health Fund or Social Insurance Institution, in case of non-compliance notify them to the Minister responsible for IT. The introduction of provisions allowing notifications of non-compliance directly to the authority responsible for data registration will significantly speed up the compliance of the data with the facts. The project also introduced provisions concerning the provision of data from the civil status register to the following services: Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Counter-intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service only to the extent necessary to carry out their statutory tasks. Finally, this proposal entails a change in the inclusion of the above mentioned State, Police, Military Police, Border Guard, Prison Service, in the catalogue of entities to which copies of the civil status act and certificates of the data on the person concerned are issued and not included in the register of civil status. These amendments are justified by the need for effective implementation of the statutory tasks of the special services. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication with the following exceptions: as regards the addition of parent PESEL numbers to the child's PESEL number, as from 1 December 2018; as regards the possibility of notification of non-compliance in electronic form, as from 1 May 2019; as regards the provisions concerning the electronic birth declaration of the child as from 1 June 2018. The Commission has introduced several legislative, clarification and regulation amendments to the proposal and has introduced one amendment to the Act amending the IT Act. This amendment aims to postpone the deadline for the implementation of this system by 30 May 2019 and not, as was the case in the draft, by 15 May 2018. The introduction of this amendment will provide the necessary time to complete the work to launch this ICT system. It should be stressed that, in the current state of the art of the design and implementation of the scheme, it is not possible to implement it within a statutory deadline, i.e. by 15 May 2018 Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I request the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on civil records and on civil status records. The contested law provides for the implementation of the necessary facilitations for citizens and public administrations in the use of civil status records and records. The amended bill will allow parents to electronically report their child's birth. This will relieve parents of the need to appear personally at the civil status office. The birth declaration will also include a statement on the choice of the child's name or names. The applicant for birth shall receive a copy of the summary certificate of birth in paper or electronic form, together with a PESEL number and a certificate of registration. The project provides for the possibility of reporting between entities using access to the PESEL register and those registering non-compliances in written or electronic form. This applies to NFZ, ZUS and other institutions. When drawing up the birth certificate, parents' PESEL numbers will be added to the data of the born child, which will be introduced when the birth certificate is created in the database of civil status services. The introduction to the birth certificate of the child's PESEL numbers of his parents is an important step in the development of a system of unambiguous relations between the person and her parents by entering the PESEL numbers of the parents in the birth certificate of the child. At the same time, the drawing up of birth certificates together with the PESEL numbers of the child's parents will continue to work to supplement the data in the performance of other activities, especially in the process of mass transfer of civil status documents collected in local systems at civil status offices to the civil status register. Introducing a child in clear documents - parents will allow users of data collected in the PESEL register to simplify the implementation process e.g. benefits and will facilitate and speed up the work of citizens in the offices. The Act introduces provisions concerning the making available of data from the civil status register to institutions and services to the extent that they perform statutory activities. This decision will be made by administrative means. This will improve the operation of these services and improve their effectiveness in the interests of citizens. The draft law in the framework of public consultation and opinion was consulted and consulted by all the institutions and organisations to which it should be notified and the comments submitted, if appropriate, have been included in the draft. The extension of the birth certificate of the child to PESEL of his parents will, unfortunately, only in the future will it be possible to conduct important statistical and demographic analyses. Changes made to the civil registry laws, the Civil Status Act will significantly reduce the time taken to deal with matters in offices. The creation of a register of civil status will free citizens from a number of bureaucratic activities, save them time to obtain documents of civil status. It is to be expected that many institutions requiring various documents, including ZUS, KRUS, NFZ, courts, prosecutors' offices, police, will depart from the massive mass demand of civil status documents, as they will be able to check in civil status registers whether they need information about citizens requested by them. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to thank the Ministry of Digitality for a bill that will make life easier for citizens and save a lot of time. I hope that we all hope that in the near future we will be able to introduce more projects as important as the current change in civil status and population records. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the legislative procedure without amendments, in the version submitted to the High House after first reading in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Civil Records and the Law on Civil Status Files, as well as the amendment adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs adopted by the chairman of the committee in addition on the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing Public Tasks, Prints 2236 and 2272. The amended laws are intended to ensure the necessary changes for the implementation of one of the key projects of the Ministry of Digitalization, resulting from the Integrated Information Technology Program of the State. The changes are primarily intended to facilitate and modernise the use of the Civil State Register. The novelty is that once the child is registered and the child is given a PESEL number, parents' PESEL numbers will be added to the birth certificate if available. In addition, the project provides for the possibility of electronic notification of the birth of a child, which is intended to facilitate and relieve the burden on parents. Documents certifying permanent or temporary check-in may also be drawn up and issued electronically. Applying such certificates will be easier and quicker. Before the draft amendments were brought to the session of the Sejm and of the committee, during the consultation of the draft, the remark drawn up by the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator was adopted. According to it, provisions were added to the proposed amendments, according to which data from the Civil State Registry will be made available to authorised special services by means of teletransmission after the approval of the Minister of Digitization, which is an administrative decision. The lack of external, civil control over the provision of these data to special services in the form of a single request for access to the entire register raises doubts. The dates of entry into force of the proposed amendments do not raise any objections. In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support solutions to facilitate the declaration of the birth of the child, while the rules on special services and their access to sensitive data of citizens are unacceptable. At the same time, we strongly hope that all doubts will be resolved until the law is implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u201	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuing, the question should be asked whether, in addition to these legitimate provisions on registration, i.e. the notification of the child via the Internet, the rear door is not introduced legislation, which is the next step to surveillance and looking into the private life of Poles, because such changes have been made instantly in this project - without any public consultation, without any agreement, and it is by the coordinator of special services. Now the data in the civil status file will be able not only to reach someone who is e.g. A spouse, but also a service that is supervised by the PiS. Why and why do you need such detailed information about Polish citizens? After all, in addition to basic information about them, there are data such as the annulment or termination of marriage or marriage separation. I see no reason for the services to monitor citizens and check data that are so important or so sensitive to citizens. What is still important, even the Ombudsman pointed out a certain question. I quote: The proposed solutions hit individuals' rights and may be contrary to the constitution, in particular the principle of information autonomy for citizens and the right to respect for private and family life. It should be stressed and summarised that authorities cannot obtain information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. Therefore, these changes, which were not prepared by the Ministry of Digitalization, were only proposed by the Special Services Coordinator, are unnecessary in our view and should not be included in this draft law, because in the original version of this project these entries were not. And we agree that the recordings that allow children to be reported are important. via the Internet, because this is of course a facilitation, a response to the challenges of the 21st century, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But in our opinion these issues are completely unnecessary, even unacceptable, so on behalf of the Civic Platform Club I make two amendments that will delete those entries that were not in the original version of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think I'm going to talk a little less because basically everything about this project has been said and it would be hard to repeat. I will agree here with my previous speaker that in fact a very large part of this law, this law, can be said, the original, prepared by the Ministry of Digitalization - that is, the change concerning the PESEL register, access to this register, the possibility of electronically reporting the births of children - is this part of the most desirable and going with the spirit of time. On the other hand, I think that the part concerning, as the previous Member has said, surveillance or access to the relevant services responsible for the security of our country's citizens' data, data that is definitely private, sensitive and sensitive, could not be included in this project. We would ask for justification as to why we should support such a change. In conclusion, Kukiz15 is as much in favour of the proposed solutions as possible, subject to this section on access to data by the services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can honestly say that I am very grateful to the Minister for Maritime Affairs that during his last speech he informed us about how lawmaking works by law and justice. Well, according to his words, it works so that there's a novel, there's a novel, and it's gonna work. And this is another example of this novel. That is, you are introducing something of the state - not for the first time, and I guess not for the last time - into a law that is quite reasonable, very beneficial, open to new technological solutions, which facilitates the functioning of the office, which helps people, because they have easier access to the office. But what if, like, a bill that should actually pass in five minutes and everyone should vote in favour, you guys are always gonna put something in it, and it's gonna make you want to smuggle something in? And here's a point that talks about access to information that's contained in the public record system that's going to be available to almost all the services. It is not enough, it is argued, that all this is done for the benefit of the citizens, that really with a view to the security of the citizen is introduced, that the Central Anti-corruption Office will have access to information, what was my grandfather's name, what was his middle name, how my wife from home, what are my children's names, etc. To be honest, as far as the safety of my family is concerned, in the context of such information for the Central Anti-corruption Office, it seems rather questionable. So what are we supposed to do with this bill, Minister? Because we do have a problem. And here my predecessors also said that we are absolutely in favour of those solutions that have been introduced in this bill, but we are against the service... Because it was the work of the Special Forces geniuses that caused this bill to be actually unacceptable by these records. And you're creating such a situation that right now you're going to say, well, we want it for the benefit of the citizens, so they just have easier access to the office, but of course the opposition is against it. How can he not object if such things are introduced into the bill? I have no grudge against the Minister here because I know who prepared it, and I know why the minister, the deputy chief of special forces, the special forces coordinator, was chasing you to get all the information. So let me put it this way: the Modern Club has a problem with this, because we absolutely cannot subscribe to the extension in principle of the surveillance of society, because this is clearly the surveillance of society. Because what prevented - as has been the case so far in the first of the prepared entries, when this amendment was not introduced - from being the procedure for obtaining this information? It's not like the servants just didn't have the opportunity to get to that information. They had, only in a civilized way, under some kind of control. It was said who had access to this information. And what bothers you that you're gonna blow it all up? I don't know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u206	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, that bill, until Minister Wąsik interfered with the offer to open an online register for the services, was quite all right. And this must be made clear that the rules that you have proposed, which are designed to make life easier for citizens, are all right. It is only absolutely incomprehensible that a very serious change in the way and extent of access to data is not even discussed in the Standing Committee is not discussed by the Council of Ministers. In some way, it is not known which, because this is not entirely due to information about the legislative process, the State accepts the coordinator's suggestion without talking, without analysing its effects. I, Minister, have fundamental reservations about how this law implements the guidelines of the European Directive of April 2016, which we will still talk about, I am talking about the Police Directive. One of the objectives pursued by this directive is transparency for the citizen as regards the processing of sensitive data, data about the citizen by all kinds of services. How will the citizen know that the service was processing this information, that it was interested in it? Since there is this directive and it is clear that such solutions should be included in legislation, it should be asked why they do not exist, Minister. Why isn't it here? Why the Process of Controversial Recording in this Law [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he that transparent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u208	Thank you very much. Now Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u209	Club of Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u210	It's still a club, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u211	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the initiative of the government, we are now working on the first stage of changes in the creation of a clear relationship between a person and her parents. According to the justification attached to the government submission, analytical work on the collection of parental PESEL numbers will be carried out in parallel also in the performance of other activities and in the context of the implementation of the mechanism for the mass transfer of civil status documents collected in local systems at civil status offices to the civil status register. Furthermore, it follows from the submission that links for persons born before the entry into force of the Act will subsequently be introduced, but this depends on the rate of filling in the civil status register database with civil status files. In order to speed up this process, a mechanism for mass migration of acts from local applications of civil status offices to the RSC must be implemented. However, in order for this process to be implemented, it is necessary to amend the Act of 24 September 2010 on population records and the Act of 28 November 2014. The Law on civil status records for adding to the data at the birth certificate of the parents' PESEL numbers. The indicated PESEL numbers will be entered as soon as the act is created in the civil status service database and the parents' PESEL number added when they have been assigned to the scope of the data collected in the PESEL register. The PESEL numbers of the parents will be entered in the PESEL register when the PESEL number is given when the child is registered, when the birth certificate is drawn up by the head of the civil status office. The project assumes the possibility of an electronic declaration of birth of the child. This change would greatly relieve parents from the often cumbersome need for a personal appearance at a civil status office. Such a notification will also include a statement on the choice of a child's name. This form of application will only be optional and not mandatory, which means that it will continue to apply in addition to the possibility of electronic declaration of birth of the child as well as the form of personal application of the parents concerned directly to the civil status officer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in principle supports the solutions proposed in the government proposal, but at the same time expresses its concern about the specific provisions regarding the provision of databases to certain entities specified in the draft law. It is about giving consent to the so-called. to special services for one-off access to databases of civil status records. At first glance, this record meant that one-off access to the civil status act means first access, not all subsequent access, i.e. unlimited access in its quantity possible. The provision thus formulated not only confuses the ordinary citizen, but also confuses the persons carrying out the order of the representative of the service in such a way that the official may understand the one-off consent of the official indicated in the draft law of the service as indeed a one-time act, rather than a one-time term understanding multiple and unlimited access possibilities. It is noted that, in the absence of civil control over special services, it will be difficult to verify the needs and objectives of these powers granted to officers by the proposed law. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is not opposed to the need to amend both laws, but in the interest of both public and private, at the stage of further legislative process, it will not be able to support the provisions in the form it raises objections about. At this stage of the work, we are in favour of referring the bill to further work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u212	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Civil Records and the Law on Civil Status Acts. The proposed amendment to the Act introduces the possibility to notify the birth of the child, a declaration of the choice of a name for the child in the form of an electronic document. In addition, from 1 June this year. it will be possible to issue an electronic certificate of check-in for permanent or temporary stays. The amendment of the law extends the scope of the collected data in the PESEL register. The change will consist in adding the parents' PESEL number on the birth certificate, provided that the number has been given to the parents. The provisions in this scope will apply from 1 December 2018. In this way, there will be data in the register that will clearly show the relationship between the child and the parents who are included in the birth certificate. I believe that the changes made are justified. There is currently no possibility to notify the birth of the child by electronic means. The amended law offers such opportunities, which will have a positive impact on the burden of parents who have so far personally had to appear at the civil status office. Young parents will be able to take full care of their youngest family member instead of running around in offices. I think that this change will meet with great approval of the newly baked parents. The amendment of the Act aims to improve the clarification of notified non-compliances by authorities benefiting from access to the PESEL register. At the moment, information on non-compliance had to be notified to the Minister responsible for IT, which significantly prolonged the waiting time for the correctness of the data recorded in the register. The provisions introduced shall allow notifications of non-compliance to be communicated directly to the authority responsible for the register. The change will have an impact on shortening the timing of cases. The amended Act introduces provisions concerning the sharing of data in the civil status register to services such as Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Counter-intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, but only for statutory tasks. It should be stressed that the changes made to the rules are essential for the implementation of the IT project on the construction and development of the system of state registers. However, the most important thing is that the proposed solutions will reduce bureaucracy, improve the certification process and significantly shorten the procedure for issuing them, in other words, be more friendly to citizens. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u214	Thank you very much. 10 ladies and gentlemen have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about some of the changes to the bill that Minister Wąsik proposed, former Vice-President of the Central Anti-corruption Office. The content of the Act proposed in its original form is a facilitation for offices and parents. The Minister's comments on the inclusion in the catalogue of entities entitled to access data from the civil status register have been taken into account, but the justification is very laconic. It is only stated that it is the need for the task of special services to be effectively carried out. I mean, art. 5a inserted after Article. 5. Why should intelligence agencies, intelligence services and counterintelligence have easier access to data? Does this not increase the risk of uncontrolled leakage of sensitive data? Can't the special forces work effectively without this record? I'd like a broader explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u216	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The EU's personal data protection reform to be implemented from 25 May 2018 also has consequences for civil status offices as processors of personal data in the context of the registration of civil status. In addition to a number of other obligations imposed, amendments to the Civil Status Act extend the circle of entities using the Civil Status Register. As far as I am aware, civil status offices have submitted their comments to the draft Law on Civil Status Acts in the framework of a public consultation. My question is: Are there still talks with them? Because they are the practitioners in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u218	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let me also ask you a question about the functioning law in the context of this amendment. For this moment, customers are waiting for a copy of the civil status act, which is not drawn up in the state register, in accordance with the Act from 7 to 10 days. It would be reasonable to allocate funds to complement this base, because this will only give the desired effect and create a robust system of state registers. Thanks to the titanium work of civil status officials, these registers are being filled. It's a toiling process. Is it not worthwhile to work to appreciate the efforts of these officials and to motivate them to continue in this direction, all the more so because there are special grants in the budget for civic tasks? For example, in 2017, in addition to the task funds, it was scheduled to be commissioned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Special reserve.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u220	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u221	That's $64,000. For every municipality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u222	Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask from a practical point of view, because we know - this is from the bill - how a marriage can register a child electronically. Explain to me how a couple who are not married can do this. In a normal situation, there is a paternity ruling. In this case, I didn't find that record. I would like to know if couples who are not married will be able to register the child electronically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u224	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to what Mr Sosnowski has already said. Indeed, the writing of the article. 5a, which speaks of a single application, is very confusing. Now I wonder if Minister Wąsik specifically designed it so that he could simply make everyone cocky because, on a good matter, the first victim of his cunning was the chairman of the committee, Mr Czartoryski, who could not fully believe that this record was so constructed - only the Minister explained to him - that this is so that the one-time proposal concerns a situation in which everyone would have access to this base all the time online. If, therefore, Mr Czartoryski, chairman of the committee with considerable experience, has doubts as to the interpretation of this provision, then, excuse me, what doubts can ordinary officials in civil status offices have? And here's the question. If this were the case, the court would decide if it was true [[♪ The bell ♪]] The data has been transmitted accordingly, as the court will...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u226	The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u227	...interpreted this record? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u228	...Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Questions for the Minister. What information is in the population registers and records? Have not institutions and services requested such information so far? And third question: What are the characteristics of the entities that apply to the registers for the collection of personal data? Please explain this, Minister. These matters were explained yesterday at the committee meeting. Everyone seemed to understand, and today I hear it needs to be explained again. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, to explain exactly what these records are all about, in an article that is being questioned here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u230	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! These proposals assume that special services, on the basis of a request submitted and subsequently consent by the Minister responsible for IT issues, will be able to obtain such access to data, e.g. from civil status records. The key question is: Will this be a one-off proposal that will apply to every citizen? Is someone sitting on a desk like this? in the CBA, he will have to, in the case of any citizen he wishes to check, submit such a request, and the Minister will have to give his consent, whether it is simply a one-time request for access, so that someone who sits behind a desk in special services can download this data widely? Because we didn't get an answer to that question. So I would very much ask the Minister to answer that question. Because it's probably crucial in those laws that raise so much doubt and are so controversial. Once again, I would like to stress that I believe that services should not have as much access to data and influence on what information about citizens can be made available to these services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u232	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak... Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I am aware that questions about special services are questions that should be addressed rather to Minister Wąsik. I don't see the Minister in the courtroom, so please respond in writing. I wanted to ask you about the provision that is proposed in the article. 5a in the added mouth. 3. The Minister responsible for IT by administrative decision may withdraw the authorisation to make the data referred to here available if the conditions resulting from the added paragraph are not met. 2. My question is: How will the Minister responsible for IT control whether the IT systems of the services mentioned in paragraph 1. 1 comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 1. Two? And my second question - I will also ask for a written reply: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the Polish and Poles who live in partnerships be able to benefit from regulations that facilitate registration? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u234	Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u235	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question, which continues to be the question that Professor Hrynkiewicz has already asked. Today, all information is also published by civil status offices in writing. How is this... Does anybody control who and when they released the information, and how is it counted? Now, if this law comes into force and it's in electronic form, will we be able to better calculate it and find out who is personally asking for this information, and will we be able to have such a settlement, so to speak, on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u236	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! About the civil status file, okay? In the second part, everyone on the opposition side raises one important thing: access of special services to documents of Poles. And that's the case in this case. I wanted to ask, state government, if you want to have access to information about Poles, you should not make a special bill so that every Pole knows: money laundering, state records, marriage, family, all information... The point is for you to finally say it, not on a trailer to every bill, you're trying to attach a special clearance regulation to the Secret Service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems to us that such a matter as access to information should be prepared by the government, not during proceedings in the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u238	Thank you very much. This question closes the list of questions and the list of Members enrolled in the vote. Now I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr. Karol Okoński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer all the questions, but I'd start by correcting one thing. I am, of course, an employee of the Ministry of Digitalization and represent them, but at this point I am also representing the entire government, so that I will not be manipulated into such interministerial games. This amendment, which, as you were aware of the transparency of the legislative process, was tabled by the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator, was discussed in the Committee of Ministers and later at the Council of Ministers meeting, i.e. de facto after its vote in both of these fora it became part of the project that we are now proposing. So that unfortunately it happens that throughout the legislative process, also at the stage of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, and this is not the first such case, there is also discussion and changes are taking place. I wouldn't be looking for a second bottom here, just the legislative process in the case of this bill just looked like that. Now, regarding the clarification of this wording, one-off access. In fact, I explained this at the committee meeting, but we also explained it, we also discussed this law with the Legal Office of the Sejm. And just for any ambiguity of this record, the Legislative Office of the Sejm did not pay any attention to us, so we considered that it did not require clarification. On the other hand, because these questions were asked in this forum, I actually confirm that it is so that I understand the process of connecting information systems: the IT system of the civil status register and the IT system of the individual services, which are listed in this directory in the act. In general, from the perspective of integration of information systems, this is the only process that makes sense, because it was intended to confirm that the IT system on the service side meets the requirements that are imposed in this law on this system. Among other things, it's something I think You have also not directly raised, that is, that this IT system must provide this, and it is as if the documentation of this system and the tests with it, which will confirm that this system must allow us to determine who physically, by name, asks for the data, what extent of data he asks and when this request is made. And then this is already a feature of a system of state registers and specifically a register of civil status. Our system records exactly every action in this system, including the one that is done via teletransmission and exchange services between systems. So, in the system of state registers, we will record in the log information to which you may have access, to which you can also in the framework of control over services which do not result from this law, but from the applicable rules, within the framework of legitimate concerns as to whether this possibility granted by this law is not abused, and they will also be able to request access to this information. Thanks to the fact that this is what we record in two systems, we are able to also crash these two systems later, both registers, i.e. the register of applications recorded in the service system and the register of information actually collected, also in preview mode in the civil status register. We're just getting full accountability and full transparency of who's reaching for this data. Of course, as far as the process is concerned, which is now, this process is now in such a way that at the moment when the services want to obtain this data, they apply to the head of the civil status office. But let's be clear, this is a purely formal conclusion. There, the services do not specifically justify why, why they ask, simply provide information that they need access to the data of a particular person, justify this operational purpose and the head of the civil status office simply makes this data available. Only that it makes them available in this way - and here I also refer a little to one of the questions - that after submitting a paper application this paper application is processed at the office. In fact, when it comes to the fact that someone is asking about a person, apart from the fact that it takes time, in my opinion - I am not a specialist in special services - it also potentially exposes a potential process, an operational process carried out by a given service, which, however, I assume - the objectives that are imposed on this service, i.e. national security, would not want information about the fact that they are asking for a particular person, to induce them to do something that would undermine the investigation. So what we're talking about is that when a single application is issued and technical conditions are met, it's actually later, at a time when a service officer asks internally in the system, and that's what we don't see from the perspective of the civil status register, he requests according to his internal procedure and the way the service operates for access to information, this information no longer requires an additional request to the Minister of Digitization, because it was issued on the connection of systems. On the other hand, because this process of accessing data is also subject to the operation of individual services, it is the very fact... It is also not that these persons can in any way, without justification, call these services from the level of the service IT system to the civil status register, because they would simply violate internal rules and could also be subject to disciplinary action in the context of internal control of these services. And in our opinion, this provision from the security perspective of our information, also what happens to this data after this request comes from the services, and after it is processed also at the civil status office... At the moment when it is in teletransmission mode, we have this accountability in one and the other system assured. In fact, the whole process is sealed and, in addition to this acceleration and from the perspective of the service of increasing efficiency in operation, we also increase the safety of trading, processing of these data, because these data do not de facto leave this process in the form of a print form, some paper form, but are processed electronically. So I think - I look at the questions that you have asked here - that this need to report this access to the register of civil status by means of teletransmission is simply the result of the practice derived from the fact that this current process was simply inefficient, and because of the activities carried out by the services in this case it was such a slightly more illusory control of access to data, and in fact it was an extension of the process. As for GDPR, please, it is clear to us that now, due to the proposed changes, any change which enters into force after the entry into force of the law according to GDPR must have the so-called. privacy by design, i.e. it must take into account these aspects relating to the processing of personal data and this applies to all state systems. Our state systems and services must be adapted to the GDPR. And as far as the Ministry of Digitalization is concerned, this work is underway at least in our case. As far as contacts with civil status offices are concerned, I also assure you that they are permanent. In the project, the development of the System of State Registers, in the control committee of the project, we also have a representative of this environment, civil status offices, to make sure that information is exchanged on an ongoing basis, and these requests and comments from civil status offices are included in the package also as regards the changes that are designed for the System of State Registers. With regard to Mr Kilian's question about the somewhat increased pace of migration in the case of the civil status file, the process has motivation on the one hand, i.e., there is a financial incentive for civil status offices, because in the process of migration every immigration act is paid, it is a paid work. We also have additional tools that we have prepared in a simplified version for the time being, which are already implemented for production and which allow to migrate data from local databases automatically to the central base. Another change is planned in the near future, which will allow many acts to be signed by means of a single signature, to speed it up, to migrate civil status files from local bases to the central base in packages. So it seems that this process should take momentum. As regards any comments on the rates for the activities carried out by civil status offices - I am a member of the Board of the Joint Government and the Government, and I am aware that these discussions are also ongoing - it is precisely the issue of rates that is outside the competence of the Minister of Digitization, it is in the competence of the Minister of Finance, so that I cannot address this at this moment. With regard to Mr Bakun's question about the electronic notification, which, when we are talking about the fact that there is a notification of a child's partnership, who does not have an act of marriage, will be served in such a way that, as part of the annexes to the application, a declaration of recognition of the child has to be made. Both sides just have to express... because it doesn't seem... In addition to the documentation. This application will be processed as any other application. Okay, it's an additional document to draw up, but from a mode perspective it's the same electronic mode, also available. What information is stored in the civil status register? These are, ladies and gentlemen, birth certificates, death certificates and marriage certificates, and all the data-related changes, that's what we call them. references to these documents. As for the mode of access to these data, as I said, at this point there is a requirement for both the officials working on the Source app, as well as for those systems that we will connect to each of the employees who either through network services or through the Source browser, or through the field system connects to the SRP system... It is a requirement that each of the officials have a certificate card that assures us that this person who has access to the register is actually the person who has the authority. Each card also has an access code that must be entered before downloading, before logging in to the system and before performing activities in the registry. As for the answer to Mr Carrot's question, I think I answered it. As to Mr Suchon's question about the technical implementation of the withdrawal point, I will not answer you in detail at this point. On the other hand, what I can assure you is that this law directly gives us a mandate that every system connected to the System of State Registers must comply with those requirements which are included in the Act, and in the event of whether it is a periodic check or simply an ad hoc question and failure to comply with such a criterion is the basis for this consent to be revoked. And I answer Mrs Skowronska's question - I am not aware that the government is planning some big bill that is to somehow develop mass uncontrolled access to data about Poles at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u240	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products (prints No 2266 and 2280). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, contained in print No 2266. Today, the Committee on Agriculture carried out its first reading and examined the bill. Its purpose is to extend the scope of tasks of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles to the tasks of carrying out laboratory tests on samples of agri-food products for the implementation of the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy relating to the organisation of agricultural markets and to carrying out laboratory tests on samples of agri-food products for the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. In carrying out its new tasks, the inspection will work with the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture under the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy and the National Agricultural Support Centre for the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. This cooperation will take place on the basis of agreements concluded with the restructuring agency and the National Agricultural Support Centre. The requirement for laboratory testing of agri-food products in order to confirm their quality laid down in European Union legislation when implementing the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy entails the need for continuous laboratory analysis in eight mechanisms, inter alia. in intervention buying in and selling butter and skimmed milk powder, private storage aid for butter, intervention buying in and selling cereals, industrial sugar processing, private storage aid for pigmeat or private storage aid for skimmed milk powder. The implementation of the mechanism under the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived also entails the obligation to carry out laboratory tests on foodstuffs provided under aid to the poorest. The Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency and the National Agricultural Support Centre do not have their own laboratories. Therefore, given the need to carry out laboratory tests on samples of agri-food products under these mechanisms of the common agricultural policy and in the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived, as well as to optimise the spending of funds for these purposes, the surveys should be carried out by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, as the inspection has modern, specialised and well-equipped laboratories that carry out research on all groups of agri-food commodities. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the bill is authorised for the President of the Council of Ministers to transfer to the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles by means of a regulation of budgetary appropriations, which in the 2018 Budget Act have been secured for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to carry out samples of agri-food products in the framework of the implementation of CAP mechanisms and Part 44: Social security - to carry out sample tests in the framework of the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. The project will not increase expenditure from the state budget or from the budgets of local government units, nor will it affect the competitiveness of the economy, in particular the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed date of entry into force of the Act, 7 days from the date of publication, results from the need to ensure continuity of laboratory testing of samples of agri-food products. No amendments were tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The proposed changes are not controversial, they are necessary. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to ask the High Sejm to approve the Government bill in print 2266. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u242	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Richard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the Act amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products, print no 2266. High Izbo! The proposed law is an amendment to the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products. The purpose of this law is to add the tasks of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles related to the laboratory testing of samples of agri-food products for the implementation of the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy relating to the organisation of agricultural markets and to laboratory testing of samples of agri-food products for the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. In carrying out these tasks, the inspection will cooperate with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as well as with the National Agricultural Support Centre. As part of the implementation of the CAP, it is necessary to carry out laboratory tests on samples of agri-food products taken. Such an obligation arises directly from Union rules which indicate that intervention products must meet certain quality parameters. The requirement for laboratory testing of agri-food products in order to confirm their quality laid down in European Union legislation when implementing CAP mechanisms requires continuous analysis in these mechanisms. The Agency and KOWR do not have their own laboratories. It is therefore necessary to sign the agreement, to cooperate with the inspection to be carried out by the restructuring agency and the KOWR. The relevant agreement will therefore be signed. Experience so far in cooperation with inspection shows that carrying out laboratory testing of samples of agri-food products by inspection is a solution that guarantees the best quality of the research carried out. These laboratories are of course modern, controlled and very well equipped. The project also does not increase expenditure from the state budget or from the budget of local government units, nor does it affect the competitiveness of the economy, in particular the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates the adoption of a government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products from Printing No 2266. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u244	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill under examination introduces tasks for the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection for carrying out laboratory tests for the common agricultural policy in the context of the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. It follows from the draft law that the provision of assistance to those in need under the European Fund will be carried out as follows: namely laboratory research will be carried out by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will carry out the tasks related to support under the common agricultural policy, while the National Centre for Agricultural Support shall carry out the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. Further from the text of the draft law we learn that agreements are to be signed between the said institutions on cooperation and cooperation. In this situation, the question arises as to who will control, check, account or supervise the signed agreements. We believe that we are dealing with unnecessary bureaucratic mechanisms here. We think it's art for art. We know well that Polish and European taxpayers' money for the functioning of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived must be properly spent and settled. Will the agreements concluded between the institutions under the agricultural minister therefore meet these requirements? And two more important points. Minister, I would ask you to clarify two points. Namely, in 2017 the cooperation agreement between the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles was in force until 31 December 2017. This is on the page. 3 justifications. Question: "Does this mean that since 1 January 2018 the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles does not carry out research because there is no contract?" And there's also the second point. For the reasons set out in page 1 of this Official Journal: 6 We learn that the agreements between the restructuring agency, the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles expired on 31 December 2017. The question we are asking is: Is the aid scheme for the most deprived at this point being implemented, is it not being implemented, and if it is being implemented, is it without appropriate laboratory testing? This situation shows that the Ministry of Agriculture is not in control of the legislative process, which may, as a result, expose our citizens to various problems, including health problems, because, let me remind you, laboratory tests are not being carried out at this time. This is actually very important. I would ask for a clear answer to our doubts. Minister, you have to be a charmer too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u246	Thank you very much. Now Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, which in turn regulates the functioning of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles and one of the governmental agencies which operates in the area of food, agriculture, food products or in the area of contact between Polish farmers and the market. It could be considered whether this justification, which was set out in the draft, was what the rapporteur put forward when he spoke about the course of work in the committee, where there was really no comment in the formula of the amendments, whether what Mr Kazimierz Plocke just said required such a change, or a legislative change. Because, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, and we also did not have such signals from government sources, so far there has been no problem with the smooth implementation of this mechanism within the framework of the common agricultural policy or as part of the help of the poor. In a situation where there was a Agricultural Market Agency and there was no National Agricultural Support Centre, these studies were carried out. They were performed on the basis of contract, agreements between inspection, which was actually very well equipped in previous years with laboratory equipment and such research carried out, and those institutions which implement a common agricultural policy or a policy consisting of helping the poor population. So, since such agreements were, I do not know what the point is to present a new statutory regulation, which, as it were, confirms what has been so far, because it is also said that once this law enters into force, there will be a need for an agreement between the three institutions. But in order not to give the sumptuousness of the PiS to say that the opposition is blocking anything, we believe and agree that, since you have presented such a project, it is worth considering it, so yes and no different we behaved at first reading, i.e. we have not submitted comments and expectations to this project. We see, we see, how other institutions work, which are subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture or other ministers, such as the aforementioned National Agricultural Support Centre, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, veterinary services in the case of African swine fever, where there is one great chaos. This disease not only did not stop, but also in a very dynamic range enters new districts, into new municipalities in Poland, the one located west of the Vistula. Similarly, other activities, other tasks that are before government agencies could be mentioned. Although the new format for area applications in the form of a statement is not very much supported by farmers, as evidenced by the number of statements so far made or galimatias related to it, or earlier information, already from the country's political environment, that the agency for restructuring and modernisation in this area is not working well. Is there, for example, the last mechanism that works, a mechanism that is being implemented as aid to those who are losing in connection with the Russian embargo? For the first time in how many years this EU aid has been in force, since 2014, farmers have not received a decision but, in a sense, on the basis of their applications, implement this mechanism without really knowing whether they will receive compensation for all products withdrawn from the market. So just so there is no summary to say that we are interfering with something as an opposition, we will support this project and we will vote in favour of this project in further work - just because we believe that this project belongs to the laws of the non-harmful, but also to the non-communicators, and in this House there have been more harmful projects. At the time we behaved as we did, so we voted against these projects. We will support this project exceptionally, but I agree with the previous speakers that it is not necessarily the project that should see the light of day at all. It regulates an issue that is already regulated today and which is functioning and functioning well in previous years. It's an art for art, but we'll support it after all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u248	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel. [[Can I ask you some more questions?]] The Member has come forward. You're welcome to join us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law provides for an authorisation for the President of the Council of Ministers to transfer to the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles, by means of a regulation, budgetary appropriations. This is about the money that was secured by the 2018 Budget Act for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for the testing of samples of agri-food products. The projector refers to the studies carried out in the framework of the implementation of the common agricultural policy mechanisms, namely the carrying out of sample tests in the framework of the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. I would like to ask whether these measures have been secured in sufficient amounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u250	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u251	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All the laboratories available to IJHARS are five: central and four branches. We now extend this law to the tasks of the IJHARS to carry out laboratory tests for the purposes of the common agricultural policy and the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. Isn't this because these labs aren't too many, and because of the research that's going to be done now, the other tasks that the IJHARS has to carry out aren't going to be neglected? Will all these commitments that IJHARS must fulfil in the field of food safety that goes to Poland therefore be implemented at the same level as before? I don't even think [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they should be on a higher level, so as to protect thoroughly the food that goes from outside to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u254	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u255	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I would like to ask how the support programme for the most deprived will be implemented in 2018 in the context of the tenders announced for the purchase of goods and food. In what range will these products be bought in and for what amount? We would also like to know what group this program will be addressed to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u256	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jacek Bogucki, will now speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer your questions on the allocation of funds to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for Research. This appropriation is entered in the Agency's financial plan. We plan to transfer more than PLN 2 million to the budget of the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection for the implementation of these studies from the financial plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Question about other tasks. The inspection shall be prepared to carry out the research tasks referred to in that law; it shall have been carrying them out for years. By the end of last year, she implemented them on the basis of an agreement concluded between the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, I apologise, the Agency for the Agricultural Market - because it has so far been in the Agency for the Agricultural Market - and inspection. So there are no new tasks here, they are saved in the bill as tasks that can also be carried out, so far, by inspection. Here I also answer the questions that have been asked about how this is happening at the moment. They are realized, except that GIJHARS is doing so at the moment for its own resources, and since it is an entity whose budget is not too great, and indeed financial reinforcement is needed, we would like it to be implemented in accordance with EU law, according to which it is the entity responsible for implementing these programmes, finances the research so that it is carried out simply for payment. As regards the implementation of the programme in 2018, a sub-programme from 2017 worth PLN 320 million is being implemented. It's about 19 product types. I can quickly replace them: peas with carrots, white beans, tomato concentrate, beets, plums, egg noodles, corn noodles, white rice, buckwheat, butter biscuits, UHT milk, rennet cheese, pork stew, poultry ham, minced pork, pork pate, mackerel fillet, white sugar and rape oil. Thus, this is a significant amount coming from the Operational Programme of Food Aid, which is in the process of being implemented and is sent annually to people in need in Poland. As I said at the committee meeting, this is carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. As regards the control of cooperation between GIJHARS and the Agency in this area, both institutions are subject to the supervision of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, it is up to the Minister to supervise the implementation of these agreements and this cooperation as well. She is good, we regulate the law only in fact the ability to transfer the appropriate funds and the ability to cover the costs of these research by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. About...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: I think that's pretty much it, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u259	Government bill amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, print no. 2266, is processed at a very rapid rate. Hurrying does not serve to make good law. After reading the project, it raises no major concerns in my opinion. Any positive changes in the agricultural sector meet with the approval of the environment that I represent. However, in order to carry out an in-depth analysis, the project should be available at least a few days before the process. In the future, I ask you to consider my position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u260	Government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The project concerns laboratory testing of samples of agri-food products for the implementation of common agricultural policy mechanisms for the organisation of agricultural markets and the implementation of operations co-financed by the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. At this level, the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, which has been added to this obligation, will cooperate with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and with the National Agricultural Support Centre. The cooperation agreements which IJHARS will conclude with ARiMR and KOWR will specify, among others. mechanisms under which laboratory tests will be carried out, detailed scope and time limits for carrying out laboratory tests and detailed rules for the preparation and delivery of samples for laboratory tests. The IJHARS agreement with ARiMR will include provisions to ensure that ARiM meets the accreditation criteria as a paying agency. The Union rules set out the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy for the quality requirements of intervention products, the methods used to determine their quality, the methods of sampling and analysis. The project is therefore also to be adapted to the EU regulation in this area. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the draft law was addressed to public consultation of national industry organisations and associations and organisations, but no comments were made within them. The implementation of the research this year will cost about PLN 2 million. At this stage, it is difficult to determine whether this will be sufficient. However, as the Ministry assures (and we hope that it will keep its word): The project will not increase expenditure from the state budget or from the budgets of local government units. It will not affect the competitiveness of the economy, especially the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. This law has been implemented rapidly, which should not be practiced in the legislative process of any legislation. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u261	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law (prints Nos 1042 and 2234). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law, print No 1042. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 2234. The first reading of the draft in print No 1042 took place at its 31st meeting on 2 December 2016, when the Civic Platform Club requested that it be rejected at first reading. However, this proposal has not been recognised by the High House, which has decided to transfer it to the Environment Committee and the Agriculture Committee. A subcommittee was set up to carry out detailed work on the project. High Izbo! Both the hunting economy and the estimation and the payment of hunting compensation have been controversial for years. To date, the way these tasks have been carried out has brought about the right dissatisfaction of farmers. Setting compensation by hunters, problems with payment of the sums due to farmers, lack of redress are legitimate reasons for dissatisfaction. On the other hand, we do not live today, in the 21st century, in a paradise garden. Man has interfered so strongly in nature that she alone is unable to maintain a balance between species. The man must perform a regulatory function and this function is being performed by hunters, especially in recent months, when Poland has struggled with African swine fever - still struggling with it - which requires a radical reduction in the number of boars living in our country by firing them off. It is these months that show how much people are needed to accomplish this task. High Izbo! During the work of the subcommittee, 35 amendments were removed from the project, art. 1, relating to the Hunting Law Act. It's about changing 1-4, 8.-11, 15. -33., 36. -41. And 43. -45. In the project there were only changes governing the setting of boundaries of hunting circuits by the sejmik voivodship, art. 27 Hunting rights, the right of the owner of the parcel to refuse the establishment of a hunting circuit on his property, which is in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014, and the rules for the estimation and payment of hunting damages. The revised rules provide that an assessment will be carried out by a team consisting of a representative of a municipality body, i.e. a councillor or an official, a representative of a tenant or a manager of a hunting circuit and a farmer injured. If, at this stage, the parties reach an agreement, compensation shall be paid. If not, re-estimation will be performed by the local soundtrackers. It will be possible to appeal to the general court from a forward-looking decision. The compensations will be paid from the funds of the tenants or managers of the hunting circuit. There is a liquidation of the Compensation Fund, and the damage will be reported to the governor, not to the voivode. In addition, during the work of the subcommittee on the advice of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, the amendments contained in the article. The two projects which referred to the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Law on Hunting Law were incorporated into the article. 1 and referred directly to the Law on Hunting Law, and the Act of 22 June 2016 will expire. This legislative procedure will certainly facilitate orientation in the amended legislation. High Izbo! At the stage of work, the joint committees introduced a package of amendments resulting from discussions and arrangements with the social side carried out by Minister Kowalczyk. These amendments provide for the real supervision of the Minister of the Environment of the Polish Łowiecki Union. In particular, these are these changes. Firstly, the Chief Executive Board shall report annually to the Minister for the year preceding 31 July. The Minister may request additional explanations and additions, he may order control of the Polish Łowiecki Union on the basis of the legality criterion, he may issue audit recommendations. The Polish Association of Hunters is required to send resolutions of the National Congress of Delegates and the Supreme Council of Hunters, which the Minister may repeal or which he may annul in whole or in part. The authorities of the Polish Łowiecki Union have a 5-year term, and two terms can be performed in the bodies of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The Minister shall appoint a national hunter from among the three candidates submitted by the Chief Hunter Council, and may also revoke him. At the request of the hunter, the national minister shall appoint from two to four members of the Chief Executive. The following article contains transitional provisions governing the rules and deadlines for the appointment and selection of new bodies of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The changes are deep. However, it should be noted that the Polish Hunting Union has the characteristics of a forced organisation similar to the self-government referred to in Article. 17 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as stated in judgment K 21/11 of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Polish Hunting Union runs the hunting economy, while wild game belongs to the State Treasury. The Polish Hunter Union therefore manages resources that are our common good and should therefore be subject to control. The new control and surveillance instruments described above will strengthen the generational change, which has been taking place in the Polish Łowice Union for several years. The second issue, which is another issue regulated by these new amendments, is dezubekowanie. The bodies of the Polish Łowicki Union in accordance with the regulations that we have in the project and the management board of the hunting circle will not be able to include the person who was an employee, officer or soldier of the state security authorities. Persons born before 1 August 1972 will be required to make a illustrative statement under the procedure of the Mirror Act and the amendment amends the article. 4 and 8 of the Illustration Act concerning the verification of the accuracy of the illusory statement and the consequences of the misrepresentation in it. High Izbo! An important role in the functioning of the Polish Hunting Union and the proper hunting economy, in preparing young hunters to respect the principles of ethics, customs and hunting traditions, is played by who and on what principles sets the goals and directions of the Polish Hunting Union. This change of rules will allow the work of the Polish Łowiecki Union to be managed by people who, with their previous conduct, gave guarantee of integrity and decency. High Izbo! Another change is the possibility provided for the owner - it relates to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014, and I am talking about the state of the joint committee's report - making a written statement with a notarized signature on the prohibition of hunting on his property. It shall take effect from the day following the date of its service to the lessor of the hunting area - it shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Act of the Starost - or the Minister for the circuit excluded from the lease. Let me remind you that the OHZ have a slightly different regulation. Therefore, damage to property subject to prohibition of hunting will not be compensated. The establishment of the ban significantly limits the scope of the hunting economy, makes it difficult to reduce the number of game populations that cause hunting damage, so it obviously involves the intensity of payments, the scale of the hunting damage and the compensation associated with them. The withdrawal of the declaration of prohibition of real estate hunting may take place after the end of the hunting marketing year. I repeat: this is the situation recorded in the report of the Joint Committees, which does not yet exclude the possibility of modifying it. The fourth issue, which is included in these new amendments, is the clarification of the rules for reducing fire in national parks and nature reserves. I would like to remind you that the regulations on reducing fire in national parks and reserves have been in the Hunting Law for 22 years. This was usually done in such a way that the gunshots were recorded annually in the park's protective tasks and were most often carried out by a park worker. However, taking into account the expectations of the social side, they have been introduced in paragraph 1. 4, 5 and 6 in articles. 8 The hunting rights supplement, which provide for individual authorisations issued by the manager of the park or the regional environmental director, the supervision of the park worker or the DGOS in the performance of the reduction shot and the execution of such a shot in the first place by the national park staff. Such provisions shall be included in the report of the Joint Committees. The fifth issue included in these amendments is the introduction of rules that allow the Polish Hunting Union to take over the obligations of the hunting circle. In the event of the dissolution of the wheel, the Polish Association of Hunters is entitled to a refund claim concerning members of the Management Board of the circle, while in the event of non-payment within the deadline of compensation, the Polish Association of Hunters is entitled to a refund claim for the entire circle. Further rules to protect against possible insolvency, e.g. the compensation fund, may be established on the basis of the statute of the Polish Łowiecki Union. Here's another one. To date, the provision on obstruction of hunting contained in the report of the subcommittee in Article. 42aa, paragraph 13, concerning deliberate obstruction of hunting has yet to be mitigated. In the report of the Joint Committees, the entry concerns, I quote: deliberate obstruction of collective hunting, i.e. it is limited only to collective hunting, excluding forest, agricultural or fishing activities, the end of the quote. This is precisely the case at the moment in the report of the Joint Committees. The report of the joint committees shall specify a minimum distance for the shooting of the game. It has already been increased from 100 m to 150 m, but it does not rule out proceding on a subject that arouses great social emotions. The reason for adopting this compromise is the possibility of ensuring a sound hunting economy and responding to the progressive synanthropisation of the game, i.e. penetrating settlement areas in search of food. This record is also, so to speak, the subject of further discussion. Another change requires State Forests to organise training on the estimation of hunting damage, which was the responsibility of agricultural improvement centres in previous records. High Izbo! Parliamentary amendments were also introduced during the work of the joint committees. Amendment 8. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1b: at least 50% local hunters in the hunting circle. I'd like to remind you that this was evoking a big social MRI. Farmers demanded, claimed that if there is a problem, the game does excessive damage and the population needs to be reduced, the most effective is the action of local hunters and hence this amendment, which meets the expectations of farmers. In turn, in amendment 14, Article 14. 46e in the paragraph. 4 was increased from 1 month to 3 months by the time limit for bringing an action before the General Court for damages. Another parliamentary amendment - amendment 14 in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 - refers to the deadline for final estimation. High Izbo! Work on the government bill amending the Hunting Law law lasted for over a year. The meetings of the subcommittee were eight, meetings of the joint committees - three, consultations and meetings with the social side could not be counted. However, I think that the effort put into preparing the amendment of the Hunting Law has brought good results. The aim is to balance the positions of the parties and to allow the changes adopted to allow everyone to seek to respect their interests. High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and Agriculture and Rural Development, please adopt a draft amendment to the Hunting Law Act and certain other laws contained in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 2234. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u263	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u264	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. Primary printing is 1042 printing. The main objective of the proposed law is, in addition to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, to introduce mechanisms to strengthen the supervision of the Minister responsible for environmental matters over the Polish Łowicki Union and to discipline the tenants and managers of hunting circuits in the implementation of annual hunting plans. The judgment of the Court states that the authorisation to take ownership of the property under the hunting circuit regime does not provide adequate legal means to protect the rights of the owner of the property. In the proposed law we take into account this and other doubts of the tribunal. Owners or users of perpetual property covered by the hunting circuit will be able to challenge the resolution of the voivodship sejm to the administrative court if it violates their legal interests. The proposed solutions adequately ensure the participation of owners and users of perpetual real estate in the process of dividing voivodship into hunting circuits. Owners or users of perpetual property covered by the hunting circuit will be able to make a written statement, with a notarially confirmed signature, of the prohibition of hunting on the designated property due to religious beliefs or moral principles. The project imposes information obligations on collective hunting. Owners and managers of hunting circuits will be required to inform in writing about planned collective hunting that is appropriate due to the place of hunting of mounds, mayors, city presidents and rivermen in good time. The draft provides that the owner, owner or landlord may object no later than 3 days before the planned date of commencement of the collective hunt. However, the objection will only be taken into account if hunting would endanger the safety or life of people. The project recognises a level playing field between tenants and managers of hunting circuits. The granting of the right of priority in the conclusion of the lease contract to the previous tenant for the following period shall be waived. The exercise of this right deprives the tenant of effective enforcement of the obligations incumbent on the tenant. It is proposed to require the Polish Hunting Union to provide environmental ministers with annual information from its activities and to extend the proposed supervisory regulations, including. the right to request resolutions and explanations as well as the right and possibility to impose a fine and to apply to the court for the repeal of the wrong or unlawful resolution of the Polish Łowicki Union. The project organizes mutual relations between the bodies of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The bill also provides for changes in the scope of judicial review in matters of acquisition and loss of membership of the Polish Łowiecki Union, the loss of membership of the circles and the related disciplinary penalties, which are foreseen for a member of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The changes are due to the divergence of case law that has arisen under the existing law. The project provides that all lease agreements in force on the date of entry into force will remain in force until the date of expiry of the division of voivodships into hunting circuits made before the date of entry into force of the Act. During the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we introduced the principle that priority in the acceptance into the hunting circle, as Anna Paluch said earlier, has a member of the Polish Hunting Union residing in the area where the hunting region is leased, unless at least 50% members of a given circle shall be persons resident in that hunting area. Hunters living in the hunting area, including farmers above all, should have priority in the reception in the area where they have their land, where there are mainly hunting damage. Local hunters perform the tasks of the hunting economy more effectively than others. One of the main amendments introduced during the work of the subcommittee is the proposal for a completely new compensation mechanism. An assessment of the damage will be carried out by a team consisting of a representative of the executive body of the municipality's auxiliary unit, a representative of the tenant or a manager of the hunting circuit and a farmer. In the event of objections to the findings of the team made during the assessment of the injury, the member of the team will be able to raise these objections and to appeal to the relevant forward-looking party. The State Forestry Farm will conduct proceedings and determine the amount of compensation by means of a final actionable court. This solution satisfies everyone, gives additional administrative burden to the State Forest Forests. A particularly important change expected by the crowds of hunters, farmers and inhabitants of hunting grounds is that as of 1 April this year. from the authorities of the Polish Łowiecki Union, including hunting circles, officers of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic will be eliminated. We've been waiting 27 years for this. Thanks to our determination - the present government - justice and security return. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in print No 2234 on amending the Law on Hunting and certain other laws, the original draft was print No 1042. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I make 11 amendments. The amendments now being tabled aim to take into account the demands of the social side, agricultural chambers and farmers, and to eliminate the doubts raised during the joint work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. I'm handing these amendments over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u266	Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u267	Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to refer in one sentence to... I expected the Law and Justice to make amendments to this project because the entire process cycle, as indicated by President Paluch, had long been over a year ago. We therefore expected that there would be further changes to this legislation, and I regret, Mr Gosievski, that you did not discuss these amendments, because perhaps I could give up part of my speech, and so I will argue with you. High Izbo! This project was proceded for a long time, with long breaks, without appointment of subcommittee meetings, in the final phase quite quickly, but in an incredible mess, with constant changes. Madam President, when she presented the report, she talked about the number of changes that had been withdrawn, the amendment changed the amendment, and during the process we even found it difficult to make further amendments, because the Legislative Office had already lost its way in all of this. There is a bit of a strange situation at all, because this is a government project which was prepared by Minister Jan Szyszka and is submitted and processed by Minister Kowalczyk. There will probably be questions about whether the Minister supports these changes or whether he has included his intentions, other solutions in the proposed amendments. I would like to start by saying that Hunting Law is a very specific legal act because it establishes an organization that acts like an association, but a privileged association, because it has a law. I remember when we tried Hunting Law and Mrs Krysia, who is already retired, worked for many, many years in the secretariat of the Environment Committee, she asked me as an Member who was quite ambitious about the amendment, attention: Mr. - I heard - as I have been working here for 40 years, nobody has won with hunters in this Seym yet. This is the operative part, it can be told in the form of an anecdote, which is undoubtedly reflected in what is contained in the report, because this report, this amendment contains many things agreed by the Polish Hunting Union, is written under the dictation of hunters - at least that was the case during the office of the previous minister. This is evidently reflected in this. High Izbo! The amendment of this law is necessary because the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment first of all alleged that it lacked protection of property rights. Unfortunately, this project does not fully meet the expectations of landowners, which can be included in the distribution of hunting circuits. The solution of making a declaration in the form of a notarial act is some progress, but it must not be linked to the loss of the right to compensation in the event of hunting damages on this ground. This is a kind of blackmail that cannot be accepted. 'Cause isn't this game of prey, the wild boars that are going to get hurt by a farmer who's going to make a statement about disabling his field from the perimeter, state? He doesn't invite them there. Consequently, he cannot lose his right because of the incorrect statutory provision, the privilege of paying him compensation. In general, the compensation system here so praised by my predecessors leaves much to be desired. I immediately announce that on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a set of amendments to the amendment concerning a completely different compensation system for hunting damages. High Izbo! This bill does not meet the expectations of the social side at all. I am very surprised that Law and Justice insist so strongly, although it seems to me that a little under pressure from the Polish Hunting Union. Here this convergence is extremely important - it shows that we, parliamentarians, stand in a losing position in relation to the Polish Hunting Union. For me, this is for unknown reasons, because we should take into account the demands of the social side and address these demands in a very concrete way. They do not require any special commitment from hunters, and they will certainly influence the increase in hunting culture itself - that's what I would call it. One of the biggest scandals that have happened recently in this House is the adoption of provisions that allow a hunter to apply for the punishment of people who, seemingly hindering hunting, can actually be in the immediate vicinity of hunters. I want to paraphrase it a little bit. A hunter, wearing a shotgun on his shoulder, is already hunting, and therefore in any situation, when he meets a fungal or walker on his path, there may be a conflict situation. High Izbo, this is a really serious problem. You are saying that in this project you have liberalised this provision that this will apply to collective hunting. Never mind. If there's a gate in the project, then statistically, there's gonna be a bunch of 120,000 hunters who'll be using it. There will be very drastic cases of abuse of this rule and conflict situations in which Poles, facing an armed hunter, will be in a lost position. It is therefore necessary to delete this provision from the draft amendment. Besides, I think that the record that was introduced on the occasion of the anti-AFS special was a kind of gift for Minister Jan Szyszka to leave. Jan Szyszko slightly agreed to the request of the Polish Hunting Union, hunters who wanted such a recipe to be there. We are absolutely fighting to delete this record. In view of the fact that the project was being tried under such scandalous conditions, I would like to make a motion, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, in particular in view of the unacceptableness of this project, for the Marshal to reject this project at second reading. In addition, we make 12 amendments that fully exhaust the expectations of the social side and are expected by society. The point is to delete the provision I mentioned that would allow punishment for obstructing or preventing hunting. This record is in breach of Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 Law on forests, which provides that forests owned by the State Treasury are made available to the public, and art. 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that everyone is granted freedom of movement on the territory of the Republic of Poland. I remember when in the election campaign Law and Justice accused the Civic Platform that we wanted to privatize the forests. That's a terrible lie. This country, using hunters, will now restrict Poles' access to forests. We can't agree on that. In the second amendment, we would like to introduce a ban on the use of live animals in hunting dog training. This is an extremely important record. The articles that talk about animal abuse argue with the provisions of the Animal Protection Act. Training hunting dogs with a fox or a watchman is bullying these animals. There can be no such regulation. In response to social expectations, we propose, first and foremost, that children be banned from hunting. As I have limited time, I will not develop this subject, but this is absolutely necessary. Law and Justice wants someone to do the right thing. Who? It's hard for me to judge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe the government, the hunter...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u269	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u270	...but certainly not Poland and not Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u271	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mrs Eva... Excuse me, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15. There isn't any either. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u272	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The law that's trying to push the PIS through today is arguing with 80% of the views. Poles and Poles. These are the results of the 2016 CBOS, i.e. quite reliable. This right, most people just don't want it. Once again, you're making recipes for yourself and your own. Where did this white-red team go, and what happened that the government didn't listen to its citizens? This project you ignore people and agree to inhumane treatment of animals. The aim of the opposition and the social side amendments, which you have not heard - what Mrs Paluch said, is not true, you have only listened to your friends and your friends and your hunters - the aim of the amendments was to increase the safety of people and guarantee effective nature conservation in Poland. There are about 130 thousand in Poland. hunters, which include about 300,000. weapons, and there is still no requirement for regular medical examinations - regular, because of course there are one-off tests at the beginning - assessing physical and mental condition. There are no regular tests. There are no reasonable arguments against such a requirement. Nevertheless, the amendment was not supported by the vast majority of Members on the committee, or members of the governing party. Don't you care about the safety of Poles? [[Go get tested.]] You know I'm well tested, sir. You also did not agree to the ban on the use of lead ammunition, although about 600 t of lead per year stays in Polish soil. [[Because countries are already retreating from this failed recipe.]] Modernly produced hunting weapons are adapted to steel buckshot, in the case of the old one just change the knob in the barrel. Bismuth is also a good alternative. We are the last of the three countries in the European Union, alongside Malta and Cyprus, which have no regulations limiting or prohibiting the use of lead, i.e. this change is possible, only the need for goodwill that you do not show. And yet you hunters should care about unpoisoned game because your families most often eat this meat. We were waiting for the Ministry's amendment to the absurd ban on entering the forest during hunting. She's not here. Today, Poles are scared of guns and chasing them from walking areas. It can't be that families with children are staring into the eye with armed hunters, which happened recently in Kashubach. At the same time, you did not allow the introduction of rules that would make it much easier to inform the public about these hunts, so you rejected our and the social amendment on public hunting records. We are still in a situation where a small proportion of citizens associated with the Polish Hunting Union have more rights in public space than the rest of society. A step in the right direction, but completely inadequate is the regulation of firing in national parks. Hunting in national parks will be possible after each authorisation from the park manager or regional environmental director. When it comes to the impact on the Polish Hunting Union, we have just another example of politicising the organization, which PiS has been doing since the beginning of its governments with great commitment, i.e. taking over other organizations. In view of the proceding of this project, this will not entail any positive changes which would give the public greater insight into the hunting economy, for example by requiring a strategic environmental impact assessment of multiannual hunting plans. According to the amendments adopted, the Minister will approve the statute of the Polish Łowiecki Union, will appoint the board of the union and the hunter's national of three candidates presented by hunters, i.e. you are simply taking over this organization. Only one amendment was introduced, which was partly in line with the amendment tabled by the opposition. It concerns the exclusion of own land from the hunting circuit on the basis of a notarial statement of will, while not being able to claim compensation for hunting damages. Another dramatic activity, which you still allow, is the training of predatory birds and hunting dogs on live animals and in competitions in so-called. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: Animals are hunted, threatened, wounded and killed during such trainings and competitions. Such procedures are contrary to the Animal Protection Act, cruel and unnecessary and have long been in need of repair. In your opinion, tradition is an excuse for this kind of activity. And now a quote from an expert, a longtime member of the Polish Łowiecki Union: When considering hunting from the ethical point of view, I believe that killing animals for entertainment alone is unworthy of a civilized man. I have a handful of hunters' memories of different, even great authors and all of them disgusting with their hypocrisy and cruelty. They're deluded, because gentlemen pretend to love nature, and animals especially, and cruelty, because after delights: what a beautiful and strong scene always follows the murder of an innocent victim. I am absolutely against killing as entertainment in a poetic circle of hunting myths. That's what she said, ladies and gentlemen, in 1987, at the opening of the exhibition "The Year of the Fighter" Simon Kossak. [[Who's that?]] Forest professor, daughter and granddaughter of hunt painters. I highly recommend the book about Simona Kossak's life. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the 20th century, and the 21st century and the world is changing, but somehow you don't notice. Hunting should be a service, not a tool of cruel fun, and the state in these regulations increased the privileges of hunters, you took over organizations. Bravo. [[Member, the project needs to be read.]] Although many hunters really wanted positive changes, many hunters wisely looked at the Polish Hunter Union, the state of these wise changes you did not make. We were very hoping for a compromise in the work on Hunting Law, civilising this law, reconciling the parties: hunters, foresters, farmers, environmentalists, residents. Unfortunately, Minister of Environment Mr. Kowalczyk... The ghost of Jan Szyszko, who sucked hunting out of his mother's milk, hoveres over the Minister every second. Where's the compromise, Minister? I understand the Minister isn't sitting here, but I hope... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Sorry, I didn't see you there. [[He's sitting down, Member. Don't you notice the minister?]] I didn't notice. Excuse me. Then I hope you're listening very carefully. You promised many social groups a change. Forests are a national treasure of Poland and Poles, not a group of 130 thousand. Hunters. Nor are they the property of the state - you specifically, your Members and your Members. The Modern Posel Club will, of course, vote against the project. Thank you very much. [[What was to be expected.]] Yeah, because it's a very bad project, Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u273	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Club PSL - European Democrats' Union, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u274	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The casus of liquidation of self-government in the Polish Łowiecki Union creates a very dangerous precedent, and even a historical moment of cutting of Polish self-government. The PiS government states and destroys one of the oldest Polish self-government, democratic organizations, which was established 5 years after Poland regained independence. You explain that it is a matter of control over an organization acting on behalf of the State Treasury. Can't you really see how dangerous this precedent is? In this way, the self-government of each organisation can be taken away. Today you are a politician, the Polish Hunting Union office, and tomorrow you will go to the Polish Landowners' Union, the Polish Fishing Union, to the Agricultural Chambers. [[The Member's imagination is unlimited.]] By the way, when I asked the Minister if this was the beginning of this road, the Minister did not deny it. An earlier attack on NGOs and independent local authorities is part of this strategy. After 2 years, the government's intentions are clear and clear: it is about assigning and centralizing all independent organisations. The Polish Hunting Union has been in operation for 95 years. He financed himself, the authorities were elected - from the circle - in democratic, secret elections. He chose local authorities, he chose central authorities. Today it will be done from the level of Warsaw. One-man minister of the environment anointed by a party from a self-government and independent organization creates something like a company of the State Treasury, except that it is financed by private contributions from members of this organization. You're arguing that this is about decommunization. Actually, I could applaud it if you start with each other. What's worse? When a former militiaman hunts, or when a prosecutor of martial law reformes the Polish judiciary? And you don't see - or pretend you don't - the problem of future commercialization and privatisation of circuits. Or is that what this is about? It is about taking over the assets of the wheels, expanding the OHZs, and then creating private commercial fisheries on this basis. There is no consent of the Polish People's Party. I will say more: there is no consent of Polish hunters, who are in our country more than 125 thousand. The hunters are determined and warn that they will stop hunting. We also have such signals from hunters and hunters' circles that, on April 1st, when the law enters into force and the obligations of the management of the hunting circles enter into force, as far as the obligations of the circle are concerned, these boards will resign and the firings will cease. What are you gonna do if the hunters hang up their weapons and don't hunt? Let me put it this way: On the one hand, the bill will break up the hunters' and farmers' environment. On the other hand, you make hunters butchers, ordering them to shoot pregnant dungeons. The farmers are mamming that the hunting damage will be civilized, more regulated... that there will be more money. In the meantime, the Minister himself said that you will not add any more gold, and therefore there will be no more money for farmers, and you know that this is the main problem when it comes to payments for hunting damages. This bill is very bad for hunting and agriculture, but poachers are very good for it. You can see that among the members of the PiS - we hear and read about it in the media - there are many poachers... [[But what are you impputing us with, my fellow Member?]] There are also many poachers in Mr. Gowin's political option. Apparently, this law is prepared just to make poaching in Poland very good. [[Please be a little responsible for the words, because we're gonna go to the ethics committee for such insinuations.]] Polish People's Party - there will be a second statement - certainly will not support this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, the PiS state has a unique ability to confront people, confront Poles with Poles, quarrels, and this law is the best proof of this. In previous years very often, in most cases or even everywhere, there was a coexistence of hunters and farmers. After all, we know that most animals live in agricultural areas. We also know that many farmers are hunters, so this cooperation somehow worked. This was the case until you blew up two cases during the election campaign: firstly, the hunting damage case and, secondly, the ASF case. From both of these events You have made an element of your election campaign, seeking the votes of Polish farmers. Notabene time has shown that you have deceived these farmers. What do these two cases look like in this bill? What is the issue of hunting compensation in relation to this law that is now being applied and the law that was applied before you came to power? Well, you haven't changed anything here in favour, on the contrary, you have caused that, at many moments, hunters and hunting circles will be deprived of rational cooperation with farmers, because they will no longer get along with these farmers only directly, and very often this is the estimation of losses, the municipality will be involved. At the same time, no funds are transferred from the state budget, which could lead to the bankruptcy of hunting wheels. and will not pursue any game-gathering policy at all. The compensation should consist in the fact that, since the state budget, the State assumes that the game belongs to the State Treasury, it should also participate in the eradication of this game and the payment of compensation. The State does not wish to involve budget appropriations in this case by transferring all responsibilities to other participants in the process. And let us remember what the announcements were. There were such announcements, there was such a project, even the law in force in this area. Today he's talking about a compensation fund. Notabene as the Polish People's Party we have submitted a draft law establishing a fund for which funds from the budget and funds from hunters will be allocated. We hope that this will be an idea to implement agricultural compensation to the extent that farmers want it to. In this respect, the state in this law of claims or expectations of farmers did not fulfil. The design is terrible in this respect. What about ASF? Since the beginning, Minister Jurgiel has been aiming to find the guilty, not only to see himself in this whole process, the spread of ASF. Today we know that ASF already covers other municipalities, successive districts, has crossed the Vistula border long ago and is more blooming than blooming. [[Who's been waiting two years for a round of applause? Aren't you guys?]] What is the support of hunters in this respect, the support for the fight against African swine fever? There is no action in this regard. There is only one action that you think is effective, that is, the construction of the fence. If someone has some orientation, they know how to spread wild boars, how they pass through, how they migrate, they also know perfectly well that this fence will not be effective at all. The spread of ASF is not responsible for the district veterinarians, as Minister Jurgel pointed out, they are not responsible for farmers, nor are they responsible for hunting wheels. [[Voice from the room: Only PSL.]] The department of agriculture and its services are responsible. On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I want to make it clear that in terms of meeting the expectations of Polish farmers this law does not bring anything, it neither causes fair compensation, correct estimate of compensation, nor obtain appropriate funds by farmers. This law will not, to the slightest extent, contribute to the eradication of African swine fever, if we consider - and indeed everyone in this regard agrees - that wild boar is indeed a vector carrying African swine fever. So in this respect, you don't realize... This law on the part of Polish farmers - and so it is - should be subjected to serious criticism and we, as a club, are already expressing this criticism and expressing it also in the vote. This bill is wrong, it doesn't meet expectations. For this reason, our club makes a number of amendments which, although to a small extent, will meet the expectations of Polish farmers, so that these two biggest aspects of the hunters' and farmers' efforts, namely compensation and the fight against African swine fever, are resolved so that Polish farmers are at least a little satisfied. This law - once again I will stress - absolutely does not meet their expectations, does not deserve to be supported, and as we have seen and heard in the statements of representatives of previous clubs, it also does not meet the expectations of other environments and is really suitable for basketball. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u277	Thank you very much. Nine ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. First, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister's promises to improve the Hunting Law that we are now working on proved empty. Hunters gain more and more rights at the expense of animals and inhabitants. I wanted to ask you why you didn't agree to ban children from hunting. It's not supposed to be children's entertainment, it's just... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Margaret Navel...]] I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u279	We gotta go, then you're gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u280	It shouldn't be children's entertainment, because there are drastic scenes. [[This isn't entertainment.]] Allowing children to participate in hunting is teaching them from the early years of cruelty against animals that suffer, and indifference to the fate of animals. It's the law you want to push through, it's the praise of killing animals and treating them like things. This bill is so bad, it has to be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u281	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Can you not see that the possibility of hunting within 150 m of buildings poses a threat to human life and health? What else? The proposed compensation fund disappears and material liability in the event of non-payment of compensation is transferred to a hunting union. This is on the one hand an attempt on the money of the Polish Hunting Union, and on the other hand forcing farmers to fight for the money they deserve, which should come from the state budget. After all, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that the State Treasury was responsible for the damage caused to crops by wild animals. Farmers who do not want hunters in their fields will be able to ban hunting notarically. But something for something - in return they will not be able to claim compensation for damaged by [[♪ The bell ♪]] the game of cultivation. How's it look? Like blackmail on farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u283	Thank you, Member. Now Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u284	Does the PiS state believe... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that such solutions are fair to farmers and hunters? You've already lost your way in this good change, supposedly a good change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u285	Thank you very much, Member. As usual, you're out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice in the election campaign promised farmers to settle the issue of compensation for hunting damages. During the work on this project, it was clear how much you meet the expectations of farmers. Most of the organizations that took part in the project process expressed their opinion were unhappy, even the media showed the level of dissatisfaction. The Civic Platform in the package of amendments that it has tabled for this project follows your promises made in the election campaign because we are transferring the compensation burden to the State Treasury. Only the State Treasury can pay fair, equivalent compensation, as expected, according to estimated losses incurred by farmers and made by animals belonging to the State Treasury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Support this amendment and farmers will be pleased. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u287	Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years, the subject of hunting damage in agricultural crops has aroused emotions. The amount of compensation paid by hunting wheels has repeatedly not been adequate for farmers' losses. In view of the above, Minister, I would like to ask whether there is an option being examined in the Ministry in the event that the hunters, hunters, have failed to cope financially with the payment of compensation for damage to agricultural crops by hunting animals. Do you have any idea how to support hunters through, I don't know, some funding when it comes to paying? [[♪ The bell ♪]] those compensations for hunting damages in agricultural crops? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u289	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! What is happening in our Parliament with the Hunting Law is the highest rank of mockery, lack of seriousness and respect in relation to the importance of influence in our country of this legal act. As it turns out, you are only interested in the influence of power, let's say, whether in hunting circles or in the highest hunting authorities. Where's the truth? The truth is that the owner, the Treasury, does not want to cover or co-cover the costs associated with the hunting damage which naturally must occur and will occur. I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the foreman should count the trees in the woods and not deal with matters relating to appeal. It's unthinkable for that to happen. What I'm saying is that since you say you don't have any money, you're gonna run away from the honey flies. There has to be money, or this problem won't be solved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's why there's a lack of seriousness about this piece of legislation, an important piece of legislation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u291	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, a club of European Democrats, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u292	Dear Marshal, Before I ask a question, I wanted to correct your statement: the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats. I don't think it was mean, because it would be an extraordinary shame if the marshal were so mean. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I ask you to call the parliamentary club precisely. I have a few questions. First of all, Minister, as to the estimation itself, I would like to ask who will pay for the additional work carried out by the chiefs or representatives of the municipalities. 2.5 thousands. Municipalities, approx. 100 and 120 thousand. estimations a year, except for appeals, are quite high costs. Who will also pay for the commuting of people who will estimate and who will be posted from the municipality? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is: How effective will it be to regulate the effectiveness of the exclusion from the hunting land circuit if it is to be effective 2 days after the declaration is made? Technically, it's practically impossible... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to make it work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u293	Thank you, Member, thank you very much. Mr Edward Sularka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, in this discussion, which we are leading to on the revision of the Hunting Law, the most difficult element is the identification of issues related to hunting damage. This has been a problem for years, especially at the interface between hunters and farmers, because it is the natural desire of every host to obtain the greatest compensation for their crops. It's perfectly normal. [[It's not normal.]] My question is: How can we avoid the extreme bureaucracy of this whole process of seeking compensation? In practice, I know what it looks like. Namely, often farmers called literally at the last minute to make an estimate, because in 2 days, let's say, they were going to make harvests. Will this whole process of estimation by the municipality not lead to an extension of all these deadlines and additional conflicts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a Member of Koszalin soil. As you know, we have a lot of forest areas. There's a lot of game in our woods. Koszalin's land is also agricultural land. They're checking in with me at the Parliamentary Office, and they're asking for help to claim the farmers. They mean what they show in the videos recorded using drones, what Ms. Agnieszka Curyl from Tychów showed me, which is damage caused by forest game. And my question: Can't there be consensus between farmers and the Polish Hunter Union that there should be no problems so that they have no grudges with each other? All it takes is good will. Thank you. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u297	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u298	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Question: "Will you consider in the future the complete decommunization of the authorities of the Polish Hunting Union, also eliminating secret co-workers?" Those undercover co-workers were more dangerous than officers. [[Voice from the room: Start with each other.]] We didn't know who it was, and they were passing on the information they had received at the meetings. [[Collaborators.]] Then they were all persecuted for it. Therefore, once again, I would very much like to ask you to consider this issue in the future. It is about the complete decommunization of the authorities of the Polish Łowiecki Union, also eliminating secret co-workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u299	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Now I ask the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Minister, hope for you.]] Hunting law, which results from these voices in the Chamber, is a law that tries to reconcile fire with water, which is very difficult. She is trying to reconcile the interests of hunters, which was now very clearly visible, represented by Mrs Pasławska, who said that we are attacking democracy, and the interests of farmers who are demanding more control over the Polish Łowiecki Union, in order to eliminate it as a state in the country. There are other social environments that you are referring to... [[Lieder.]] ...Mrs Lieder, who says 80% He's got opinions. Of course, it depends on who means what, what social environments. You can always say yes: let's ban the hunt at all, only then... [[This is a CBOS study.]] That's right, you see the Member. If we'd banned the hunt completely, the problem of agricultural damage would have escalated instantly. So it is true that probably this law, this long-term compromise, will not be a form of happiness for either party. I guess that's the compromise. On the other hand, as regards the specific issues that we are trying to resolve in this law - I stress once again: we are trying, because as there are conflicting interests, there are probably no ideal solutions - this compromise that we want to propose was developed in many discussions with different environments. Of course, I am referring mainly to the environment of environmental organisations, the hunters' environment and the farmers' environment, because these three sides are, as it were, the most important. It is known that these interests are contradictory. Of course, it would be beautiful if there was a coexistence between farmers and hunters, but it is not. If it were so good, farmers would not complain about the current compensation system and complain very much. [[Why?]] And because in the current system, the hunter estimates the damage and pays. [[Exactly.]] So naturally she's a judge in her own pond. A farmer who has nothing to say can't really be happy. We propose here a solution, an intermediate solution. Mr Maliszewski proposes that farmers with hunters should go home. And very well, when they do, no third party will enter. [[But why should they agree?]] But there is a peacemaker, that is, a person posted by the municipality or executive body of the auxiliary unit, or the council, in short. So there's this person. We're proposing a peacemaker on this matter. And, of course, at a time when some party will still be unhappy, there is an appeal institution: the front line. With the farmhouse, in turn, to keep it balanced. Of course, you can come up with completely different ways, but these are fairly simple, little bureaucratic, efficient. We must also bear in mind that the assessment of damage should take place in an immediate manner, not in such a way as to wait a few weeks... [[And professionally.]] ...and professionally. I totally agree with that. So this is certainly a big step towards reconciling these two conflicting interests. Another issue that has been raised is the assassination of democracy. On the other hand, there is an accusation that we represent the hunting lobby here, strengthen the hunters, don't count on the community, etc. So I would suggest that you establish a common position, because these two are very extreme, and we propose a solution somewhere in the middle, which is indeed that we are yielding to the hunters' lobby, but we are also aware that the Polish Hunter Union was out of control and we want to introduce this control, as far as possible, without disturbing... [[And that's okay.]] ...to the extent possible, yes, without prejudice to the principles of democratic choice. But what has this democracy been like for the last 27 years, already in free Poland? We have such cases that hunters from hunting circles come and ask almost, appeal to break this shell, this concrete, this hat of the Polish Hunting Union, because at the moment they are even hunters who pay contributions, do not know what this money is going for, and they do not have the opportunity to find out. So it's kind of like going out to meet the expectations of these crowds of hunters who really want to democratically. control the money... [[You want it, not the hunters.]] ...which they make up. And, of course, that will give them the opportunity, and so far they haven't had the opportunity. Although, theoretically, this organization was democratic, somehow it was strange that this democracy did not function because the system of choice... [[And in PiS, I think the president's always the same.]] Yes. ...it was the president who appointed the council, the district hunters, and the district hunters elected the president. Plus, it was the perpetuum mobile that was spinning. For 27 years. We want to... [[Financial sanctions for hunters, that's all.]] ...find out and reach out to the hunters, a helping hand, so that they have a tool for democratic cleansing. That's what I'm gonna say. With regard to damage, the amount of hunting damage and the involvement of the state budget, I would say this: 8 years, you could have introduced compensation from the state budget and not discussed. Well, that's reality. If it's not left It's done... [[We voted together, sir.]] Only someone else had the money. If it's not left done, we are now proposing to keep this system, which is, that hunters pay compensation, even if they are motivated to carry out hunting plans, because when they do not pay compensation, it will not be any motivation, and then it will actually be just entertainment, and I would like to stress that I hope... [[This is not entertainment, Minister. Don't say that.]] No, but I'm saying it would just be fun. Hunting is not entertainment, and I would like to emphasise that. They're doing a job, pursuing a policy... [[Countries.]] ...in the management of game resources and also... [[Balance.]] ...take care of the balance. So this isn't entertainment. I think no hunter kills for entertainment. Just so we're clear. But because we don't really know what kind of money the Polish Hunter Union has - we don't know and hunters don't know either - let this solution, which is currently being proposed, function. When it turns out that by changing the way of estimating the hunting damages of this money in the Polish Hunting Union in a significant way will be lacking, then we can consider the support from the state budget. But if we don't know it yet, because we don't know how many of these damage funds are paid and how many Polish Hunter Union... [[We do.]] ...has financial resources, for example, from the sale of game, even from hunting rights, we can actually only estimate the money that comes from contributions. We can estimate that, but we really don't know the rest. Therefore, we will see how we will have an insight into finance - and that is what this supervision of the Polish Łowiecki Union is for - whether these funds are really missing or not. If it is missing, we do not rule out that compensation for farmers will be financed by the State Treasury. Of course, because the clubs recommend rejecting the project in its entirety, I'll be honest with you, I'm surprised, but that's another matter. After all, we have a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal and this law is implementing this judgment, so declaring at this point that we do not like this law and we are going to throw it away is at least strange, but of course opposition clubs have the right to do so, and I will not respond here or encourage you to vote for it. You can't force yourself to convince anybody. Several responses to such comments in more detail. What about lead - a highly raised matter - when it comes to using it for hunting? There was also a question about other countries. So some countries banned the use of lead and withdrew. Great Britain... [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] ...whether Norway has resigned from the ban on the use of lead, and this is primarily because lead is not ammo, which unduly causes ricochets, while steel bullets do, and that only and only safety reasons indicate that the use of lead in this case makes sense. Talking about the amount of lead in the environment, etc. is, of course, an exaggeration. [[These are facts.]] On the other hand... Further questions are more specific. Please? [[It's specific research.]] This is always the case, of course we consume lead in many agricultural products, because cars drive, lead emits, absorption of lead is excellent, and this is without comparison to what it is. It's not like anybody eats lead bullets, so this is really a thing that's very bright right now. As I stressed, this law is an attempt to find a compromise and among others. In connection with further discussions on the solutions set out in this law, the proposal was postponed for another 2 weeks and the second reading, the committee report, was not held at the previous session of the Sejm, in order to allow time for discussions. And these discussions took place both with the farmers' environment and with the social environment, as you call it, with the hunters' environment. Some solutions are being proposed, and I think tomorrow... The set of amendments clearly shows that this is not a closed matter, so I would not like to address all the solutions proposed by the clubs, because I have not yet had a chance to get to know them, but, as I stress, the case is not closed and the project has been discussed. Tomorrow, at the committee's opinion on these amendments, there will probably be some new solutions to improve this project. On the other hand, I think that - this concerns the first statement, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the PO, about introducing a ban on hunting for children - there will probably be a debate at the committee meeting tomorrow. [[Kids don't hunt.]] Excuse me, in front of the kids. Another thing: Małgorzata Płępek from the PO spoke about the assassination of the money of the Polish Hunting Union. We don't want to do any assassination, we don't want to take anybody's money, but we want to know what it's spent on. This is really what hunters who pay their contributions are asking for, Commissioner. [[That's right, that's right.]] That's really the way it is, so there won't be any money-gathering, but let's give the tool to those who pay their contributions to see what this money is spent on. Mr Paweł Suski talked about compensation so that the burden of compensation would go to the Treasury. Like I said, if this money isn't enough, we're going to consider it, but first we need to figure out how much of this money is, how these compensations are implemented. I think that the same question, very similar, was asked by Mr Piotr Polak, who also spoke about the possibility of supporting payments for hunting damages from the Treasury. Mr Ajchler said that the Treasury does not want to cover the costs. I think it's related to my previous statement, and that money has to be found. Yes, I believe that money for farmers must be found, but let's see how much money there is in the Polish Hunting Union. As for the concern about the municipalities, as Mrs Pasławska asked... [[Who's gonna pay?]] Yes, indeed, it is an obligation. There are mediations with municipalities on support. [[The municipalities don't know anything, Minister.]] They know, they know, because the joint committee is working on it, and just as there are certain responsibilities that the municipalities are doing... Among other things, they did not receive specially dedicated funds from a targeted grant, e.g. the appointment of a committee and the work of a committee appointed by the voivode at the time of assessing the damage caused by natural disasters. And that's what the municipalities do. This is sometimes very difficult to evaluate, but this is included in the general discussion on... [[But these are incidents, and here we have...]] They're not accidental, because it's been very common lately. It's a very common phenomenon, and it's very difficult to value damage, because then it covers the whole area. Mr Stefan Romecki of the Kukiz club15 asked whether farmers and hunters could not agree. Of course, I would very much like them to get along, and I hope that such opportunities are, i.e. both the representative of the hunting circle and the farmer will estimate the damage. I think that if there's a settlement there, then the community representative will not have to go in, but we also give the Peacekeeper, which is who would decide when the opinions will be divergent. As for further decommunization, which is a continuation, I would totally agree with Mr Gosiewski that she should go further, but we were looking at the real possibility and efficiency of IPN, because not art to write, art to enforce it and to make it work... [[They're already dead.]] [[They live and enjoy good health.]] Well, well, well! So this is the record that can be checked efficiently and quickly, while at the time when we have this further issue, i.e. concerning TW, IPN did not undertake to check the number of statements in a mode that would allow verification and holding elections. [[Decommunise Peterovich.]] Hence, with pain of heart, I take it that we were forced to limit ourselves to this so that it would be effective and not just written on paper. [[Start with you, Minister.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u301	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u302	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u303	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the course of the discussion on the Law, a hunting representative of the PO proposed an amendment to the ban on collective hunting, it justified the argument that this type of hunting could contribute to the spread of the ASF. It is a return to a very absurd and harmful thesis presented in 2014 by the government of PO and PSL, which is at the root of banning wild boars from being shot at a critical time after the outbreak of the plague in Poland. According to this thesis, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development then proclaimed: hunting has never significantly reduced the population of wild boars in Europe. Action to significantly reduce the wild boar population may lead to the adaptation of wild boars and the increase in compensation of their population through influx from adjacent areas, e.g. from Belarus, increase their fertility and generally increase the risk of ASF spreading. This position was based, among others. in the 2014 EFSA report, Time and experience have shown how much it was a mistake, but some are still missing. In Germany and the Czech Republic, the countries at risk of spreading ASF have already decided to conduct collective hunting and depopulation of wild boars. Apparently, they treat the wrong thesis as they should, or they throw it in the trash. When will the PO finally abandon absurd claims about the harmfulness of mass wild boars in the context of the fight against ASF? What is the government's position on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u305	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Juliusz Lea, President of the City of Krakow in the 100th anniversary of his death. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws (Print No 2216). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. This proposal provides for amendments to the Civil Code Act, the Act of 9 April 2010 on the provision of economic information and the exchange of economic data, as regards limitation institutions, and the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration and the Act of 17 November 1964 on Civil Procedure. Amendments to the Civil Code Act. The first group concerns the principle of limitation of claims against consumers. The proposal provides that the statute of limitations on businesses' claims to consumers will result, by law, and not as a result of the consumer's complaint, in the form of the impossibility of effective redress. According to Art. 117 The Civil Code may, after considering the interests of both parties, fail to take into account the expiry of the limitation period for a claim against the consumer if the grounds of fairness so require. In exercising that right, the court should consider, in particular, the length of the limitation period, the length of the period from the expiry of the limitation period to the time of the claim, the nature of the circumstances which led to the failure of the entitled party to claim, including the impact of the behaviour of the obliged party on the delay in the recovery of the claim. The second group is to shorten the basic limitation periods. The proposal proposes a shorter general limitation period for claims - i.e. 6 years instead of the previous 10 years - while leaving the regulation that for interim and business claims the limitation period is 3 years. Thirdly, the method of calculating the expiry of the limitation period is changed, because in the proposed article. 118 The Civil Code provides that the limitation period shall end on the last day of the calendar year. Fourthly and lastly, as regards amendments to the Civil Code, we have a proposal to amend the provision of the Article. 568 § 2 The Civil Code, which will lead to the fact that in the case of the sale of used movable goods and the shortening by the parties of the warranty period the claims with the warranty will not be valid before the expiry of 2 years after the issue of the goods. The amendment to the Act on the provision of economic information and the exchange of economic data is a resultant one, with a reduction in the limitation period - from 10 years to 6 years. The amendments to the Enforcement Act in the Administration and the Civil Procedure Code are designed to ensure that the bank transfers the funds from the seized account to the bank account of the enforcement authority immediately after 7 days from the date of notification of the occupation. However, in the event of judicial execution of current maintenance or rent, the bank would transfer funds from the account seized to the bank account of the bailiff without delay. The last group of provisions are inter-temporal and introductory provisions. It is proposed to introduce a rule on the application of a new right to limitation of claims arising before the entry into force of the Act. Exceptions are provided for from this principle. The amended provisions are also intended to apply to enforcement proceedings pending on the date of entry into force of the Law. It is also proposed that the law should enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. This is in the most general outline of the content of the presented project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u307	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this law - perhaps not an interest in the Chamber - is a really very important law, and I would even call it a kind of package for the consumer. In many cases, with such practical knowledge from experience, from the practice of legal counsel, I know that many such cases, such as the enforcement of pre-emptive claims against the consumer, are everyday realities. There are a lot of examples of this. What does that tell you? It follows, ladies and gentlemen, that all legal orders are essentially based on the principle of ignorance and uris noket, i.e. ignorance of the law harms every citizen, including consumers, those who are not necessarily engaged in a business or professional activity related to the law, is required to know the law or to commit themselves to the knowledge of the law. This means that, in many cases, they are not able to know all the means of law that apply to them, for example, arising from contracts concluded on a daily basis in ordinary current cases. This is of course the issue of limitation, because in most cases for the consumer the expiry of the limitation period is most often information, that is most often a message indicating that the creditor cannot claim that the creditor can no longer satisfy himself in court. Such passiveness in judicial proceedings results in dramatic consequences of the fact that the absence of a limitation charge in legal proceedings causes the charge, although the limitation period has expired, to be ordered. This change is absolutely necessary. Indeed, the consumer in our legal system must know the rules, but wherever we can simplify them, wherever we can strengthen this weaker side, it is worth doing so, and it is precisely taking into account the limitation of the law as it were in the course of the proceedings, that is a great direction, in the right direction. Of course, it is important and useful to reduce the limitation period for these basic claims from 10 to 6 years. Indeed, this 10-year period is too long, holding too long in uncertainty the actual existence of a legal relationship and the actual existence of an obligation. Ten years, a decade is really a lot. Compared to periodic claims or business claims, that's what more than three times more, and there seems to be no greater justification for it. Thus, 6 years is indeed a sufficient period to arrange these relationships to claim claims, to seek the debts that arise from the relationships in question. Absolutely acceptable and appropriate are also those solutions which indicate that exceptions may be made from this principle, i.e. situations can happen - and we certainly know them too - in which the expiry of the limitation period is premeditatedly used, it is used in such a way that e.g. the difficult possibilities of investigation or obstruction of investigation result in the expiry of that period. Indeed, we should have an answer to these situations, because in every legal solution we should aim to approach - of course this is probably impossible - where possible, to bring justice, to make laws or later facts on the basis of those rules that are consistent with the principle of justice, with a sense of justice. Leaving this kind of solution, that in some cases this statute of limitations or the expiry of the limitation period may not be covered, is absolutely right, because life writes many scenarios and we wish that such a gateway in exceptional situations, in situations of exceptional harm, in this case creditors just the expiry of the limitation period, did not have as much burden as the transformation of a legal obligation into a natural one. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to give my full approval to this law and ask for further work at the next stages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u309	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws, print no. 2216. I agree with the previous speaker: a legal act is very important which determines the position of the parties, legal relations. This must also be agreed with. In everyday life, the action of time is of great importance, its passage is felt and recognized. It is even said that the power of time cannot be countered by anyone, no one can resist the power of time. It's said that time is even the eater of everything. In the area of law, especially civil law, the role of the passage of time is very great, although undoubtedly smaller than in everyday life. The passing of time or the passing of time, together with other events under law, including civil law, has certain legal effects, but these legal effects are only triggered if the law so provides. In many situations, however, the importance of time is particularly important in situations where the passage of time affects subjective rights. These situations are covered by the collective name of the limitation of the meaning of largo, in the broad sense of the word, or referred to as the past. As part of the depreciating effect of the passage of time, the central place is the statute of limitations of strict meaning, which is among others. the subject matter of the legislative act under discussion. The statute of limitations is devoted to a lot of literature, not just to lawyers. Among the statements are opinions and assessments which are not very flattering for the institution concerned, sometimes even negative or even disqualifying the statute of limitations as such, especially if we evaluate the statute of limitations from an ethical point of view. The statute of limitations at least impedes, and in some cases even prevents, the entitled person from seeking a claim from the competent authorities. The holder who raises a limitation charge may not claim his rights as a result of the passage of time. This is only the case if the law indicates a certain period of time and indicates the specific effects of this passage of time. In this way, the State, by means of certain rules, refuses to protect the rightholder and thereby violates the principle of protection of personal rights. At this point in time, the law stands on the part of the obliged person who does not exercise his legal obligations, and therefore the law at this point grants an unreliable, unreliable, disregardful person's obligations and the principles of the legal order in force. However, it would be wrong to claim that the statute of limitations can only be said in the negative sense that the opinion on limitation can only be reduced to its negative assessments. If this were the case, the statute of limitations would in principle not be present in any legal system. It is present. The element that indicates the validity of the limitation in the legal system is, first and foremost, that the claim usually takes place after a longer period of time from the time when the claim could have been sought. Today, this exchange of thoughts, information is getting more intense. The time between the submission of statements and the adoption of certain statements is rapidly shrinking. In addition, there are difficulties in evidence, sometimes witnesses die, sometimes witnesses fail to remember, and sometimes documents die. For these reasons, the presence in the law of such an institution as the statute of limitations is also necessary, but the regulation of limitation as such should reconcile the conflicting interests of those concerned, so the statute of limitations should try to reconcile the interests of the obliged person and the interests of the entitled person. Does the proposed act meet the interests of two parties to the legal relationship? I may have doubts, but here I would expect the Minister to make a clear and precise statement of the logic or justification for the proposed changes, as I have observed the changes made by the ruling majority for two years, also observing changes in terms of taking into account the effects of the passage of time on the law, sometimes I note that these changes are of a random nature. Once, as is necessary, we extend, today we are talking about shortening limitation periods. It seems to me that a lawyer should use a certain logic to create codes, so in the case of this change of law, if we assume that he is needed, it should be logical. As regards the proposed amendments, they concern inter alia. shortening the basic limitation period for claims from 10 years to 6 years. Of course, my previous speaker said that this is a sufficient term. I would like to know why the six-year deadline, like the six-year deadline, looks against other systems, which also provide for a limitation institution. I think that when working on a code and amending legislation in this area, it would also be appropriate to take into account the regulations that exist in foreign systems of law. I'm not sure six years is enough. Perhaps the Minister will make sufficient arguments to justify the 6-year deadline. The same is true of the amendment on consumer protection, which is the result of taking into account the effects of ex officio time on consumer claims. Of course, we are returning to the solutions that were present in the 1965 Civil Code. They actually lasted as long as real socialism continued in Poland. It was considered that this rule in the normal system should be amended. Today we propose to return to the rules that were in force almost 30 years ago. Of course, I would not exactly agree with the Minister's statement that this would apply to claims held by traders against consumers. I do not think that such a claim is entitled to the proposed amendment 1 in Article. 1, proposed wording § 2 inserted in Article. 117 after § 2. These problems will be greater, Minister, if we want to find an answer to the question of how the consumer is defined in the article. 22 Civil Code and how is the consumer defined in other regulations, because such situations under civil law take place. The consumer definition does not close only within the scope of Article. 22 Civil Code. My previous speaker also said that the solutions that give the possibility to take account of the expiry of time for claims against the consumer seem to ease the proposed provision of the article. 117, which in exceptional cases makes it possible to derogate from this possibility to take account of the expiry of time if, as the drafter states, the reasons for this are justified. Of course, it is possible to discuss how this protection of subjective law will be implemented, especially if we take into account the provision which indicates the moment of entry into force of this law. In this respect, I think it has to be considered whether the proposed article. 5 of this law should have this wording. However, without closing the discussion and without losing the point of discussing the rules on pastity, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I propose that the project be submitted for further seismic work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u311	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik from the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I wondered whether the limitation period should be shorter or longer. In the club Kukiz we had different opinions on the subject, because in Anglo-Saxon countries such as Ireland, Canada, New Zealand, the United States and the United Kingdom, this limitation period is from 3 to 6 years or 6 years, but already in Austria and Germany it is 30 years, in Greece and the Netherlands - 20 years, in France - 15 years. The question is whether this is the actual limitation period, because on the other hand we know very well that this limitation period can be interrupted. So the next question is whether it is a law a little under the public, or whether it is really going to change something. Let me quote two positions because I have received the position of a scientific worker and the position of a union of entrepreneurs. I'm going to introduce this first position that scared me a little bit personally. In the case of final judgments, the provisions in force so far laid down specific time limits, 10 or 2, after which the debtor could apply to the court for a limitation and he was not able to refuse. That's what she was a few weeks ago, and she's gonna be a law. In the current draft amendment, shortening e.g. the period from 10 years to 6 years, the legislator shall give the creditor the opportunity to challenge the limitation under the pretext of a breach of the social interest. It's the Polish People's Republic, and it's an incredibly sage one. First of all, you can plug everything in under this password. All creditors, i.e. debt collection companies, funds and hell knows who else, in every case, will see the social interest. I have a question about what that principle of right is, because she's like a gum con. Unfortunately, I object because if we accept that the courts will be able to change this limitation period, it is terrifying for me. I also have a second letter, which you probably also received, placed in the boxes, the Association of Polish Entrepreneurs, who refer to this project very critically. It is specifically about transitional provisions that the new law will also cover old periods. So let's just say, if someone made some kind of commitment, e.g. economic operators will be able to deal with the 10-year period. Today it may miss, it will cover it or not, because here there are different rules, also to consumers they are applied differently. I would like to add one more thing, especially with regard to economic operators, which seems very important to me. If the economic operator had a debt and it was statute-barred, nevertheless, e.g. in the United States is in the register of economic information. Why? Because even when assessing creditworthiness in the future, these data are taken into account, they remain. If we take them out And we're just gonna leave them at the Credit Information Office, that's for example. The situation will be that for the second, third or fourth time someone will take a loan and this situation will repeat itself - they will not repay the debt. So many companies will be interested in when their situation improves, so that this debt, despite the limitation period, will be repaid, because in this way they will be removed from this register. So we have two things here because this limitation period will not only apply to consumers, and we focus on the fact that this is a consumer package. No, he will generally deal with all cases and is calculated that in the case of people who practically miss this period or do not apply for an extension, unfortunately their cases will close during the 6-year period. Today, in the current state of law, the court did not have to examine the limitation period, unless it was raised by the procedural party. Now he will do it out of obligation, except that it will not concern - as one of the scientific employees raised - those creditors companies under which these provisions are written. In fact, according to the author of the magazine, it is simply a rubble. So we're gonna leave this project to continue to process, hoping, especially in terms of limitation periods... The transitional provisions are so mixed that I don't think anybody will be able to grasp them, except for specialized lawyers, because some act backwards, the other act forward, and so on a good case the individual consumer will certainly not confess to it, while the recovery company will know everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u313	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Vice-Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To be honest, I would like to stand on this platform and finally say: Minister, this is a good project, we support it. Unfortunately, these words do not concern this project and the Modern requests that it be rejected at first reading. And now why. The justification for the project indicates that the need to mobilise the parties to legal relations to speed up the formation of facts in a way consistent with the legal situation is in favour of shortening the limitation period. It's a great record, isn't it? It just doesn't mean anything. The justification indicates that the shortening of the general limitation period will therefore also serve the stability and certainty of social relations, which is the primary objective of the institutions of limitation. The justification in this regard is simply laconic and unconvincing, it does not point to any rational arguments for such a fundamental change, there is nothing substantive in the round sentences. In the case of the regulation that you propose to reduce the limitation period, this will only work in favour of the debtor, i.e. the person who did not fulfil the benefit despite his obligation. This will not encourage the stability of trade, but will, on the contrary, favour non-performance actors in the framework of commitments made. The designer should make an in-depth assessment of the impact of the regulation. The assessment contained in the explanatory memorandum of the project is short-lived. The solutions contained in the draft to shorten the limitation period constitute a threat to constitutional guarantees, Article. 2 constitutions. The proposed change will affect the rights of creditors as a party to the obligation relationship, as the right to seek and enforce claims will be limited. The finding of a disciplinary effect of shortening the general limitation period should not be overestimated, in particular given the large number of specific provisions. In addition, the solution proposed in the draft law is set out in the second sentence in Article. 118 introduces unnecessary chaos and confusion with regard to the rules for calculating the limitation period. The proposed new provision on the calculation of the limitation period neither facilitates the defence nor constitutes an improvement for creditors. It is worth noting that, according to the draft, the limitation period will expire at the end of the calendar year, which has no justification, is artificial and may cause the real limitation period to be falsified, e.g. where it would end at the beginning of the year and be artificially extended to the end of the year, i.e. almost a year. The unfairness of such a construction also involves making the limitation period conditional on the activities which the parties concerned may shape the legal situation according to their own will. For example, the creditor may request payment of the claim on purpose at the beginning of the year rather than at the end of the previous year and create at that time a liability from which the limitation period runs to extend the limitation period by one year. If we look at this from a constitutional perspective, a derogation from the general rule would require an objective justification which is clearly lacking. It is certainly not a sufficient reason for such an assumption that the time factor allegedly does not make it difficult for the debtor or the creditor to assess whether and when a pre-emptive claim is being made, because the finding of a legal event that is the beginning of the period is the source of doubt, rather than the calculation of the end of the period. Doubts, caused by legal qualifications rather than difficulties in evidence, can be exactly the same both when the deadline is one year and when it is longer. The claim that a creditor's faster recovery of claims will significantly increase the chance to recover money is not entirely true, as recovery depends first on the financial condition of the debtor and this can improve in the longer term. With regard to the amendment of Article. 125 § 1 c.c. with regard to shortening the deadline, it should be pointed out that the argument that the parties are being disciplined is not justified. After all, it is a question of claims, the condition of which has been established in appropriate proceedings. In such circumstances, any valuer rations are more likely to speak against a debtor who does not comply with the obligation arising from a judgment or settlement. The shortening of the limitation period, particularly severe in connection with the inter-temporal rules of the project, therefore constitutes a kind of expropriation of the creditor in the constitutional legal sense of the word and does not appear to be compatible with the interests of the security of legal trading. There may be different reasons why the creditor did not demand that the benefit be fulfilled immediately after it had become due. Very often there are cases where a debtor does not regulate liabilities despite the existence of an implementing title, and the assets hide it, for example by transferring it. to another person. It shows that its income is so low that the creditor is not able to satisfy it. On several occasions, a period of 10 years to enforce a claim allows creditors to seek the debtor's assets and to execute the debtor at the time when he collects the assets. It is also very important to remove the last part of the sentence from the wording above: for example, the limitation period for such claims is shorter. This results in a very serious change in the rules governing the limitation period of claims established by a final judgment or agreement, and there is no mention of this amendment in the justification of the project. For example, this change does not deserve to be accepted. This amendment does not give any clarity as to the final limitation period for specific claims. This raises the question of the designer's intention. What was his intention? Was the purpose of introducing a six-year limitation period for claims established by a final judgment or agreement and exceptions to that rule in the form of shorter time limits for a particular type of claim? Or did the deletion of a section of the provision, however, not aim to introduce such exceptions in the calculation of the limitation period, since the designer considered that the wording of the provision cited in the previous form constituted a superregulation? It is difficult to guess what the legislator's objectives were in the absence of justification. Since, at first glance, the amendment proposed in the amendment raises such fundamental doubts, it can be imagined how many contradictory interpretations would lead to it being brought into legal order. The new rules contained in the project favour consumers to a large extent. In the government draft law, the proposed solutions are justified by the weaker position of the consumer and the need to provide him with the necessary protection. While ensuring consumer protection is a prerequisite that is always worth considering, this kind of distinction between business and consumer positions is debatable and contrary to the civilist principle of equality between entities and the law. This change is a genuine interference with civil law proceedings and unnecessarily violates the well-established principles of substantive law, since it implies a privileged position in the civil proceedings of a consumer who does not have to file a limitation charge, even though other entities are obliged to do so in order to benefit from this limitation. This change will also cause systemic reservations. The concept presented in the project refers to the pattern of codification from the Polish People's Republic, which was based on certain ideological goals. It may be argued that taking into account the expiry of the period of limitation from office will safeguard the interests of inefficient and ineffective debtors, it can be argued that the applicable civil procedure rules already prevent such persons from being protected today - e.g. Article 2 212 c.p.c. or the Consumer Credit Act. In addition, the above-mentioned justification for the project shows that the designer justifies in advance that the exercise of the debtor's right of entity should not be subject to his will. This conviction appears to be based on the assumption that, from the interests of the debtor, it will always be beneficial to statutoryly deprive the possibility of legal redress of pre-emptive claims without the need to make use of the statute of limitations. However, this assumption is also incorrect and results from a superficial analysis of the rule. The defendant may have a legitimate legal interest in ensuring that the period of validity is not taken into account in a situation where, in his view, the undertaking was not created or implemented and expired, while the obligation is extended by an existing obligation. Project solutions violate the principle of general retreat ban - lex retro non agit - which is a fundamental principle of a democratic rule of law. The provisions of the project significantly shorten the limitation period for claims that are already running. Retroactivity bans should be particularly respected when the proposed regulation worsens the situation of the individual, which is the case in the present case. The proposed rules are vague and can cause numerous interpretation doubts. Time for speaking does not allow to present a record after recording how these rules are inconsistent with each other. This not only violates the constitutional rules and the systemic wording of the Civil Code or other consumer laws, but also runs counter to the principles of legislative technique. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence the motion to reject, because this project simply cannot be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u315	Thank you, Marshal. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the PSL Club, the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club, I would like to present our position on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws contained in the Seym printing no. 2216. The aim of this project is to reduce the basic limitation periods. As the projectors argue, this is intended to mobilise the parties to legal relations to speed up the formation of facts in a legal manner. The draft provides for a reduction of the basic limitation period from 10 to 6 years. In the case of claims relating to the pursuit of business activities and relating to periodic benefits, e.g. the rent, lease and lease, however, would amount to 3 years as before. Another important deadline is changing. When the court finds the existence of a claim in a judgment or settlement, the limitation period shall start to run again once that decision has been enforced. Today it is 10 years old. It's a time when a creditor can enforce a claim. The project proposes to reduce this deadline to 6 years or to 3 years in the case of claims relating to periodic benefits. This is a sufficient period for the creditor to take action to enforce the claim. After that time, it should be assumed that he is not interested in pursuing the claim. The draft also provides for changes which relate to judicial and administrative executions from the bank account. Since 8 September 2016, the enforcement authority has been able to take over the debtor's bank account by electronic means. At present, banks are obliged to transfer the amount seized without delay, which prevents the debtor from defending itself, even if the occupation is unfounded, for example. the debt has been settled or the claim is renewable. According to the project, the paid amount to the bailiff account or e.g. the tax office will not reach sooner than 7 days later. This is the period during which the debtor can bring an action for the non-feasibility of the implementing title, which will enable him to clarify the case. However, such a procedure will not be possible if the bailiff takes the account to collect the maintenance due or the pension due from the debtor, e.g. to the victim. Then the bank will immediately transfer the paid amount to the bailiff. In this case, the welfare of children and persons entitled to a pension is more important than the welfare of those to whom the bailiff conducts enforcement proceedings. The authors of the project also predicted a different way of calculating the expiry of the limitation period. The limitation period shall end at the end of the last day of the calendar year, which shall not apply to limitation periods of less than 2 years. High Izbo! It is well known in Poland for buying out outstanding claims by debt companies, which are then used against people who are unaware of their rights. We therefore welcome the introduction of the obligation of the courts to examine whether the claim is valid. If, after examination of the evidence, the court finds that the limitation period has expired, the action will be dismissed and no action by the debtor will be necessary for that purpose. This provision should reduce or at least reduce the unfair behaviour of parts of debt collection companies. The current long limitation periods generate costs by forcing debtors to archive documents for years to prove their debt. Long periods of limitation also lead to pushing courts with small cases. Current solution, i.e. The 10-year limitation period has been in force since the beginning of the 1964 Civil Code, and has therefore been adopted at a time when there has not been, for example, a period of time. Very popular moments. There were no credit cards or widespread capital purchases. Thus, this provision does not conform to modern reality, we must agree with this thesis. High Izbo! I think that the establishment of a project, i.e. the intention to discipline the parties to legal relations to speed up the formation of facts in a way consistent with the law, deserves attention, and the project itself - this is also the conviction of our club - deserves further work in committees. We don't think it's a perfect project. Many bitter remarks have been made to him today. I don't want to duplicate them, because I think the project deserves at least to work on it on committees, and we're in favour of something like this as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u317	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of Members asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Ms Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform, asks the first question. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 117 you introduce a general clause under which the court, at its own discretion, may disregard the limitation if justified on grounds of fairness. At the same time, this provision does not specify exactly what criteria the court is to follow. Today we know that if a limitation charge is raised, the court is obliged to take it into account, hence the concern that it will not be such a gateway for the omission of a limitation institution. We know very well that this institution is intended to serve the stability and certainty of legal relations, as you also write about in the explanatory memorandum. This regulation overturns the question, hence what was the point of introducing such a provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u319	Thank you. Please take the floor of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the rules to the proposed extent raises a lot of controversy between creditors, debtors and representatives of legal and judicial authorities. The limitation obligation imposed by the law on courts will significantly complicate proceedings. It will be necessary to know the defendant's position, which will require a hearing. In the face of difficulties, mostly courts will face. If the institution has doubts about the limitation, it will be obliged to refer the case to a traditional court and this will significantly extend the entire procedure and add work to the traditional courts. Will this be taken into account by the government? In fact, this law needs to be clarified, and I think it will be done on the committee. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u321	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! I have a question because there is such a question that shortening the limitation period will speed up the collection. Only on what basis is such a claim based? This is pure populism, after all, cheatability does not depend on the limitation period, but on whether or not the debtor has money. And besides, all you have to do is file a motion for execution, and the bailiff, in the face of inefficiencies, will cancel out, and it will end the limitation period, and it will run again. In addition, you are talking about legal awareness that it is weak and therefore reducing the situation will improve. But will the debtor know better that he is entitled to a shorter period rather than a longer one? What does this have to do with the entire duration of the limitation period? How you have calculated the adoption of the current text of the article. 125, which in the formula you wrote down, is completely [[♪ The bell ♪]] Incomprehensible and skipping that record I told you about earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u323	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion for rejection was made in the first... Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to speak at this point of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak. I'm so sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer these three questions efficiently. Mrs Osos draws attention to the imprecise wording of the reasons for fairness in Article. 117. What's that supposed to mean? It is obvious that the project uses a general clause. The same clause is a clause on the principles of social relations. By nature, the general clause aims to make the system more flexible, so it is not possible to create a definition of the principles of fairness, because we would deny the very essence of the introduction of general clauses, which are designed to introduce some kind of flexibility and adapt regulation to the social realities in which we operate. On the other hand, what is right and what is wrong depends, of course, on which principles of functioning in social life are considered universally applicable and appropriate in society at a given time. What do the considerations of fairness mean? Here we have all the achievements of case law and legal literature, also against the background of social principles. It is more or less the same as the principle of social relations, although the nomenclature is valid and refers to this pre-war one. Because the principles of social relations are indeed a little bit of a language monster, to which we are accustomed, but derived from the code of the Polish People's Republic. It is difficult for us now to refer to the nomenclature of the times rightly past. A copy of what is meant in particular in relation to fairness is given in § 2, and this is, I believe, a great advantage of this project, not a defect. Because we do, the court should consider certain things, for example. the debtor may be deceived by a debtor - so that the limitation period expires - by some kind of promise that he will pay that he will perform the service. And suddenly it turns out that someone has been deceived by these promises, the limitation period has expired, and you can't prosecute. Therefore, such deceptive, disloyal actions must be countered. This is what he serves, among other things. introducing a general clause in the form of reasons of fairness. Mrs Navel of the Platform points out that the obligation imposed on the court to take account of the fact that the limitation period has expired will complicate proceedings. This fear seems excessive. It means, of course, that there is an additional circumstance that the court must consider and must do so without the initiative of the defendant. This is of course an extra job, but this is a job for which the judges are prepared. The limitation periods for individual civil law relations are not something that judges do not know and cannot apply. And if that were the case, it would mean that these people shouldn't be doing this profession. So this is not a particularly important thought work. As to the question that at any time there will be a hearing, I will say that it does not have to be held, because, first, we assume that those who are dealing with this, for example. as creditors or debt undertakings, or secondary creditors, often once again, have in their portfolio outstanding claims - first of all, they will not refer their claims to the court, knowing that the court's response can only be one: dismiss the action. Moreover, the action may also be dismissed at a sitting in secret. A judgment by default does not always have to be a positive judgment. Sometimes there's judgment by default... [[Under what regulations, Minister?]] Of course, Mrs Marshal... [[You're changing the procedure.]] Judge, we both know very well, because we have done this profession, that a judgment that dismisses an action can be handed down by default, and please do not discuss it at this level, because I think there is no dispute about it. [[At the trial...]] With regard to the e-court, today's regulations are clear: only claims not older than 3 years can be sought before the e-court. Therefore, this project, which in principle shortens the limitation period, does not interfere with the general time limit for the reduction from 10 to 6 years, does not interfere with the limitation period for economic claims. Impact on electronic reprimanding, i.e. so-called. e-court, has negligible, simply older claims in this form, i.e. the EPU, cannot be prosecuted and there remains a way of normal proceedings - before a normal, traditional court. Turning to the doubt, Mrs Dolniak of Modernity, who believes that as the creator of the government project, we have not explained how the project will speed up the recovery of the claim, I can say that the justification seems to contradict this courageous argument that it has not been shown. Even though the most severe sanction, because it is faster - not after 10 years, but after 6 in the case of these claims, this general rule - already in itself accelerates the circulation of civil law and accelerates the recovery of claims. No one will wait until 9 years and 11 months, but he will wait until 5 years, 11 months and 29 days, otherwise the court's answer will be to dismiss the action, so for that reason it will speed up. And we know very well that there are such phenomena as the so-called phenomenon. raising debts, such as meeting not so much from the principal debt but from interest receivable, from costs, from different types of other collateral claims. And the shorter this time the legislator will give to apply such practices, the faster the claims will be made and the debt collection speeded up. It is clear that shortening the limitation period will motivate faster redress. So it is impossible to defend the argument that this bill will not speed it up, since it is obvious that it is the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u325	Thank you. Corrigendum. You're welcome, Marshal Dolnyak. Of course - 1 min.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! But you didn't really listen to what I said. The court ruling is one thing, and the other component is execution, and the execution can be carried out indefinitely. It's not gonna change anything. When making changes to the rules, they need to be considered in a system, in a legal act, from the time of the judgment or the application to enforce the claim. In the present case, it is sufficient for the creditor to submit an application for enforcement. Defying on the basis of inefficiencies means going back to the beginning because it interrupted the limitation period, and it runs again. The fact that you will shorten the limitation period in the investigation or in the possibility of execution will not change anything, because the fundamental issue is not changing - this execution can be repeated indefinitely. You have to think about making recipes. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u327	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Information provided by the Council of Ministers on the state of the forest and on the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015 (Print No 2121) together with the position of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry (Print No 2211). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present information about the state of the forest and the implementation of the National Forest Growth Programme in 2015. This information, prepared on the basis of the 2015 report on the state of the forests in Poland, is included in print No 2121. The state of the forests in Poland is the subject of an annual assessment of the state authority. It is up to the Minister for the Environment to implement the forestry policy of the State. Its main burden, including financial expenditure related to implementation, rests on the State Forest Forest Forests Forests. It is above all the State Forests and foresters that pursue the objectives of forest policy, which are among others. protecting or increasing the area of forests. It is the knowledge of foresters, their experience and commitment that make us talk not only about effective protection, but also about preserving biodiversity in forests. The expression of this effectiveness and consistent sustainable forest management since the 1990s, which protects the wealth of habitats in forests, is, after all, the inclusion of significant forest areas in the European Ecology Network (Natura 2000). Special bird protection areas in Poland occupy more than 2 million hectares of land in state forests, while areas of importance for the community - more than 1.5 million hectares. Let me remind you that forests occupy 9 million hectares and cover more than 29% of the country's total area. According to print No 2121 in 2015, the forest area in relation to 2014 - mainly due to forestation and changes in land records - increased by 17 000. ha. The ownership structure of forests in Poland is dominated by public forests - it represents 80.8% , of which 77% remains on the management board of the forest holding State Forests. On the other hand, the age structure is dominated by forests at the age of 41 and 60, while the average age of stands in forests of all forms of property has increased from 2011 to 57 years. In Poland, forests are generally found in areas with the weakest soils, which is reflected in the habitat types of the forest. More than half of the forest's forest area is dominated by booric habitats. As a result, coniferous species are the dominant species in forests that occupy 68.7% of the population. the surface of the forest. It is worth mentioning that the current species structure, which largely reflects the habitat structure of forests as a result of works related to the conversion of stands and the adaptation of the species composition of crops to habitat conditions, is being transformed, which is reflected in an increase in the share of deciduous stands. According to the 2011-2015 survey, wood resources to the forest area at the end of 2014 reached a density of almost 2.5 billion m3 gross roughness, of which in areas managed by the State Forests are almost 2 billion m3. According to the results of the large-scale forest inventory for the years 2011 to 2015, the average forest stock in Poland is 271 m3/1 ha, including in forests managed by State Forests State Forests - 277 m3/1 ha. High Izbo! The statutory obligations of the State Forest Forest Farm are: sustainable forest management aimed at maintaining the sustainability of forests, the continuity of their multilateral use and the expansion of forest resources. I think that no one in this House needs to be explained that forests, thanks to their diverse structure, have a positive effect on climate change, reduce the concentration of gaseous pollutants, prevent soil erosion and perform many, many other functions. For this reason, forests of a protective nature are distinguished. Their area in the State Forests as at January 2015 increased to 3709 thousand. ha, which represents 52.3% the total forest area, and if we added and included forest reserves it would be close to 54% surface. The share of conservation forests of all forms of ownership in the overall forest area of the country reached 41.2% And by the same token, taking into account the area of the reserves, it would be 42.3%. Forests in Poland as one of the most valuable elements of our environment not only protect, but also are protected by many different forms of protection, including the highest form of protection: national parks, which in 2015 occupied an area of 314.7 thousand. ha. One of the main objectives of conservation measures in national parks is to protect forest ecosystems. The actions proposed by national parks are evaluated each time by scientific councils assigned to each of the parks. I think that the existence of landscape parks, nature reserves, protected landscape areas or nature 2000 areas does not have to be said because everyone knows that, but it is worth considering that nearly 200,000. ha of stands is a seed base, thanks to which it is possible to promote in our forests native ecotypes of forest species. I think few citizens in Poland know that. Similarly, I think it is too rare to say that it is in the area of the forewords that there are animal rehabilitation centres, arboreta and botanical gardens. National forests, while maintaining biodiversity and restoring endangered species of flora and fauna, take their own initiatives, including those aimed at preserving biodiversity and restoring endangered species of flora and fauna. maintain the status of habitats and species in good condition. These include, in particular, a programme for the conservation of forest gene resources, such as a fir restoration programme in the Western Sudetes, a cisa restitution programme and re-induction programmes of different species. In 2015, an additional project to improve the status of habitats protected under the Birds and Habitats Directives was launched in cooperation with the Regional Environment Directorate in Lublin. Why am I paying attention to all this information related to the wider understanding of forest protection? Because I have the impression, especially recently, that in the world of such short media broadcasts information about the activity of State Forests, the activity of a forester is very often limited to showing one task: the acquisition of wood. In addition, with the right commentary, you try to build a negative, destructive image of a forester, and as we can see, a forester in its action not only comprehensively cares for the forest, but also cares for its individual, even the smallest, but also important from the point of view of all natural wealth, elements. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the 2015 report on the state of forests, the threat of the forest environment in Poland is one of the highest in Europe, mainly due to Poland's position on the border between two continental and marine climates, and consequently to the constant and simultaneous impact of many factors causing adverse phenomena and changes in the health of forests. Poland is one of the countries in which adverse phenomena associated with massive insect pests occur in a large variety in cyclical intensity. In order to reduce the damage caused by insects in tree stands, preventive measures and control in endangered areas are necessary. In 2015, the activity of the most dangerous primary pests was low. The imagins of crabs were an exception. Economic damage is also caused by herbivorous mammals, mainly deer, deer, and moose, as well as local rodents. In 2015, damage caused by hunting species and protected species occurred on a total area of almost 90 000. ha, comparable to 2014. One of the highest fires in the last 15 years was the number of forest fires. More than 12 thousand registered. fires - about 7 thousand. more than in the previous year - and more than 5 thousand burned. ha tree stands. The main causes were arson and negligence. In 2015, the main national disaster was the strong drought causing weakening of conifers and deciduous trees and increasing their susceptibility to pest attacks and fungal pathogens. The negative impact of the combined above. Abiotic and biotic factors were already visible in the second half of 2015, while the greatest severity of damage to forests, and hence the increased size of sanitary cuts, including in particular the extraction of desiccation, occurred in 2016 and are likely to be felt in the following years. In 2015 alone, the mass of wood obtained in order to clean up the sanitary condition of the forest, resulting from the removal of dry matter, scrap, excavations, amounted to more than 5 million m3 of wood. The total wood mass obtained in 2015 is 38 million m3, including 36 million m3 net roughness. Ladies and gentlemen! Comprehensive evaluation of the state of forests, information on the National Forest Enhancement Programme, contained in print No 2121, and the obligation to report and inform the State authorities annually on the state of forests It is also an excellent opportunity in my view that we can lean on the day-to-day work of a forester and sometimes think that if we say that there is no - whether it is low - risk by insects or there is no damage from insects. This is also very often preceded by the hard work of foresters, preventive actions, observation activities. And I think today's information is a good opportunity for all of this work, for the involvement of foresters, for the workers of forks and other administrative units of the State Forests, but also for the employees of forest service establishments, who face the challenges they face every day, just to say thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u329	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Bąk and present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Mr. General Director of State Forests! On 25 January 2018, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry discussed the government document: Information on the state of forests and on the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015, print No 2121. High Seym! The committee was attended by a representative of the government, Minister Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, who at first discussed the economic and natural parameters of the functioning of forests in Poland. The legal basis for the submission of information on the state of forests and the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme is the Forest Act - art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2. And on this basis, this material goes to the Sejm every year. Information for 2015 was prepared on the basis of a report on the state of the forest, prepared by the Director General of the State Forest Farm, data from the Central Statistical Office, data from the Forest and Forestry Office and information from the Agricultural Property Agency, the Forestry Research Institute, the General Directorate for Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Environment. The fact that forests are growing every year is noteworthy. As regards the National Forestisation Programme, it was adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1995. The document assumes that Poland's forests will increase to 30% by 2020 and to 33% by 2050. According to the CSO, in 2015 total wooded areas covered 2270 ha, of which land owned by the State Treasury was 775 ha. And there is an optimistic conclusion that the National Lesity Increase Programme will be implemented, because at the moment the level of Lesity is 29.5%. It seems that the National Forest Programme will be successful. It is worth noting that the wealth on the trunk is increasing, that is, there is no talking about a robbery economy. In the course of the discussion there were also questions addressed to the Minister of Sweden-Lewandowski, as it is, how much growth of the annual wood is obtained by foresters. So it turns out that in sustainable forest management, they get 66%. annual increase and 35% remains on the trunk and increases the abundance of wood mass in forests. This is a very good economy. That's how the Members felt about it. During the discussion, there were also questions about why in this information, signed by the Prime Minister of the Government, the state of forests for 2015 did not show such a bad phenomenon in 2015, which was the imposition of a tribute on the State Forests of PLN 800 million, which was treated as a racket, because it was practically no tax, because only for the moment it was requested from the forests of these 800 million PLN, which resulted in a reduction of investments, for example road, which are very needed in state forests. So Minister Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski replied that in the financial and economic report this problem is discussed in detail, while in this general information it was omitted. It has also been said by Members that there is not enough exposure to the issue of hunting damage, damage done in the forests by elks, which are practically not reduced at the moment, and are multiplying and their numbers are very high. There is no answer at this point. There is still no reduction in the moose population, which was once treated as a hunting animal and subject to a certain hunting economy, and at the moment this remains virtually without any control. At some point - Members of such proposals - this must end, for example because of road accidents involving moose, which pass through public roads. There was also a remark during the committee's work that we are late discussing the state of the forest in 2015, because we are in 2018, but the Minister's explanation shows that many actors have to send information, and it is not possible to accelerate. I mean, he said that maybe this particular case is late, but he will make every effort to make it as soon as possible, and declared that by 2016 the information will be submitted to the Sejm by the middle of this year. There were also comments from Members that matters concerning the Białowieża Forest were not sufficiently exposed in the information about the state of the forest, because it contained only a general reference to damage caused by insect pests in relation to the entire forest area, while the thread of the Białowieża Forest was not more prominent according to Members. Following the discussion and clarification by Minister Andrzej Swede-Lewandowski, the committee welcomed the information on the state of the forest and recommends that the High House adopt information on the state of the forest and the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015, print No 2121. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u331	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u332	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government document: Information on the state of the forests and on the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015. According to the information provided by the government in Seym printing No 2121, it would be advisable to conclude that most of the tasks arising from the forestry policy of the State and the Forest Act are properly carried out. The main burden, as the Minister and the President have said, rests on the State Forests. The implementation of the state forest policy by the State Forest Farm requires considerable funding, as action to protect biodiversity in forests results in a significant increase in costs in forest management. The burden for State Forests is multiplied by the coverage of various protective systems of large areas. In 2015, the area of conservation forests in the State Forests was more than 52%. It would be advisable to consider the possibility of reducing this area, because there are significant areas where there is no substantive justification for it to continue to be subject to various unfounded prohibitions and orders. A very difficult task resulting from the country's forestry policy is to improve the management of forests not owned by the State Treasury. The problem of forest management in these forests is due to their surface fragmentation and ownership. As of 31 December 2015, the area of these forests in Poland accounted for around 20% the total area of forests. According to the information submitted in 2015, the forest threat, with the exception of the Białowieża Forest, managed by the State Forests by insect pests was low. Only in deciduous trees, mainly oak trees, the threat from leaf-eating pests has increased. A very big problem, as usual, is the damage to forests caused by forest game. This problem is borne by the State Forests, which themselves must bear the costs of applying different safeguards in order to reduce the loss of crops, young people and forest trees caused by wild game. In 2015, the damage caused by forest game and species protected in forests was high in RDLP Wrocław, Białystok, Piła and Olsztyn. It would be optimistic to say that the State Forests have a modern and efficient fire protection system. Maintenance of the entire surveillance and alarm system and fire infrastructure is associated with large financial resources. The State Forests spend over PLN 80 million annually on fire protection. The forest usage intensity determined on the basis of information from the last 5 years is 65% current increase. This fact must always be reminded, constantly and everywhere. 65% current increase. This means that wood is constantly growing on the trunk in the Polish forests. Wood is constantly growing on the trunk in Polish forests. In 2015, the country's forest area increased by 17 000 as a result of the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme and the changes made to the land register. ha in relation to 2014 Most of the tasks arising from the State's forestry policy and the Forest Law are properly carried out, so Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government document: Information on the state of forests and on the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u333	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have missed your appointment, and I hope that this will only be a positive aspect and I hope for good cooperation in the environmental committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's information in print No 2121 on the state of the forest and on the implementation of the National Forest Growth Programme in 2015 can be summarised using the quote contained in it. Namely, the report states: the progressive increase in forest resources is, on the one hand, the result of an increase in forest area as a result of many years of forest management and, on the other hand, compliance with the principles of sustainable forest management. I am absolutely not surprised at such a statement, which concerns the period of rule of the Civic Platform. The platform, as a responsible political party, understood what the concept contained in the quoted statement meant. I am also not surprised by the further statements of facts: most of the tasks resulting from the PLP and the Forest Law through universal protection of biodiversity are properly carried out; wood harvesting in forests managed by PGL LP is carried out with balance in forest ecosystems within the limits of ensuring the sustainability of forests and increasing their resources. These are quotes from the report in Beata Szydło's government's information on the actions of Ewa Kopacz's government, and that's what surprises me nicely. Ms Szydło as Prime Minister praises the Platform and the PSL, when they have been criticizing this policy openly for the last 10 years, accusing the predecessors, for example. privatisation of State Forests. Minister Szczerski's statements about how the PO privatizes the rivers in Poland, not to mention, because we focus on forests. Thus, in addition to granting yourself a giant bonus of tens of thousands of PLN in the reflex of humanity, Mrs Szydło takes note of the correct and good management of forestism by the authorities of the PO to leave the function of Prime Minister Szydło at the meeting of the Council of Ministers. It seems natural and justified to ask, therefore, what was given the gigantic financial prizes of the former Minister Szyszka and his alternates. After all, they are responsible for the cut-off in Natura 2000 protected areas. As a justification for the whole world, they presented the gradation of the rootworm. For the record, Minister Szyszko is the man responsible for raising the limit of cut trees in the area of the Białowieża Forest four times, and he is also the man responsible for violating the European Parliament's Habitats Directive. The rest of the information is data. I don't see the need to go into the details that are available to the wide public. The Minister and the rapporteur were so kind that they almost quoted all this information a few minutes ago. However, I believe that after reading this information, it is very appropriate to ask how you have been able to lie to the public in a political fight over the years. How totally must we be decencyless to reward each person responsible for one of the biggest and loudest disputes with the European Commission about cutting down state forests with tens of thousands of zlotys? You live and follow the maxim of Jack Kurski, your former envoy, that the dark people will buy it. I have a message for you: every lie has short legs, and then it's a responsibility. The members of the Platform will raise their hand in favour of this positive assessment of the duration of their report. Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Gosiewski, there are no words in the government's information except the Białowieża Forest. It's just for the correction of your words. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u335	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, congratulations on your nomination as we come from one district. This is a distinction for Koszalin-Szcinec land. And we move on to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the issue of information on the state of the forests and on the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015. The problem of forest management is an important topic in this term of the Polish Sejm. This is due either to Parliament's legislative activity or to unforeseen natural events. I am not surprised, therefore, that there is an interest in this issue from Members and Members. Sadly, many of them are politically, even ideologically, not economically, simply humanly. After all, the forest is actually our common good. For example, the law on tree cutting on non-forest property is an example. The total opposition raised a large plarum that the Polish forests would be wiped out, and yet the law was good and applied to another reality. The hysteria of the opposition was subject to Law and Justice and introduced provisions limiting the possibility of ownership, which is also harmful for economic reasons. Another political issue was the Białowieża Forest. How many representatives of totalitarian opposition have complained abroad to Poland that it cuts out the original forest. It's hard to even count. As a result, Minister Szyszko gave his head under the political axe. Another case is that Minister Szyszko himself contributed to the consolidation of pathology in this important institution, the State Forests, a specific state in the country. The environmental disaster that took place in summer 2017 in Pomerania and Wielkopolska also contributed to the interest in forest problems. As a result of the storm, thousands of trees were grubbed up. For this reason, i.e. due to natural defects in forest trees, planting activities should be undertaken. The Kukiz Club15 accepts the information provided by the Council of Ministers about the state of the forest and the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015 and is responsible for its adoption by the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u337	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u338	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and State Forests like to emphasize what we have heard here, that Poland is the leader of deforestation in Europe, which is not true. In terms of forestry, i.e. the percentage of forest area in the total area concerned, in this case our country is not at the top of the European agenda. Dr. hab. Krzysztof Kujawy from the Institute of Agricultural and Forest Environment of the Polish Academy of Sciences in its analysis for the 2017 Science for Nature collective showed that in the 28 largest countries of Europe we are in 19th place in this respect. In the category of average lesion change in percentage over the 1990s, Poland is on the 15th place in Europe. As for the change measured in percentage points, our country is in 13th place. According to the World Bank data, in the period 1990-2015 the lesity fell only in Portugal and in many countries increased much more than in Poland, e.g. in Bulgaria or Italy by up to 5 percentage points, in Spain by almost 10 percentage points. In Poland, the rate of forestation has been decreasing consistently since 2006. This calls into question the possibility of implementing a strategy to increase the country's Lesity. According to the information, a total of 2270 ha of land was forested in 2015 (a 40% decrease compared to 2014). Since 2005, the Agricultural Property Agency has significantly reduced the transfer of land to forestation, which, together with the restrictions resulting from the establishment of Natura 2000 sites, has created real difficulties in implementing the objectives of Stage III of the KPZL on land owned by the State Treasury. A very similar remark was given in the 2014 information. What was the number of forests in Natura 2000 areas in 2015? How much does this affect the trend of the size of the woods? We know that in 2015 the Natura 2000 network was not supplemented by new habitat areas: At the end of 2014 849 OZW, with a total area of 38 510 km2 was approved by the European Commission and 849 areas of Community importance, with a total area of 38 510 km2 were approved by the European Commission as at the end of 2015. It is true that forests can destroy, for example. valuable photothermal grasslands or meadows, and hence animal species associated with them, so reducing forestation due to the adaptation of plans to nature conservation requirements, we consider it positive. The reduction of forest areas as a result of the conservation of habitats and species of Natura 2000 is a strong argument in itself, even if it affects the implementation of the National Forest Scheme. However, how much influence it is - we do not know. There is also a lack of data on the conservation of habitats and priority species in Natura 2000 areas, but we can only learn that: A large area of protected areas in forests managed by PGL State Forests increases the conservation of habitats and priority species in Natura 2000. The conservation of nature is an important priority in achieving the objectives of forest policy, but in fact there are no basic programmes for expanding and setting up new protected areas, and NGOs are effectively blocked in this direction. Since 2001, despite existing plans and projects, no national park has been established in Poland. According to the report, nature reserves covered an area of 167 000 in 2015. ha, i.e. 0.6% Poland's surface, which looks not impressive at reservations e.g. in Germany - almost 4% Germany's surface, where there are twice as many inhabitants. The Forest Act requires equal treatment of three functions: production, recreation and protection. The State Forests earn only in the wood they earn, they are not obliged to increase the area of protected areas, so they are not obliged to perform a protective and recreational function at the most socially optimal level. As a result of climate change, natural disasters and fires are increasing. In this respect, the information has a very general description. Well, maybe I'll talk about the Bialowieza Forest at the end of the day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You mentioned it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u339	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u340	I'm done. In this project, you said what the Minister mentioned here, that a disaster...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u341	Thank you, Commissioner, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u342	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u343	I would like to ask you, Mrs Urszula Pasławska. I can't see. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join us in asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask the question of Mr Jan Kilian, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Forestisation Programme, which is a strategic study programme, was developed in 1995 and established an increase in forestity to 30% in 2020, 33% in 2050. At present, it is worrying that since 2006 there has been a steady decline in forest dynamics. And let me remind you that last year, as a result of the storm in Tucholskie Bora, about 16 thousand were destroyed. ha trees, mainly in Pomorskie voivodship, that is, as long as the level of forestation was increased in 2015. Therefore, I ask: Is the information on the state of the forest developed and last year's events in Tucholskie Bora [[♪ The bell ♪]] will increase the dynamics of forestation in Pomorskie voivodship as well as in Poland in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u345	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Duda, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In public space, there is a problem of damage caused by forest animals in agricultural crops. These matters are settled - we know who estimates the damage and who pays the compensation. Referring to Mr Dariusz Bąk and Mr Gosiewiski's comments: How is the possible harm done by forest animals in forest resources? Is this a problem for the State Forest Forest Farm or a suitable old age? Are such cases considered? Who estimates the damage? And is there any compensation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u347	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is a pity that information on the state of forests for 2015 is considered with such a long delay and without a 2016 report, because we cannot make any comparisons here. I have three questions for that information. First question. What is the forest area at the end of 2017 compared to 2015 and 2016? During this time, during these two years, a lot of different activities took place, which I believe have reduced this area. The second question concerns the sale of wood. In 2015, 37 971,000 were sold. m3 wood raw material. What is the sale of wood for 2017, when very high-performance equipment was used and significant quantities were cut? And one last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why such an invasion of pests in the Białowieża Forest and when did it occur when there were no such pests on a large scale in 2015? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u349	Thank you, Member. [[I'd like a written reply. I'm sorry.]] Please take the floor of Mrs Marta Kubiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u350	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Due to the information about the state of the forest and the implementation of the National Forest Enhancement Programme in 2015, I allow myself to ask the following question. Only beetles are mentioned in the study presented in one section on forest risk by harmful insects. Does this mean that the foresters in Poland have not struggled recently with the need to fight other insects, or the recently famous printer root? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u351	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u352	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I wanted to ask the rapporteur a few questions. Is it true that during the committee meeting we talked about some lies, as the representatives of the Civic Platform said? Is it true that during the committee meeting we talked about damage from insects, especially from the printer's barker, in the Białowieża Forest, as we confirmed in the first quarter of 2016 during the field mirroring in the Białowieża Forest? And, Mr Reporter, is it true that during the committee meeting we spoke about the rackets that the State Forests must bear under different titles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Małgorzata Golińska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors of Forestland! I'm sorry you had to wait in the cold for the inconvenience. [[Then you should have let them into the Seym, invited them for tea.]] I cordially welcome you and thank you for your presence. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I said during the presentation of information about the state of the forest, I am glad that there is such an annual obligation, because it is a good opportunity for us not only to get acquainted with the document, but also to learn about the work of a forester, to not rely solely on short media inputs, which most often focus on logging and very often also try to build a negative picture of a forester as the one that is geared solely to gain. I think that during this discussion a little bit is confirmed by what I am saying, that we need this discussion and a deeper understanding of the subject, because I think that this assessment of foresters' activities will also be completely different. I do not hide that Mr Cimoszewicz's statement - he is no longer in the room - who attributed the whole good state of the forests in 2015 to the political activities of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party... I would ask you very much not to politicize the foresters, because it's always... [[It was the country that brought them to the church as a duty...]] ...is harmed by the forestman as the one who always has the good of the forest at heart. Let me remind you that foresters operate under their laws: forest law, forest rules, forest protection rules. And if they don't mind, we can say that their experience, their work, their commitment is precisely because we have a good state of the forest. But if they were prevented by the decision concerning the Białowieża Forest - what Mr Cimoszewicz was talking about - when the foresters were taken a tool to carry out their activities, also forest conservation activities, in particular the control of insect pests, in this case the printer's barker, unfortunately, we have the result of which we are discussing today, i.e. the dead wood in quantities long over 1 million m3, about dying stands, about dying habitats - and could still be mentioned. Mrs Lieder spoke of greater forestism in European countries. I think it is worth considering that it is difficult to compare European countries, for example because they have completely different climatic conditions, that they have a different surface, have a different scale of urbanisation, etc., so I think it is quite risky. Not to mention that forests in Poland are very often classified differently in some European countries. For them, very often the forest is something that we can only call a bushing. There was also a remark from the honourable Member that we have nothing to boast about, because only about 30% of the country's area is covered by forests. It is worth mentioning that the forests still occupied 40% at the end of the 17th century. the surface of the country. 1945 and we already have 20.8% surface - we all know what was happening in Poland - and the reversal of this process by 1970 caused us to have 27% surface. The country's programme to increase the forestality that we are talking about today has set the targets that we should achieve, and that is 30% by 2020. If today, in 2018, we are talking about 29.5% the area of Poland covered with forests, we are on the right track, which does not mean that we should not make efforts to achieve this programme, this plan without interference. Mr Kilian spoke about the steady decline in forests, especially in the context of the storms that took place last August, and said that now the dynamics of forests will increase. I think that we should first distinguish the issue of forests and renewals, because what was left after the hurricanes, after the storms, and what we will introduce there, and we will certainly introduce, to this we are obliged by the law in force in Poland, the foresters are 5 years old, it will be renewal, while the woods take place on land on which the forest has not grown, and here the problem is the low supply of land. I will also remind you that, if I am not mistaken, in 2010, provisions were made that pointed out to the agricultural real estate agencies that they should first sell their land and not allocate it to the State Forests for forestry. I think about it. It's worth bending over, too. Mr Duda asked about the damage to the public forests caused by the game, whether such damage is and whether the State Forests are compensated for it. The damage is, of course, damage not only in crops and youngsters, I myself, as a forester, have dealt with scorched beech youngsters, so I know that this is a huge problem and these are losses to the Treasury. State Forests don't get compensation. Mrs Czernow asked if woods were known at the end of 2017. I don't have that kind of information right now. I can tell you that 15,000 arrived in 2016. Ha forest. As soon as we receive the information for 2017, we will certainly forward it to the Members. Mrs Czernow also asked about the pest invasion in the Białowieża Forest. This is also what I was talking about when I presented the information that in 2015 the accumulation of many biotic and abiotic factors caused us to observe greater damage in forests. I also signalled that the increased extraction of desiccant for this reason would be observed in 2016 and in subsequent years. And I think that the example of the Białowieża Forest also shows this - if in 2012, despite the diagnosis of problems in the Białowieża Forest, the foresters were not allowed to react in the way that they usually react in accordance with the rules of forest protection, today, a few years later, we have the consequences of the disaster that I was talking about when I answered Mr Cimoszewicz. Mrs Kubiak asked whether there were other harmful insects in the state forests than the one I mentioned, and in particular asked about the rootstock. I think it is worth mentioning that in 2015 the largest collection of spruce wood for sanitary cuts took place in the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Wrocław, and it was close to 500,000. m3 wood, not much less was in the regional management in Katowice, in the regional management in Szczecin it was almost 300 thousand. m3 and regional management in Białystok - 200 thousand. m3. On the other hand, the entire pulp of spruce wood obtained under sanitary cuts is almost 2 million m3, including spruce drying was 63%. This also shows that the forester's root is constantly involved, while the appropriate response in due time does not cause the negative phenomena that we are dealing with in the Białowieża Forest. I hope I have answered all your questions. If I've missed one, then of course I'll answer it in writing. [[I'd ask you to answer my questions in writing.]] For those of 2017, as I said, if we receive data for 2017, this information will be provided to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u355	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To answer Mr Jerzy Gosievski, I will begin by asking the first question, whether any lies were mentioned at the meeting of the Environment Committee. The same Member who spoke here also then spoke in a similar tone. He tried to take advantage of the situation that the Members of the current governing coalition spoke positively about the work of foresters, speaking about how well the Civic Platform and PSL ruled, since we speak very well about forests today. He tried to take advantage of this good work of foresters, and they said to the members of the environmental committee that political factors for the Civic Platform in 2015 were interfering with the good implementation of the economy in forests. It was spoken and, among other things, about which I in my first speech... [[You're saying stupid things.]] ... I said, it was also about the racket, about the fact that the political factors caused it to be passed here in 48 hours, in this seym... [[That's not true, that's not true.]] ...misleading public opinion, this provision and imposed a tribute of 80 million on the National Forests in 2014 and 2015. [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, there was a situation like this, and it wasn't a tax, it was a tribute, which was treated as a racket. This prevented the implementation of planned road investments in forests, for example, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to clarify today when discussing the status of forests for 2015. This is the thread I'd like to show you. And I would also like to add, please, that State Forest Farm has existed for 94 years and has perfected its activities, adapting to the current situation during the various periods of functioning of the State. This is the kind of company that won't be able to throw away what it's called for. This is forest service and it did not allow political factors to throw themselves out of the good management system in 2015. On the other hand, going to the second question by Mr Jerzy Gosiewski, about what happened in the Białowieża Forest, I explain. Members at the meeting of the Environment Committee said that they reminded the representative of the Civic Platform that in 2012 the Minister of the Environment of the Civic Platform, breaking the law, arbitraryly changed the plan to arrange the forest, drawn up and already approved by the Ministry of the Environment, a ten-year plan to organise the forest for the three forest sounds of the Białowieża Forest. He changed the approved plan, said: there will be no acquisition of more than 100,000. m3 per year, only 48 thousand. m3. This caused the foresters in these forest-landing areas to be unable to obtain the wood contained by the printer's barker and that this pest had been multiplied mass. So this was the intended action, and it has to be explained and it has to be judged. Here one of the ladies from the Civic Platform said that in 2015 this pest was not in such a quantity. Already 4 million m3 of wood was dead, it was destroyed by a pest that was not to be combated, because political factors caused a change of plans, arbitrary, with violations of the law in force. And with regard to the case concerning racketeering - this was combined with the answer to Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski's first question - it was unfair and was detrimental to the good functioning of the State Forest Forest Farm. However, thanks to the defence mechanisms of this company, the responsibility of people who work in the State Forests, ladies and gentlemen, has been carried out as far as possible. And today, for this reason, the Environmental Commission has accepted the activities of the State Forest Forest Farm. That is why information about the state of the forest was accepted by the majority of the parliament, including the Civic Platform. This is why it was recommended that the High House adopt information on the status of forests in 2015. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[With a formal application.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u357	Member of the Commission with a formal proposal. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u358	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister hasn't been around long! The Landlords in the box! The state of the gallery! One thing I would like to say is that Mr Bąk's rapporteur unfortunately missed the truth and it is worth explaining. In the case of a forestry holding - this was still treated in a crisis situation, in the case of the floods of the 100th anniversary of 2010 - it was established as a State enterprise and other companies pay dividends, support...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u359	I understand that the Member is being corrected. [[Speaker: She didn't speak...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u360	It was a legal solution. With respect to your foresters, it's worth telling the truth from this bleachers. I was the rapporteur myself at the time, and we were very concerned about the forest economy. And the plans - Mr, you are a forester and you know that very well - can be changed. Out of concern for the forests as well as today, as we are all in this Parliament, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was no mention of the privatisation of forests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u361	Thank you very much. But you've abused the formal application form. The discussion is closed. The Commission requests the acceptance of the information from print No 2121. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws (Prints 2191 and 2277). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Following the two-day session of the subcommittee, which prepared a report on this EU MiFID II directive and MiFIR regulation, yesterday, the Committee on Public Finances examined this project. After a rather long, intense debate, I wanted to make a number of questions about this Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints 2191 and 2277, one amendment. I would also like to refer to this as a representative of the club more widely in the next speech. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to pass the amendments on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u363	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u364	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This is one of the most difficult pieces of legislation that we have undoubtedly been working on in these two years. We have similar implementations ahead of us this week. This will be another EU Payment Services Directive - DGS II. But it must be said that this draft implementation, the draft law on financial instruments, commonly referred to as MiFID II, is not the last project, so to speak, related to the decision of the EU structures in this area, because the European Commission is already working on the MiFID III Directive. It may be thought that the European Commission takes care of financial market participants, investors, because the idea of these entries - maybe it is worth mentioning in the statistics that all documents together with regulations, with changes in legal acts, the tables are supposed to have around 1300 pages, someone has counted it thoroughly - is to improve the transparency of investment processes, accessibility, such a greater concern for investors, market participants. Of course, this is commendable, because it is not only in our Polish practice that we have very reprehensible phenomena in this area, undoubtedly associations of investment funds, brokerage offices, payers, payment institutions - all of this is taking on such a character, a great technical element today. These entities, so-called fintechs are beginning to dominate, also when it comes to transactions in financial markets. We already have examples in China today that through facial scanning you can make payments, scans of the pupil of the eye, such payments are also made in the case of refugees in the Middle East. We see huge digitization, digitalization of these processes. Of course, this is intended to facilitate, simplify our relations in the financial markets, in the money markets, but on the other hand it goes towards a great dehumanization of these processes. Perhaps this is some element of behavioral economics, which involves poking the client, pushing him to make a more rational decision, because such a robot counselor will offer us better, present some activities in the future. This, of course, is more relevant to the second directive, which we will also be working on in a moment, but it certainly also sees simplification processes, some market offers, a bigger review of the service providers, and it can even be said that we can see such care that certain decisions in the financial markets are not concentrated in the hands of just one person so as not to create such a situation that actually one person can decide on the fate of hundreds of thousands or perhaps even millions of participants in this market. Undoubtedly, all these reservations, the comments that Poland is some wayward participant, a member of the EU structure, are false. Despite some delays in this area, we are trying to adapt rather quickly and even very basically - I think - we are approaching the translations of these EU legislations, we are trying to be very precise. In fact, I would say that sometimes we could think of a slightly greater freedom or freedom of approach to certain records. But it is certainly the exercise of EU law, which is moving towards some unusual coverage of processes or standards of the right of all market behaviour. We'll see, time will show if it's the right direction, but since it is, we're trying to stick to it, adjust. I repeat: we are still facing great challenges in the work of the DGS II subcommittee, the next directive, even more technical or financial moments, because it is more like a technological process in financial markets than a legislative act. Of course, we are trying to cope with this challenge, although it is undoubtedly a very tedious process, very difficult work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u365	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u366	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Agree with the previous speaker, agree with the rapporteur on the fact that this is one of the most difficult laws: extensive, long, regulating a number of legal solutions which were in the Polish legal order. But at the beginning of January, as the EU rules say, it comes into force whether the EU MiFID II directive is in force or not, which is to revolutionise the way financial products are distributed in Poland. We have adapted to this provision by making this amendment. This is particularly the case for the investment fund industry, although it will act directly on all entities that are involved in the sale of investment products, i.e. banks and insurers. The aim of this law is to ensure that clients are protected and that investment firms operate transparently. We very much want this action to be implemented, the assumption that MiFID is making for itself. The previous directive, which was introduced in 2007, and therefore has been in force for 10 years, imposed additional information obligations for the first time and, more importantly, introduced the obligation to provide customers with special surveys to identify their investment risk profile, e.g. a tendency to risk, which was consequently intended to prevent them from an unwanted, inappropriate financial product, e.g. an investment fund, a derivative or a structured product. However, the document did not fulfil its function, hence the new directive. When discussing the entry into force of this directive, i.e. the proposal to amend a number of laws, the directive first of all... This has been discussed for a long time. We were discussing, we were discussing the remuneration of salesmen, distributors. To understand this: so far in Polish law or market practice distributors received remuneration and Polish fees for the distribution of products were among the highest EU charges. In the broad reports submitted in the committee - thank you, because I also received such a report from both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission - it is shown that not only the matter of discussing, making the buyer aware of the commissions incurred in this regard, and therefore some of the funds invested that will not bring effective investment in the future... In this case, we have shown that on the Minister's side there is a given authority concerning, among others, the. the setting of price caps. But among other things. the issue of charges and their reduction is an important issue which has been raised in the light of the proposed amendment. It also points to new distribution channels, to the sales model, but also to the new obligations of the Financial Supervision Commission to implement the MiFID II Directive. From the customer's point of view, regulations should bring a number of benefits, mainly in terms of reducing fees. On the one hand, there will be pressure from investment fund associations themselves. The current distribution channels are also changing, there will be a greater role for online platforms, but also a new formula for the requirements for running energy companies, where new obligations imposed by this Directive are introduced. What objectives have been set before the implementation of this Directive? We hope that they will be implemented and that this additional information and supervision obligation is imposed [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Financial Supervision Authority will do its job.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u367	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u368	We will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u369	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, because the file is long. It's not my name. It's a long file. [[It's hard.]] ...complicated and, let's face it, terribly chatty. We're kind of set up in a way... We're being blackmailed, actually. We need to introduce this act and we need to implement it quickly, otherwise we are simply going to be punished as a country by the fact that we are late in implementing the EU directive and regulation. The most important thing for me right now is not why we are late, because we are, but the most important thing for me is that, as usual, using this time gun, we are introducing a law that is not really an implementation of the directive - because by the way, we are introducing a lot of different provisions, regulations, and sometimes just literature, and it is probably just to make it longer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the legal act. This is the piece of legislation we're discussing. He's got, I don't know, 300 pages or more, something like that. The Germans, who are rather known for being horribly thorough, introduced such an act in such a form. 120 pages, for a lot of Germans. The Germans could do it on 120 pages, we have to do it on 300 pages. It would seem that maybe we're more accurate. No, we're just putting in a lot of unnecessary recipes, regulations -- you can, of course, find conspiracy theories that I'm not looking for to be clear -- so that the KNF can have an extra instrument so that the regulator can have additional instruments at all, so that he can do something and so on. Not really. In fact, it's just that we're getting more and more into the blood making of the law, which is too long, too stupid, I'm sorry for the strong word that's just not concrete, and then we have huge problems enforcing this law, because it's very difficult to enforce a law that isn't concrete. I'll give you one example, which I also gave on the committee. That's change 80. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 103 - so at this moment in our new almost written - lips. 1 and 1a are replaced by the following: The number of members of the management board and the supervisory board of the brokerage house should ensure effective, sound and prudent management of the brokerage house, in particular taking into account the scope, scale and complexity of the business carried out, with at least 2 persons included in the management board. That's how you spell the Bible. These are some general assumptions that are not needed at all in the legal act, because everyone knows - everyone who applies this law knows - that the board should be careful, correct, effective that it should manage, take into account the scope and scale of the activities carried out, etc. At this point, instead of writing down what is really important in this provision, and it is important here that at least two people should be part of the board of directors... Couldn't write: the board should include at least two people, period? Then we wouldn't have 300 pages, then maybe we'd have like Germany 100 or 120 pages. Let's stop making laws that really complicate our lives, not helping us get things done. This is one example. Of course, the law that is changed is not much better to be clear. This previous provision, Article. 103, contains similar literature, it is also not a law, it is only literature. But I would like a good change to also try to correct the mistakes of the predecessors and to introduce a good law. And a good law is a law that is legible, which is clear, which allows for its easy implementation. Unfortunately, this law will not serve this purpose. On the other hand, this is EU law, which we must create. The directive does not order such literature to be clear, but it is EU law, so we have no other choice but to support these rules in the sense that we will vote in favour of this law. We have no choice but to be happy if our country is punished. And one more time... Here I mostly address not even the parliamentary majority, because I am convinced that she thinks as I do, only to the government, but to be able to afford the courage to start changing the law. Let's start creating a law that's short, simple, and obvious, that's straight. Just as I gave this example - in this provision it was enough for us to impose an obligation that there should be no less than two members of the board. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u371	Thank you, sir. It was supposed to be short. [[Mr Longi can't be short.]] Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Club PSL - Union of European Democrats. [[Too long a name, Mr. Marshal, it should be shortened somehow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints No 2191 and 2277. This government bill was the subject of an analysis of both the Permanent Sub-Committee and the Public Finance Commission. The work has complemented the proposal with numerous legislative amendments, as well as many substantive amendments. The project generally implements EU law, including capital market directives and regulations, the financial instruments market, so-called. MiFID II and MiFIR. And the Directive and the Regulation together provide a legal framework that regulates requirements for investment firms, regulated markets, service providers, information sharing and so-called companies of countries. third parties providing investment or investment services in the European Union. Both the Directive, the Regulation and the proposed draft law fall within the uniform right to apply in all the countries of the European Union. In the course of the work on this comprehensive document, the provisions of the Article were supplemented. 1 on numerous Commission Delegated Regulations, adopted in 2016 and 2017 as a complement to the basic Directive on technical standards for investment firms, market operators and credit institutions, trading venues or algorithmic trading investment firms. Substantive amendments have been introduced, inter alia. regulations enabling higher fees for speculators to be applied, the government debt management operations carried out also by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, i.e. not only by the Ministry, the deadlines for storage and archiving have been clarified, and banks have also been introduced in the same way as in brokerage houses, nomination committees or companies have been able to set flexible procedures and deadlines with distributors of information. Many controversy and discussions during the committee's work have raised the issue of functioning, among others. the nomination committee, whose tasks have not been detailed, and we say that the document is very extensive anyway. They have not been further defined in this draft law, so it is somewhat unfounded. On the other hand, we welcome this as a club, and so did the Committee on Public Finance, the proposal to reduce and set maximum fees for the management of investment funds by regulation, and I would like to draw attention to the very thorough analysis prepared by the Committee on Financial Supervision on this subject. The draft law sets out in very detail the scope of the powers and responsibilities of the KNF, these are obligations of a very extensive, administrative, supervisory, control, as well as penalties and sanctions for those who do not adapt. In this case, I must stress that the KNF has stood at the level of the task. In the assessment prepared, the committee draws attention to the need to interfere with the legislator and reduce the costs charged to investors of Polish investment funds. KNF considers that the Polish fund market requires legislative intervention as market regulation alone is insufficient and does not lead to lower costs for investors. Therefore, the fixing of maximum charges by the Minister of Finance is fully justified. Reducing the cost of investment funds will increase the level of protection of investors' interests, and in the longer term will result in improved performance and competitiveness compared to much cheaper foreign funds today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats welcomes the submitted project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u373	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints No 2191 and 2277. The project concerns the necessary changes to the national legal order following the entry into force of European capital market regulations and will allow the application of EU rules on markets in financial instruments - MiFID II and MiFIR. The new solutions are designed to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of financial markets in Poland and the European Union and to increase the safety of participants. The Commission of Public Finances on 26 February 2018 introduced numerous amendments to the draft law consisting, inter alia, of the clarification referred to in the text of the act. As the projectors point out in the explanatory memorandum, these provisions will improve transparency of trading for participants in capital instruments markets and increase transparency of turnover for non-equity markets. Investment firms providing investment consulting services will be required, among others. to provide information on whether they provide services in an independent manner and to disclose the costs of their advice and explain the basis for the advice provided. In addition, there will be a limitation on the possibility of receiving or collecting remuneration, commissions or any monetary or non-monetary advantage from third parties, in particular from issuers or suppliers of products by companies providing independent investment advice and portfolio management services. However, the bill raises doubts in several points. Firstly, as noted by the Confederation of Leviatan, the provisions in question are very vague and introduce solutions according to which portfolio management companies are fully aligned in terms of such activities with investment firms. This is not the result of the MiFID II Directive or Regulation 2017/565. Secondly, as many stakeholders have pointed out in the consultation on this project, some provisions have not been agreed and, more importantly, they also do not constitute the implementation of any provisions of Community law. In view of the above, the Modern is in favour of introducing an amendment to remove the article. 32b. Four fund laws. That's the amendment, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u376	There are already internal control mechanisms in the company responsible for testing the compliance of internal processes with the law, reporting to the authorities of the company, so there is no need to introduce additional control mechanisms. In modern terms, the amendment should continue to be taken into account. Depending on whether this amendment is accepted or rejected, we will recommend the adoption of the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u377	Thank you very much. One Member has asked questions. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You don't have an MP? [[I'm here!]] It is, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question about amendment 89, because - I will remind you - in the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, amendment 89 on the content which it contained was not accepted by the committee. I listened clearly to the report by the chairman of the committee who did not comment on this. Therefore, I have a question for government representatives: What is the situation regarding amendment 89? Has the government proposed an amendment to the nomination committee? Because right now we have an unexplained situation, and there's a second reading. I'm asking you to explain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u379	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Nowak has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u380	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As for the change concerning the nomination committee, there was some confusion yesterday during the committee's work, while we were considering the High Commission that we were in favour of this amendment, i.e. the text that was in the text came out of the committee, and we were in full support, saying that as regards the details of the tasks relating to the nomination committee, this would be defined by the regulation of the Minister of Finance. I would like to point out that a similar provision was adopted by the committee in a practically similar form, in a similar text at later points concerning banks. So it seems to me that there's been some confusion here or some of the Members... I don't know how to put this. In any case, I think that some of the Members then... [[But she wasn't voted out. What about it now?]] She wasn't overruled. It was voted, yes, but it was not accepted. [[It was voted out.]] On the other hand, a similar change in the banking sector has been adopted. We'd still be positive about her. As far as I am concerned, Mr Szewczak has tabled an amendment of similar wording. We'll examine her to see if she's similar. [[To this point?]] Yeah, I think it's up to that point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u381	Minister, please do not discuss with the Member in the Chamber, but continue your speech. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Sure, okay.]] To conclude, this amendment was welcomed. If the amendment tabled by Mr Szewczak, I do not know which one you have tabled from the Modern... In any case, we will certainly be positive about this amendment. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Rapporteur? Please, Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u382	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Czernow can read my mind. Indeed, I have not read the text of the amendment, but you have hit it very well - of course it concerns the article. 1: the following Article is inserted after point 89: 89a, concerns the nomination committee. After all, we can't read all the amendments here from the Parliamentary Speaker, because it would take a long time. Finally, I would just like to ask or appeal to the Minister from the Ministry of Finance that, as far as such large acts are concerned, it would seem good if this cooperation with the Legislative Office - e.g. where we later lose a huge part of the work, time, many hours of meetings - it could be more efficient, because some issues could be eliminated at the level of certain agreements with the Legislative Office. It seems like it would speed things up a lot. I would like to ask for more confidence in the Members of the Committee on Public Finance, because we sometimes see some problems that are worth eliminating. Of course, we understand the attachment of the Ministry as the creator of the project to certain records, but it seems that without disturbing the essence of the problem or the changes, it would sometimes be possible, so to speak, to trust us that the direction of the arrangement is good. It seems to me that in subsequent, especially large ones - because with smaller legal acts it is easier - large studies may need to be improved in these two aspects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u383	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of Juliusz Lea, President of the City of Krakow in the 100th anniversary of his death (prints no 2230 and 2274). I ask Mr Bogusław Sonik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u384	Today, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed this draft resolution commemorating the century of the death of the president of the city of Cracow Juliusz Lea. The Commission agreed that it was a person who fully deserves the resolution of the Polish Sejm and supported this project by making small amendments that emphasized the patriotic nature of the actions of President Juliusz Lea, not only the aspect that concerned the modern way of managing the city of Krakow. Juliusz Leo was a lawyer, economist, professor of the Jagiellonian University, politician, self-government officer, Member of the National Sejm of Galicia, Member of the Austrian Council of State. For 16 years he served as the president of the city of Krakow, he was also the first president of the National Committee and the initiator of the creation of Polish Legions. His presidency is a period of development of Krakow, not just a geographical one. The city under his rule grew to 47 km2 from approx. 6 km2. In this respect, Zwierzyniec, Krowodrze, Prądnik Czerwony, Prądnik Biały, Grzegórzki, Dąbie, Płaszów and Podgórze joined the agreement with representatives of 13 villages and suburban communes. For comparison, the area of Warsaw was 33 km2. The Great Kraków Juliusz Lea is also a quality development of the city, thanks to which Kraków became a modern European metropolis - regulation of the banks of the Vistula River, the shift of the Rudava trough, the extension of the sewage system, the water supply network and the extension of the communication network with new tram lines, the orderly financial management of the city and the increase of its revenue, the construction of the third bridge on the Vistula River, as well as the construction of the city power station and the creation of a new freight station. He served as President of Krakow until his death. He died on 21 February 1918. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo! We're in favour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u385	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am very pleased that we can speak among our fellow Members from Krakow about Juliusz Lea. Mr Marshal, who is currently in session, is a Member from Krakow, a colleague of Mr Sonik just presented the project as a representative of the committee, and I wanted to add a few words on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to this debate. The figure of the great President of Krakow, who died 100 years ago, almost on the eve of regaining independence, is, in my opinion, a symbolic reminder that in the local government, when you act as president, you can and must have the format of a statesman, have a vision, recognize the deepest essence of your city, be an authority and leader giving tone to cultural, economic activities and be aware that the city is part of the Republic, which is intended to serve the unity of the nation and the country. This was the service of Julius Lea, a political culture in which he moved and is symbolized - not by particularism, but by the patriotic service of the whole country, then still enslaved and divided, but soon whole and independent, serving as president important, for many Poles of the most important city. He had a vision of the beloved city, the spiritual capital of Poland, reaching 100 years into the future. It is to him that we owe the urban momentum and urban space increased by many new districts. It was he who finalized the buyout of Wawel from Austrian hands and was the promoter of its renewal and restoration of its glory, he made a request supported by the city council to give 1 million crowns of donations from the city bank to the creation of the Polish legions, it was him who, as the Member has just mentioned, initiated the construction of the municipal power plant, the bridge, the regulation of the banks of the Vistula river, the estuaries, the transfer of the Rudawa river, who created new communication lines. However, in the ideal sense the order was: first, the spirit and essence of the cultural heart of Polishness, second, material prosperity. We remember the speech of the heroic President of Starzyński, which started with the words: I wanted Warsaw to be great. We also remember about giving a patriotic figure to the President of Warsaw by sleep. Lech Kaczyński. Indeed, self-government is not only administration, it is also a conviction of the great spiritual role of the most important cities of the Republic of Poland, of their importance in patriotic symbolism, in organizing a team of values of uniting Poles. This applies to Krakow, Warsaw, Poznań, Lublin, Częstochowa. Each city can and should have great statesmen or great ladies of state who will become true leaders and authorities for their fellow countrymen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club will vote for a resolution to pay tribute to the great President of Krakow on the 100th anniversary of his death. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u388	First of all, I would like to point out that the draft resolution was tabled by Marek Sowa on behalf of the Modern Club and the Civic Platform supports this resolution. Juliusz Leo had merit for Poland, bought Wawel from the Austrians, symbol of Polishness and proud Polish history and began its rescue and reconstruction, but it should be remembered especially this year - 100 years of regaining independence by Poland. He was the first president of 1914. Chief National Committee and co-founder of Polish Legions. In addition, at his request, the City Council provided a donation of 1 million kroner to the legions. And so Julius Lea's contribution to the uprising of legions is judged by one of historians Prof. Łukasz Sroka: Without Julius Lea, their creation could fail. When he learned of the order to liquidate the gun squads, he decided to act. He showed stubbornness, finesse, and pragmatism, which helped him to have a self-government experience that taught him to seek a wise compromise. He could lead to the fact that people from various political options wanted to work together to rebuild Poland. Considering all this, the Polish Parliament pays tribute to the memory of Juliusz Lea on the 100th anniversary of his death. Like I said, the Civic Platform Club supports this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u389	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In January this year, when the inhabitants and authorities of Krakow were preparing to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the death of Juliusz Lea, to commemorate this great man, a prominent Pole, but also the great president of the city of Krakow, among the inhabitants, but also in the modern environment, there was an idea that we could honor and commemorate this special person here in the Seym. My speakers have spoken, and I will also say that from the very beginning, President Julius Leo was a person who had a vision for the development of his city. Earlier, he served as a city councilman in Krakow for several years, he was also the vice president of the city, but he knew perfectly well that he had to provide the city with opportunities for development for the next decades. As Boy-Żeleński later said, he said that he gave the city a framework for development for the next 100 years. In some ways, it has come true. It enlarged the area of Krakow almost a hundred times. Very important in his activities were issues related to modernization, for the times, the city of Krakow, the construction of infrastructure, the development of this infrastructure, but also the elements that my previous speakers have already mentioned, connected with the sense of deep patriotism. The issue of the creation of Polish Legions, the purchase of the Royal Castle in Wawel from the Austrians in 1905 and the start of its thorough regeneration are the elements worth mentioning here. He was also a member of the Vienna Parliament, where he served as president of the Poles' Club in the Vienna Parliament. All these elements are extremely important. We did not have time to adopt this resolution on the 100th anniversary of his death, which came last week, but I am glad that we will be able to adopt this resolution at this meeting. I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs for their consistent work at the committee meeting, for the fact that this project is in a similar version to our proposal and is a kind of complement to this honoring of his person who took place last week in Krakow. There were sessions, scientific conferences, but there was also a symbolic unveiling of the statue of Julius Lea - the first monument, after 100 years, not in the center of the city, but on the border of the city, in the place where he joined Podgórze. For all of us who often talk and debate how a merger should take place [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether the connection to the cities of the surrounding municipalities is a pattern. He for joining Podgórze received the honorary title of citizen of Podgórze and managed to carry out these negotiations in agreement and consensus. Thank you all very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u391	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, European Union of Democrats and PSL, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u392	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Marshal has already been in good shape, after Mrs Pasławska's attention, he mentioned the whole name of the club. I'm very happy for you. We never doubted the kindness of your marshal towards us, so this mistake, which may have repeated several times, was certainly accidental, was not done on purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much, Mr Mark Sowa, for submitting this initiative. As Mrs PiS said, this is a big event for everyone who lives in Krakow who works there. The mention of this President is undoubtedly an honor, the opportunity to speak in this debate from this pulpit and to commemorate the anniversary of his death is an honor for us, and he deserves it of all means. All Members, starting with Mr Sonik, spoke of this - of his extraordinary insight and vision of the development of the city for 100 years ahead. Tadeusz Boy-Żeleński emphasized this in his statements, saying that he gave this development framework 100 years ahead. I think that many presidents who later served as presidents, including today's President Prof. Jack Majchrowski, continued this mission and fulfilled this development framework. They are beyond President Lea's vision today, but without his vision there would be no Krakow today. It is for us, for the inhabitants of Krakow, inhabitants of Małopolska and Poland, a special character, creator of Krakow, but also a model, indicated the way to independence. Wawel is an important symbol not only for our city, but also for the whole state, and legions are a symbol of freedom and independence. Juliusz Leo, president of the capital and royal city of Krakow, should accept eternal respect and homage. The unveiling of his monument, the first monument in Krakow, on 20 January this year, as Mr Marek Owa mentioned, is a special event. Today's resolution reminiscing of the 100th anniversary of his death is a homage to him due to his function and his dedication to the capital-royal city of Krakow, is also an expression of the appreciation of our entire homeland, this is how my parliamentary club treats it, for the development of one of the most important cities and co-founders of Polish independence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The whole club will vote in favour of the proposed resolution with pride and kindness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u393	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 27 February. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement is made by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns 42. The Piast Pole, which started in Yakuszyce, in Szklarska Poręba. Another Piast Run began at Jakuszycka Polana in Szklarska Poręba. It's a real cross-country ski festival. This extraordinary sports and recreation event will last 9 days. It will take 10 gears at different distances. At the start of the 42. The Piast Pole will stand at around 6,000. Skiers from all over the world. There will be races for professionals, but above all for amateurs, including beginners and of course for the youngest skiers, i.e. for kindergarteners. The main distance will be 50 km distance by classic style. The race will take place on March 3rd. The fourth year has been included in the FIS Worldloppet Cup, the World Cup in ski marathons. Thanks to the high-ranking event at the starting point of the Piast Mountains, leading skiers from the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Germany and the USA will perform, of course, and Scandinavians. The organizers hope that the queen of Polish ski Justyna Kowalczyk will take part in the 50 km run. On this extraordinary occasion it is necessary to recall the unique qualities of the Jakuszycka Pole for cross-country skiing. It is in Szklarska Poręba-Jakuszyce that the best conditions for cross-country skiing are the best in Poland and even in the world. Climate conditions and terrain allow you to organize ski competitions at the highest level in the world. The winter season in Jakuszycka Polana begins in November and continues until late spring. The snow cover is covered with a thick layer throughout the season. Skiing tours are 14 trails with a total length of more than 100 km. All routes form loops and join together, giving you the opportunity to choose an individual route tailored to the opportunities and needs of skiers. Terrain causes a significant variation in the degree of difficulty of the different routes. The highest point on the routes is 1003 m above sea level. The Piast Run Association is the only cross-country skiing centre in Poland, which has the worldwide approval of FIS skiing trails. All participants of the Piast Pole are ambassadors promoting running, cross-country skiing and Poland around the world. I invite all Members to participate in the 42nd anniversary of the Piast Pole, an unforgettable sport and recreation adventure. I would like to stress that some of our Members take part every year in this phenomenal competition, in this phenomenal snow party in Yakuszyce, in Szklarska Poręba. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u395	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 March I was to perform at a commemorative ceremony dedicated to the memory of the cursed soldiers, or as others say: solid soldiers, in my home town, Starogard Gdansk. This will not be possible, and that is why I am addressing the people of Starogard from this place today, the district of Starogard with these words. For several years now, the day of March 1 is the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. On 4 March in Starogard Gdansk, the Wolf's Footsteps will be held to commemorate the memory of our heroes. It must have been many years before Poland claimed our national heroes. According to their oppressors, these soldiers were to die twice - once biologically, murdered by Communist agents in the service of a foreign state, and again by forgetting them and erase them from the collective memory of society. After World War II as a result of another betrayal of the Allies after the Yalta conference, Poland entered the Soviet sphere of influence. This meant losing our national identity, our culture and national values. Our society did not agree with this reality. Many soldiers of the Home Army and other armed forces did not trust the communists, did not come out of the woods, remaining in hidden human structures underneath independence. In the post-war period, they engaged in an uneven struggle to save Poland. They protected the population of Polish towns and villages from self-will and aggression by security officers. Those wonderful soldiers of the period of war and the German and Soviet occupation, who were lucky to have survived the war, were fiercely hunted after the war by traitors of our homeland. They died as a result of sophisticated tortures given to them by Polish - speaking servants loyal to Moscow. Also in Kociewia since 1946 5. The Vilnius National Army Brigade under Major's command. Zygmunt the Szendzielarz of Szupęski. Three squadrons of cavalry counted about 150 people, engaged in an uneven fight with the security camera, the army, the MO, the UB and the NKVD. The presence of soldiers of the Polish underground of independence protected the local population from the self-will of the officers of the Security Office, who plundered, robbed and oppressed poor inhabitants of Kotiv villages. They freed the arrested and punished the traitors in the highest measure of punishment. Progressive Sovietism, brutal violence against soldiers of the underworld of independence, plugs and snitches, which sometimes managed to penetrate the structures, resulted in further arrests and breakouts of independence personnel. Terror and fear applied to the population supporting forest troops resulted in a lack of assistance and consequently a lack of backup for soldiers. The reports and betrayals contributed to the destruction of forest troops. Let the severe punishments and death sentences to which the steadfast soldiers have been subjected oblige us, contemporaries, to remember our national heroes and gratitude. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we are celebrating the 37th anniversary of the signing of the crowd-stranger agreements. On the night of 18 to 19 February 1981 in Rzeszów agreements were signed between representatives of the communist government of the Polish People's Republic and the striking farmers and supporting their representatives of the NSZZ A day later similar agreements were concluded in the Lower mouths. These agreements, known under the common name of the Rzeszow-Sztrzych agreements, were the fourth nationwide agreements - after Szczecin, Gdańsk and Jastrzębski - which the communist authorities signed with independent representatives of Polish society, and the first ones in which the demands of villagers were taken into account. The agricultural strike in Podkarpacie began on 29 December 1980 the occupation of the building of the City and Municipal Office in Ustrzyki Dolne. Bieszczadzki farmers provoked protest, among others. announcement of forced displacement in connection with the construction of a government center in Arlamów. On January 12, 1981, protesters in the Lower mouths removed the militia by force. At that time, the strikers moved to Rzeszow and joined the protest of representatives of the workers occupying the building of the Kolejarz House - the seat of the disbanded regional council of trade unions. The strikers were supported by the National Commission of NSZZ and the Catholic Church led by Fr. Archbishop Ignatius Tokarczuk. Just recently we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the birth of this great priest, the unbreakable bishop. Several thousand people took part in the strike that lasted over a month and a half. Local activists were joined by representatives of peasant organizations from other regions of Poland. On 18 February, the agreement was finally negotiated in Rzeszów. The protocol containing the determination was signed shortly after midnight on 19 February 1981. In the agreements farmers obtained guarantees of non-infringement of farm ownership and inheritance rights, equal treatment of individual farmers and cooperative agriculture, ensuring the abolition of restrictions on the marketing of agricultural land. A number of worldview provisions were also included, among others. concerning freedom in religious construction and access to religious practices, the extension of schools and kindergartens in rural areas has also been declared. The peasant strike ended with the signing of the Rzeszow-Sztrzych agreements contributed to the establishment and registration of NSZZ (Solidarity of Individual Farmers). The original copy of the Rzeszow-Ostrzyckie agreements was transferred personally in 2006 to the Jasna Góra Pro Patria Foundation during the National Pilgrimage of Labour People to Jasna Góra. High Izbo! Today, in view of the historical importance of the throng-string agreements, already under new systemic conditions, let us ensure the sustainable development of the whole country, including in rural areas. The fight against striking farmers in 1980 and 1981 is an obligation for us to protect the wealth of the Polish village and defend the Polish land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, the law on public disclosure has entered into force, leading to opposition from certain backgrounds. The letters of the local government calling for the help of the Members on this bill were sent to my parliamentary office. The bill raises understandable concerns. It provides for the creation of an open register of civil law contracts in the public sector, proposes a new model of open declarations of property, imposes an obligation to keep a register of civil law contracts, including units of the public finance sector. It assumes transparency and responsibility for decisions made, giving published property statements a mass character. It also includes data on spouses of persons in management positions performing public functions. Based on the experience of other European countries, the Act establishes and regulates the status of a whistleblower, a man who will obtain professional and legal protection for information on corruption. The Act also sets out a list of persons whose statements will be made public. These will be statements of property of persons holding managerial positions in various state institutions. All of these procedures are designed to reduce practices and irregularities, among others. financial, treatment and benefits obtained by means of positions occupied. The Act will very quickly introduce legal order where it has not yet been achieved. In our country, everyone has eyes and sees a lot, and even a lot, but so far there has been no legal mechanism that would clear and fairly eliminate public corruption and point to irregularities in the management of state assets, that is, our common. I thank you on behalf of all Poles and Poles for this bill, because we are all equal to the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u401	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the current term of office, the PiS Sejm has been saying that it cares so much about the children and care for the poorest parents with children, and that you are taking money from the maintenance fund from many poor, single mothers. Another year in a row, you have raised your minimum salary, which, of course, I support, but you forget to raise the threshold for using the maintenance fund and the 500+ education allowance. A single parent with one child earning 1601 PLN does not get paid for support from a maintenance fund or 500+. At today's prices and galloping inflation, maintaining such money is bordered by a miracle, especially with a child. In this way, the state exposes such families to poverty and exclusion. There is a very high risk that next year, after the next increase in the minimum wage, everyone who earns the lowest national, i.e. working at all, will be deprived of State aid. It cannot be that the minimum wage will result in a lack of child support from the maintenance fund. Under the current conditions, the minimum wage is growing slower than many of the first-needed products. We cannot look at inflation, i.e. rising prices throughout the economy. Let's take a look at the rise in the prices of first-needed articles. Maintaining the threshold for the use of the maintenance fund for 10 years at the same level makes it possible for people who really need financial assistance to receive benefits. Are you going to change that? If so, how and when? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u403	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! For the eighth time, we will celebrate the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. It is a holiday established by law in the rank of a state holiday based on the project of President Lech Kaczyński. At this point I would like to thank the Polish Army, who tirelessly participate in celebrations commemorating the enchanted soldiers. Especially this involvement of the Polish Army was intensified at the time when Mr Antoni Macierewicz was Minister of National Defence. The special words of thanks are for such an attitude, which causes it to flourish in rural environments, even in small towns, patriotism, because with its participation the Polish Army confirms the heroism of the cursed soldiers. We also know that the units of a new type of Armed Forces - the Territorial Defence Army - were taking on their patrons of the cursed soldiers. For this, the words of the highest discretion are due. The meetings on 1 March on the day of the cursed soldiers have already become a nationwide tradition. It is not a privilege, however, but a commitment to all those murdered in communist catholic soldiers, defenders of our freedom and faith. Many of them have not yet been extracted from the pits of death derogatory to human dignity. These places must still be searched for and identified as victims of violence, restored to their trampled dignity. However, there are still people in our nation who, today, are closer to communist reality than those heroic soldiers who did not hesitate to give their lives for their homeland, for their honour, for the truth about Poland and Poles. Let us be courageous and relentless in investigating the truth. We have the right to freedom, which requires manifesting patriotism and attachment to the values of our ancestors. We have the right to be proud of national heroes. Our nation is great, for all hosts of cursed, steadfast soldiers set an example for us, how not to yield to weakness and overcome evil. Courage, strength of spirit, and valour are qualities that have not passed through our hearts. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u405	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u406	On 2 May 2017, the 120th anniversary of the birth of Adolf Hyła, a Polish painter who was the author of one of the most famous images of Jesus the Merciful Jesus, I trust you. Adolf Hyła was born on 2 May 1897 in Biała near Bielska. At the age of 15, he joined the Jesuits College in the Old Village, where he received lower religious ordinations. After his graduation, he studied philosophy at the Jagiellonian University. Drawing and painting he studied with Jack Malczewski. In his painting he focused mainly on religious subjects. He is also the author of several dozen portraits, including family portraits, self-portraits and the image of Brother Albert, as well as many Tatra landscapes. However, the most famous work of Adolf Hyła is the painting depicting Jesus the Merciful Jesus, I trust you, which is located in the religious chapel at the Sanctuary of Divine Mercy in Krakow-Łagiewniki. Based on the description provided by St. Faustina in the Diary and talks with Faustina Kowalska's Confessor Adolf Hyła painted a painting of the Merciful Jesus. This image, along with the worship of God's mercy, spread throughout the world. It is one of the most famous paintings of Jesus the Resurrection. About the painting of Adolf Hyła in 1997 in Łagiewniki, John Paul II said: "Everyone can come here, look at this image of the merciful Christ, at his heart radiating with graces and deep down to hear what he has heard - do not be afraid of anything, I am always with you. And if he answers Jesus with a sincere heart, I trust in you, he will find comfort in all anxiety and fear. The images of Jesus the Merciful by Adolf Hyla are all over the world and are an important part of the worship of God's mercy. So let us pay tribute to the Polish painter, whose painting work is the most recognizable and widely distributed picture of Jesus the Merciful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-27-sejm-59-1.u407	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 28 February 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 08]]
