ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u1	I open the 60th third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I'm assigning Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Mark Pęk to the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome... Oh, you're here now, so I'm not asking you to take your seats. I inform you that the Sejm at its sixty-sixth meeting on 5 July 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Law on Investments in Condensed Natural Gas Regasification Terminal in Świnoujście and some other laws; to the Act amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws; to the Law on tachographs; to the Act amending the Law on Property of Locations; to the Act amending the Law on Trade Unions and some other laws; to the Act on the Management of Successive Enterprises of a Natural Person; to the Act amending the Act on Trust Services and Electronic Identification and some other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 60th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Izbo, I inform you that on 28 June 2018, the Minister of Interior and Administration informed the Senate about the activities of the Police as defined in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.21 of the Police Act, including the information and data referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law for 2017. This information is provided in print No 885. On 3 July 2018, I sent information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed me at its meeting on 5 July 2018. In addition, I would like to inform you that on 15 June 2018, the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for operational control. It is contained in print number 876. On 24 June 2018, I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed me at its meeting on 5 July 2018. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would remind you that the draft laws to be discussed in items 7 and 8 of the agenda have been submitted by the Council of Ministers as urgent projects. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. I inform you senators that, in view of the fact that no report has been drawn up on the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and of the Senator, the point concerning this Act has not been included on the agenda presented. Following the preparation of the report by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on this law. High Izbo, I propose that items 1 and 2 of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office 2017 be deleted from the agenda. This item will be considered at the next Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the points: the tenth, i.e. Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws and consider this item as item one of the agendas; the sixth, i.e. Laws amending the Law. Hunting Law and certain other laws and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda; the 11th, i.e. Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport . and to consider it after the fourth paragraph of the Act on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour; the first, i.e. Act amending the Law on Free Legal Aid and Legal Education and certain other laws . and to consider it after the previous eleventh point concerning the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and rail. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I now propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Law on Higher Education and Science and consider this item as item 3 of the agenda; Law. Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science and to consider this item as the fourth item of the agenda; the Act on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship and consider this item as item 13 of the agenda, after the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Waste Act; the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws and consider this item as the 14th agenda; State aid law for housing expenditure in the first years of renting an apartment and consider it as item 16 of the agenda after considering the Law on Free Legal Assistance; the Law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments and its consideration as item 17 of the agenda; the Law on the National Cybersecurity System and consider it as item 18 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Dear Senators, I propose a joint examination of points three and four, i.e. Laws on higher education and science law, and the combined consideration of 10th and 11th paragraphs, i.e. Act amending the Waste Act and some other laws and Act amending the Environmental Inspection Act and some other laws. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, it is only now the most important information. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm informing you... Maybe not yet. I would like to inform you that we will join us today after 4 p.m. to consider a point concerning the Law on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. Tomorrow, after the re-election of the session at 10.00, we will proceed with the examination of the point concerning the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century, the so far second point, and the point concerning the Act amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, the so-called third point. I inform you senators that, following the preparation of the report by the competent senate committee, the agenda may be supplemented by a point concerning the Law amending the Law on tax regulation and certain other laws. On Wednesday 11 July, the Senate's deliberations will continue until 2 p.m. I would like to inform you that this meeting will be extended by additional days, i.e. Friday 13 July and Saturday 14 July. The Senate will resume its proceedings on Friday at 6 p.m. I would like to inform you that on 12 July, on Thursday, the 3rd Summit of the Presidents of the Parliaments of the Central and Eastern European States will be held. Ladies and gentlemen, I kindly remind you that on 13 July 2018, at 12.00 a.m. on Friday, the National Assembly convened for the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland will be held in the Royal Castle, at which the President of the Republic of Poland will give a message. Before the National Assembly at 10 a.m. in the Archicathedral of St. John the Baptist will be celebrated the Holy Mass. Autocars for those who wish to attend the Holy Mass will leave from 9.00 a.m. from Maszyńskiego Street. Those who do not attend the Holy Mass and who intend to go directly to the meeting of the National Assembly may take advantage of the bus rides leaving Maszyńskiego Street at 11.10 a.m. Places in the Chamber of the National Assembly should be occupied by 11.45 p.m. The senators' desks have distributed IDs, information about the seat number in the National Assembly room and general information about the ceremony. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 873, and the committee report In print No 873 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Report of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation adopted by the Sejm on 15 June 2018 on amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. Changes introduced in geological and mining law, so-called. the economic package is intended to facilitate the extension of mining concessions to businesses, which will expire in the coming years. The proposed amendments are intended to facilitate the extension of existing concessions for the extraction of hard coal, brown coal and domestic sulphur. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The procedures in force in the Act do not guarantee the termination of the extension of the concession before its expiry... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Part of the concession has been renewed within a period of time and the rest awaits long-term and detailed arrangements which may occur after the expiry of the existing concessions. The extension requires 18 coal mining concessions and 6 lignite mining concessions. During the discussion, 1 amendment was tabled, which was voted and accepted by the committees. I ask the Senate to adopt a revision of the law on mining and geological law and certain other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Mariusz Orion Jędryska, Secretary of State, chief geologist of the country and government representative for the raw material policy of the state. Minister, do you wish to speak? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law is of great economic importance, it simplifies certain agreements that have so far been lasting and raised... Sometimes there have been major problems with the renewal of concessions. At the same time, the Act allows the interests of the State to be protected when the situation so requires. The law, which is very important, secures our interests in the exclusive economic zone in the Baltic by the ability to control what is happening there, what potential researchers, companies looking for do, and also improves the possibilities of implementing know-how, embodiment of this knowledge, cooperation of foreign industry with our science. These are the basic elements, of course not all of them, of this bill. I'm counting on her to find some understanding with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u5	Thank you very much. Minister, just a moment... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in connection with this bill, I have this question. There is a concept to manage the bottom of the Baltic Sea as a place where wind power plants are intensively located, at the right distance from the shore. So, uh... I have heard that there are proposals that even 20 km from the coastline of this type of farm should be created. For various reasons, this would be in line with the current trend in the use of renewable energy sources. I have a question: does this law include this aspect? Planting such devices requires geological testing, because they are engineering complex structures. Does this law take into account this trend regarding the construction of wind power stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u7	Thank you very much. One moment, Minister. 3 senators and 3 questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Good.]] Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and later Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u8	Minister, will this bill make it easier to obtain concessions for mining brown coal for the Pątnów-Adamów-Konin power plant?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ryszka. You're welcome, Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, let me get this straight: does this law in practice abolish the rules of negotiations with municipalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u11	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u12	Just a little bit. The law does not, of course, ignore the municipalities, it is not that it will ignore the municipalities at all, but it simplifies the procedure very much and accelerates it. About the second question. Okay, I'm gonna start backwards. That was the question about one of the power plants. No, it's not relevant. This law simplifies the extension of concessions in the same geological space as is already in operation. We're prolonging because someone didn't get the fossil till the end of the license. We want him to be able to finish this because it's about sustainable development and management of the deposit. And the third question. This law helps a little bit to control geophysical research in this area, but it does not directly affect the position of the power plant. In this case, it's more complex and know-how. [[And the windmills?]] [[And the windmills.]] I just answered that question... [[Now, right? First, second and third questions...]] She doesn't concern it, she doesn't regulate it. As far as windmills are concerned, this is very shallow geology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u13	Thank you very much. You're asking Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u14	The Senator rapporteur said that some companies did not have time to submit applications for renewal or concession. Can the Minister tell you what kind of companies didn't make it? What companies will this change be about? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: If I may... Practically these are companies with...]] Polish, foreign? What kind of companies are these?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u15	Okay, okay, okay, okay, These are virtually exclusively companies with state-controlled capital and exclusively Upper Silesian capital, except one dealing with brown coal. Why didn't they make it? Well, that's a question for the management boards of these companies, the management boards that have been running for the last ten years, let's say. [[But I asked...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But wait a minute, wait a minute, we don't have a dialogue. Question, answer and...]] State, state. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u16	Mr. Marshal, we don't ask anybody questions and we can't answer anybody's questions. [[I'll repeat that question. So, please...]] You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will once again ask the question that you have asked here before Senator Augustine. I'd like to make that sound really bad. Will this law make it easier for PAK to obtain a licence for mining and exploitation of brown coal from the Oczkowice deposit? We know that PAK has approved this deposit, but will it make it easier to obtain a license? By the way, has PAK already asked the Ministry for a mining licence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u18	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u19	Thank you very much. I have a question of a more general nature. Namely, at one time much was said about the so-called shale gas, about the extraction of cracks. Is this bill going to come up against anyone who might want to volunteer for this kind of activity and take the risk of looking for such deposits? Perhaps the Minister would like to bring it up to speed and tell us what this problem looks like at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u20	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? This is Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. And then another tour.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u21	Minister, what companies of the Treasury 'Cause I understand it only applies to companies like this. Didn't they have time to apply for a licence? I'm gonna need some information on what it is. If you're not able to say it right now, I'd ask for written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u22	Wait a minute. Yes, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u23	I'll answer right away. These are all companies that... first of all, they're PGG. These are the things... Which mines, exactly? I don't know that right now. It's ok. 20 concessions so that... [[I would therefore ask for a written reply.]] We were able to extend some before the passing of time. Actually, what I promised, we did. And for the second time... When I promised that by September 15th last year we would present a draft amendment to the bill, then we did it. And the third... Well, we have actually now, today, what's going on... And I'm sure the M.E.'s still alive. I'm sure it's the Home Office. This concerns practically all these Polish entities, to a greater or lesser extent. As I understand it, I answered. Second question: PAK. Mr. Senator, under no circumstances does this amendment apply to new concessions. She only concerns the renewal of the concession. And the answer to the second question: no, PAK has not applied for a licence so far. So that the discussion on this subject is, in fact, pointless from the point of view of the authorities. And case three, the gas in the slates. The gas in the slates was... The first concessions were issued by the Government of Law and Justice in 2007, and I was the country's main geologist at the time. It was, you could say, a little individual idea and many thought it was completely crazy and impossible. In the United States it was just being born, there was still very little production, almost, you can say, hobbyistic. Yeah, but then it really changed the world. And you see now, everyone can see that basically without the gas in the slates the price and the oil and the gas would be completely different. And another would be geopoliticalism, not just energy security or financial security. In my opinion, the gas in shale in Poland is. Unfortunately, what happened after 2007, no changes in the law, no organisational changes to prepare you for such large investments This is a powerful investment that goes into billions, but very specific, because it obliges the state to behave in a certain way towards the investor... Unfortunately, this has not been properly resolved, as we did in the 2007 plan, in this strategy adopted in the Ministry. So that's it. Legal negligence, organizational negligence and the release of all or almost all concessions at the same time, all of which were possible or even impossible, even senseless, in this strip of slate, caused us to lose, I apologize for colloquialism, carrots, and we didn't have a stick anymore. Because legally and organisationally we were not prepared, and since we gave all the concessions, no one competed for them. So the investors didn't look, they didn't apply... I mean. They didn't drill. The reason for all this to be summarised briefly was: the investment risk increased several times. And this change in geological law already greatly reduces investment risk. The second element will be the establishment of the Polish Geological Agency, this will be the organisational change. And then actually, after the introduction of these two elements, after this change of law and after... That's where we have an investor bid. So we're giving the possibility that the investor says, "I want to search here, please make a bid." And if the Ministry... That's the tender you're gonna make. But the other part that we're still working on in the government is missing. There's a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of false information. It is about setting up a geological agency, separating it from the National Geological Institute, dividing it in about half. It's going to be an executive agency. It's going to be an executive agency. The National Geological Institute. So we have and that's what I'm going to say, a scientific leg, and an organizational leg. And we're just building a whole strategy around it. Really, we have huge potential, and we can't use it because we're still organically weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski is reporting for questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u25	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask what is the issue of maintaining or issuing a concession for the Złoczew deposit, which is necessary to prolong the operation of the Bełchatów plant. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: I mean, I don't see...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u26	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Wait a minute. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Oh, sorry.]] We'll group three questions each. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Yes, of course.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, Minister, I think we should also be aware that Polish natural wealth, apart from coal, brown coal, is also sulphur. And I would like to ask if this law protects our national interests in the field of sulphur extraction, sulphur exploitation, especially so-called. home sulphur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u28	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to... You're welcome, Senator Marian the Sheriff. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, my question may not be directly related to this law, but indirectly, yes. It is a list of strategic raw materials and possible placement on this list of Oczkowice deposits. Can the Minister say anything about this when this list is and is it planned that this will be on this list? This is particularly the question in the context of the general departure from coal energy and the need to secure raw materials for this energy. We know very well that Poland also undertakes to produce more RES and coal energy will be extinguished. Is there any sense in making this deposit on the strategic list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u30	Thank you. That's three questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Złoczew. As far as Złoczew is concerned, I do not see significant problems with the granting of concessions, provided that all formal requirements are met. And that's basically all you can say. I don't see any threats. I myself will be happy if this concession can be granted. Sulfur, the nation's business... Yeah, I totally agree with that. I remember how, in the years 2005-2007, when I had a sad duty to participate in the work of some teams concerning the decommissioning of sulphur mining in Poland, I protested very strongly against it. But this machine ran off at the end of the 1990s, actually in the two thousand years, at the beginning of the two thousand, and basically if something had already started to be removed, it had to be completed. I hope that there will be two new concessions, one in a very large area, the other in a smaller... Final procedures are completed in the scope of 2 concessions, one is already completed, the other is in the process of... So that's a good thing, because sulfur... The world has aspirationed with sulfur from flue gas desulfurization, from desulfurization of fossil fuels, coal, oil, but it turns out that for some purposes this sulphur is not suitable, because it has significant impurities, additives that cannot be removed easily or practically cannot be removed at all. And the sulphur, which is in Polish deposits, is quite unique, ladies and gentlemen, because it is sulphur, which has been produced in quotes. By bacteria, it's a bacterial process, perfectly pure sulphur... And then, when we've already started to liquidate it, the sulphur price started to rise, and out of twenty-six dollars it's increased to over 100 dollars, and there was even a period that it was a few hundred dollars a ton. I hope that the high price of this superpure sulphur will continue and Poland will be able to benefit from it. Well, there are other environmental issues, of course, but that's a separate matter. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u32	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[And my question...]] [[I'd like to clarify.]] Yes? More? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u33	Minister, I'd like to ask you... to clarify my colleague's question about sulphur from native deposits. I mean whether, in the case of those concessions that will be issued, there will also be simplified procedures and whether, among the two concessions that have been issued, there is a concession for the Podkarpackie region.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u34	I'm not gonna tell the senator what he's like right now... As far as Basznia is concerned, the concession was given about a year ago, I wouldn't give the exact date. It was a very efficient process. But this amendment to the bill doesn't regulate the issuing, the granting of concessions. It regulates only the extension, as it were in the same geological space, of the ability to obtain raw materials. That's all. So that it has a very limited scope, as far as this is concerned, but a very large economic impact. And thanks to the amendments that the senators have proposed, it also applies to sulphur. I think it's everything, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u35	Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have not answered my question about the list of strategic raw materials and the Oczkowice deposit in the context of the extinction of coal energy in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u37	Now, now, yes. List of strategic accounts, so often discussed in the press, in the media There is no such thing. We are preparing, finishing in principle a document of the State's raw material policy. This is, for the time being, a project adopted by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, after a public consultation. And right now we are concluding a very large public consultation on the various pillars of raw materials policy. Because raw material policy is built of 9 pillars. Each of the pillars consists of many tasks, several tasks, and some of them are sub-tasks. For each of these sub-tasks or tasks there will or is already an executive program. This means that one of these implementing programmes will be to classify deposits that should be protected. We would call it deposit protection, which is legally defined, but we would not call it a list of strategic raw materials, because it must come from the interests of the companies themselves, and it must be controlled by the state, but also from the state itself, of course, in cooperation with the Minister of Energy. The Minister of the Environment or a representative of the Government for Raw Materials Policy of the State is unable to make such a list on its own. This list must, of course, also be consulted socially. Ochkowice isn't on that list. As far as Oczkowice is concerned, it is a very large deposit with a huge potential for extraction, but with powerful problems, especially water problems, unsolved until today. So that talking today about granting mining concessions is at least premature and even more premature, because it is approved by the previous government geological documentation as regards this deposit, but there is no hydrogeological documentation, and in this case That's the key. To us, to the officials, to my knowledge, there was no request to approve such documentation, I do not know anything about it, and I don't think there's a very good chance of solving this problem quickly. I would have evaluated this process for many, many years since I even started talking about it. In fact, these great conversations that take place, they are, you can say, sorry, unobtrusive.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u38	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. One concerns the Geoinfonet system. He will not be introduced or implemented. The question is, what's in return? Are we giving up the tasks that this system was supposed to make easier for us, or is there going to be some other tool? The second question concerns rare earth elements. I'll admit it's just out of curiosity... Minister, why... Do we have any deposits of rare earths? Why are we only doing this now? We know how important this is for the development of technology, mostly electronics. Has anything new come up, and that's why we're bringing it in now?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u40	The first question was Geoinfonet. The Geoinfonet system was named in geological and mining law, but it remained completely undefined, nothing was prepared. And in order to create such a system, first of all, there has to be funding, a whole plan for many years. We found in 2015, at the end of 2015. I mean, there was nothing, nothing was prepared in this area, except the name itself in geological law and mining law. At the same time, the system that worked, which was tried to do, the ZSI, the Integrated Information System, we also found... Well, it turned out to be unrealized or even unrealized. I'm sorry to say that the first or second review of this case ended in a report to the D.A.'s office. As far as I know, there's a report under review by the D.A.'s office, and I don't know when it's gonna end. The Geoinfonet system itself was, you have to say it clearly, the soap bubble, there was nothing there. So of course I do... what's next? The establishment of the Polish Geological Agency will significantly change the system of trading geological information. This executive agency will manage and protect geological information and will also acquire it and make it available to relevant entities under appropriate conditions. Today it is, you can say, a little in the ministry's hands, but actually in the hands of the State Geological Institute, where scientists work, have their own interests and needs to publish. We can say that there are a number of ambiguities, I will say euphemistically, in terms of geological information, the circulation of geological information and its sharing. Unfortunately, there are companies that tell me how we're supposed to give everything how we're afraid it's gonna come out? That's what they say in the cockroaches, and everyone knows it, it's not a secret. We have to take care of the geological information. Geological information is all that we collected at the drilling site: geophysics, scientific research, geological documentation, cores. It must all be secured at last. For this to be done, the executive agency has to deal with it, this is the best model, this model operates in most countries, you can say, developed, civilized. Not scientific units. [[Elements of rare earths.]] Oh, rare earth elements. Well, rare earth elements are a special group of elements that, after being housed, especially to some alloys, dramatically change their quality. E.g. The magnet becomes many times stronger after the neodymium is housed. Standard magnet, steel magnet, size, let's say, this glass has a certain pull force. And if we added to it, for example. neodymium, then a magnet the size of such a small tablet would have the same pull force. This means that the economy, technology, also the space industry, aviation, all electronics, etc. are changing dramatically. Poland has not yet owned mining property... As regards the geological resources of the State Treasury, there was virtually no such concept, there was no such term. Therefore, we introduce it, we consider it to be a fossil, or maybe we'll license it here... Some rare earth elements are... But in order to be able to tell what these elements are and how much they have to be done, geological documentation must be done. In turn, in order to be geological documentation, it must be the subject of these documentations, i.e. it must be introduced into the law of the rare earth elements. So that we have a big case ahead of us. But there's another thing I want to talk about by the way. Well, we have a signed contract with the International Maritime Day Organisation. Right now, literally at the UN right now, in Kingston, Jamaica. There is a seat of the International Maritime Day Organisation We can expect a huge amount of rare earth elements there. Poland, as one of the 7 countries in the world, has such a contract when it comes to massive sulphurs, with a large addition of rare earth elements. It's in the middle of the Atlantic. We're counting on it to give our generations... As I was right about the gas in the slates, I was ridiculed when I wanted to issue concessions, but I actually gave them away. Yes, and here I am absolutely convinced that I am right. This is really the future of the world when it comes to raw materials management.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u41	Thank you very much. I don't think there are any more questions. At least I don't see people willing. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Thank you.]] Are you... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has disappeared, but as I understand it, the Minister has committed himself to giving a written answer to the question you have asked... [[He answered.]] ... Marshal Borusewicz, right? [[But the Minister replied.]] [[He answered.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: I answered, but if the marshal wishes...]] Well, your marshal isn't here right now, and we can't consult, so maybe just in case... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: In my opinion...]] ...if the Minister will allow it. Okay? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Naturally. It was about the list of companies, entities. Okay, we can do this.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Mr. Adam Gawada.]] Mr Gawada... Senator, I'm so sorry, Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make an amendment, but before I do so, I would like to say a few sentences, to make a few comments on the contested legislation. Maybe not so much comments as your own opinions and observations. Well, we're discussing a very important bill. We must be aware that regardless of the power that is now being transferred to the power of the local government... In the law, such an important law, the mining and geological constitution, which is the Geological and Mining Law, in Article. 10 is the determination of mining ownership. This mining property concerns coal, methane occurring as accompanying fossil, brown coal, salt, radioactive elements, metals, ore... And in the further paragraph of this article, it is specified that mining property belongs to the Treasury. The situation that we are dealing with and proposed by the Minister for the Environment is affecting the most important constitutional protection of indigenous deposits, security, which I believe will determine the proper and good use of our indigenous deposits in the future. Well, we have often faced such a situation that the concessions granted were a kind of blockade for further activities not only in search, but also in exploratory, but also in mining finals. This law defines the government of the State, or the Treasury in a quite precise manner. In an essential way, Article. 29 says when there may not be a licence for exploration, exploration and extraction, and art. 37 says when this concession can be repealed. That is why, in order to protect what is owned by the State Treasury, it is defined in Article. Ten of this bill. This is why the acceleration of the concession process, as often requested by the directors of mines or finally the CEOs of companies, is intended to enable and improve the concession process. I've met with this situation a lot. Of course, the mining municipalities in which the business is carried out should have an impact on the opinion, but it has often been so that the negative opinion or the failure to agree on the traffic plan of a given mining plant, which is part of the company... In our case, in Silesia, these are mainly 3 companies, i.e. Polska Grupa Górnicza, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa i Węglokoks, which conduct business activity. The difficulty of the concession process led to the fact that in the near future most of these plants could not operate smoothly and safely and therefore the improvement of the concession process meets expectations. But there is also a difficulty here in how much self-government can interfere with what is a fundamental issue. To put it so colloquially: deposits which are in the territory of the Republic of Poland, we cannot move to another area and we have always been associated with very serious dilemmas, often tensions and often discussions on the line: on the one hand, the licensing authority and the entrepreneur who declared the desire to renew the concession or to change the traffic plan, and on the other hand, local government units, which, seeing their opportunities for development, often put on the scales preventing further exploitation and restricting the use of our deposits. I am talking about this here because, in a sense, I would like to make it clear how important the bill is now being examined, how important the conclusions of the Minister's speech are. So far, there have been no instruments that could effectively and efficiently prevent the performance of concessions or result in the withdrawal of concessions granted to businesses. It's about those concessions that weren't directly granted to drive the extraction of a given deposit. Whether it's hard coal or brown coal But in order to somehow prevent further effective and economically viable activities. Therefore, in my deep opinion, the law regulates these specific issues, giving priority to the licensing authority in a way that in one case it may restrict the concession or refuse to grant it, or otherwise. Abolish this concession. I propose an amendment to the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. This amendment includes transitional provisions. About the specifics... I noticed the need for such a change in the article. 19 and that is why I am making an amendment to the article in the hands of the marshal. 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Gazweda. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Indeed, the government supports this change, this amendment. She's legislative, but very important, more specific. That's all. I'm counting on the committee to take it. If it were possible, I would ask you to relieve me of my obligation to be in committee today because I have a very urgent departure at the moment. The Ministry will represent the official. [[Good.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item two of the agenda: the law on amending the law on hunting and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 872, and the committee report In print No 872 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, which took place on 26 June, concerning the amendment of the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. The Act modifies the current model of estimation of hunting damages by handing over to the voivodship advisory centres the tasks previously assigned to the municipalities and their auxiliary units. Therefore, in the procedure for estimating damage to crops and agricultural fetuses caused by wild boars, elk, deer, dwarfs and deer, as well as damage caused by hunting, instead of the representative of the municipality responsible for the place of injury, a representative of the provincial agricultural advisory centre responsible for the place of injury will be involved. An application for an assessment of the damage shall be submitted to the manager or owner of the hunting circuit, who shall also be responsible for drawing up the protocols outside the completion of the inspection and after the final estimation. The Act also amends the Forest Law, which will allow forest fund funds from specific sources to be used to reimburse flat-rate costs for the participation of representatives of the provincial agricultural advisory centres in the estimation of hunting damages and the compensation for these damages. In addition, the funds from this fund can be used to finance specific actions in forests in the permanent use of national parks. In addition, amendments have been made to the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units concerning the financing of the participation of representatives of voivodship agricultural advisory centres in the estimation and compensation of hunting damages. The Sejm passed a bill at its sixty-fourth meeting. It was a seym project. The Commission unanimously gave a positive opinion on the amendment to the Act. I ask the High House to accept the proposed amendments without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Florek. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] I don't think you can hear me. I'm sorry. [[...I can't hear you yet...]] I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u48	It's okay now. Thank you, I'm sorry, I misplaced the card. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you said that an application for damage assessment sam before me will be submitted to the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit. And that's the change. I'd like to know what it was like before. Because I don't have the original law here and why this change. Why to the manager of the hunting circuit, not e.g. To the ODR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u49	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. I think the Minister will respond in a later debate, if any.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u50	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint examination of points 3 and 4 of the agenda: the Law on Higher Education and Science; the Law on Law on Higher Education and Science; the Law on Law on Higher Education and Science. The texts of the laws are contained in prints No 888 and No 889 and the Commission's reports In prints No 888 A and No 889 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present a report to the committee on the Law on Higher Education and Science, and then on the Law on the Law on Higher Education and Science. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: No.]] The senator's closing in on us, so... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Come on in, Mr. Senator. [[I'm coming.]] Take a breath. [[May I?]] You're welcome, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 9 July, i.e. yesterday, the Commission for Science, Education and Sports considered 2 laws: Law on Higher Education and Science, Senate Printing No. 888, and Law on Law on Higher Education and Science, Senate Printing No. 889. It should be stressed here that the preparation for this law lasted over 2 years. I would like to remind you that the Minister has set up three teams submitted by the environments concerned, followed by a number of debates, discussions, as well as regional conferences on selected topics, culminated in the National Science Congress last September. The first version of the Law on Higher Education was also presented there. Further consultations followed, further amendments were made At both the stage of the process of the draft law by the government and later in the Sejm. It can be said that the amendments and demands are still coming, and we received numerous e-mails, correspondence yesterday before the committee meeting. So that there is no doubt that the recovery in this area and the interest is great. Many guests were invited to the committee meeting in room 217. I have to say, fearing whether the room can accommodate everyone... By 10:00, we were expecting calls. All those who wanted to attend the meeting were able to gather in this room. Anyone could have spoken briefly. Of course, in the first place they were representatives of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the General Council of Science and Higher Education, trade unions, the National Science Section of the NSZZ, Solidarity, the Polish Teachers' Association, but also representatives of other institutions, in particular the Committee of Crisis Humanities of Poland, as well as the parliament of students and PhD students. There's been a lively discussion. I would like to present at this moment the most important changes that result from this law. Well, the minister was talking about broadening the autonomy of the university. We see that this law on higher education is not so thick, she, so to speak, contains four existing laws. Many decisions so far contained in the Act are passed on to the decision of the university senate. It will be mainly included in the university statute, which will be adopted by the Senate, as well as in the regulations of the university, which will be given by the rector. The second important element is the change in the financing system. Instead of existing grants, funds will be transferred in the form of grants. So it is the university that will decide how the funds are used, what they will use them for and when they will use them. It must also be said that funding is also a major change, which will also be seen in the Senate, i.e. a combination of the budget parts 28 and 38, i.e. the resources for learning. Part 28 and measures for higher education Part 38. I must say that there has often been a problem in the course of the university's activities regarding the clear distribution of these funds into different types of activities, as well as the transfer of these funds was impossible between these categories. So it seems to make it more flexible, so to speak, spending this money. I'm sure this bill will increase the rector's competence. This, of course, does not appeal to everyone, because it has its drawbacks and advantages. Surely it is that the framework of these powers of the rector is set by the Senate, surely there is a greater decision of the executive body, which is the rector. A new model of university management, abolishing departments as mandatory, so to speak, structures... abolishing department structure as mandatory structures... This has the advantage of making it better adapted to your needs. There are universities that will work better within different structures than departments. On the other hand, the department's lack of advice, and the dean's absence also has its drawbacks. Those of you who participate in the work of these bodies know that this is a certain dimension and self-government, and collegiateness. On the other hand, when at the head of these organizational units at the university, e.g. departments, schools, or other states, the person who will be executive, then will be better decision-making. So that here, as I say, flaws and virtues intertwine. Such a completely new element is the university council. Until now, there have been conventions with less competence. There will be a university council, which since September last year has a very limited competence, but as an advisory body here, the rector is pointed out. So here it is a new body with new competences. At the stage of the public consultation, care was taken to clearly separate the powers of the rector, the university council and the senate, which raised some doubts. It seems to have been done. Another issue is the limitation of the powers to confer degrees and degrees, and basically the powers to confer doctoral degrees and a habilitation doctor. This can be done by entities with category A+, A or newly introduced category B+, which will be awarded for disciplines rather than for units. So that the authorisation to give a doctor's degree or a doctor's degree in a given discipline will be acquired by having the authority to do so. Here some emotions are aroused by such, called colloquially, teaching professor. It is a university professor whose title can be given for particularly important achievements, among others. It's teaching. And that's a novelty. There is no doubt that the advantage of this solution is that we are raising our appreciation for the well-managed didactics to a higher level. I'm sure that's a good thing. But there's a fear that there'll be a temptation to not get those professorly titles for learning, since you'll have this professor. Colloquially speaking, teaching. On the other hand, we know that university didactics should be very closely related to science. So this is where these fears arise. It is important that the position of lecturer, senior lecturer, disappears in this bill. In return, there is a record that universities can create other positions of academic teachers and can do so in the statutes. It seems to be wider and more universal. In general, it is an attempt at this direction of change precisely in this law. As far as habilitation is concerned, she stays here fortunately. And there is such a belief that it will be on a higher level that it will be possible to carry out a habilitation colloquium. This is presented as an option for the habilitation committee. It is to be optional, which will result in lower academic staff, i.e. assistants or assistants, who are very much needed at every university... Not necessarily everyone will be forced to gain this habilitation. What is especially close to my heart is the admission of uniform studies in other directions. So far we've had the first and the second degree mandatory. There were certain disciplines excluded, e.g. philosophy or medicine or theology. At the moment it is possible to conduct uniform studies, but it is limited to the best courses, i.e. having a category of A It is possible to study in a uniform direction. The powers to grant degrees and titles and to create courses of education will be conferred on the senate. At the moment, these were the powers assigned to the department. The department was evaluated, parametrized, and the department was assigned a category. He also had the authority to give degrees and titles, to conduct training courses. At the moment, all of this will be transferred to the Senate level, i.e. if there is an information science at the two branches of the university, he will be evaluated as one throughout the university and one will be a category, one will be entitled to education. So that there will be consolidation of scientific fields and disciplines in relation to the OECD classification, but taking into account a certain Polish specificity. The issue which is extremely important in relation to the education reform being carried out, but also for many other reasons, for the Polish reason of the state, is the education of teachers. Here, in the Act, it is said that this teacher training can take place in courses that have a category of "B' or make appropriate agreements with such directions, or have at least 50% in daily studies. students. An age limit is also introduced for rectors who must have an unfinished sixty-five year of age at the time of taking up this function. It is extremely important to introduce a record that, in the case of academic teachers, all their work, namely scientific, teaching and organizational activities, will be covered by this discount related to copyright. So we recognize that all this activity is a creative activity, without introducing additional requirements for the presentation of a work or other bureaucracy. This is extremely important. The legal situation that is currently in force is extremely unclear, difficult to implement. So it's very important. We discussed at the committee meeting that it would be good if the researchers of the Polish Academy of Sciences were included in this too. An amendment has been tabled accordingly. We know, among the employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences there are also academic teachers and their law covers them, and the other scientists no longer. There are many other solutions. It is worth noting that scientific and academic staff should be mirrored, and as for this need to be read, these provisions are contained in many places of this law. In particular, it is about the appointment of new professors, and this also applies to certain important functions in the field of higher education. There are also many new regulations related to evaluation, doctoral schools, as if to recognize the importance and importance of universities commonly called regional, as well as the wider competences of the Polish Accreditation Commission. It should also be noted that the various provisions of the Act will be implemented gradually. It is stated that the Act itself enters into force on 1 October 2018, but further provisions will enter into force on 1 October 2019, in 2020 and even in 2022. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, it is also worth highlighting here what we have talked about many times in this House and what I have brought up many times, i.e. that all these changes also need some financial support. We remember the Lisbon Strategy, which referred to measures of 1% from the science budget, which in total, with money from business and the economy, would give 3%. According to the intention, this law is intended to serve an even better development of science, an even better coupling of science with the economy, as I have not already talked about, and to promote innovation, and also to make copyrights more alive so that workers can be dynamically used so that they feel satisfaction, also material, from their creation and transfer to the economy. Nevertheless, in all developed countries of the world, it is necessary to power the area of science from the state budget. When funding from the budget is below a certain level, science is not attractive enough for business, for the economy, and then the proceeds from the economy to science are smaller. That is why this funding is very important. On the occasion of the next budget we will talk about this, but it is also necessary today, on the occasion of this law, to make this clear. The effects of increased funding are both better quality of research, quality of academic education and the transfer of these effects to the economy, but there are also, of course, objective measures such as. the number of people employed in the R &amp; D area per thousand inhabitants. The Czechs have this factor four times higher than we do. So we have a lot of work to do here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken here about the extensive consultation that took place on the bill. Of course, there are groups of dissatisfied people who re-recalculate some doubts, e.g. Humanists, some employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Science Commission in NSZZ.Solidarity. But yesterday, the Polish Teachers' Union said that it was very pleased that the amendments proposed by the Polish Teachers' Association were taken into account. I'm sure yesterday we had the opportunity to hear what we read in different positions, i.e. that the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Main Council of Education, the Polish Academy of Sciences support these changes, support the new law. Students in the Parliament of Polish Students, as well as fellow PhD students, also support it. I must say that in such situations I am always concerned that the new laws are still covering records that will only prove to be those in which something needs to be improved. Besides, the Prime Minister has announced whether he has promised that there will probably be an amendment to these provisions in January. Although I'm afraid that needs can come out faster. I remember that as a young senator, I was involved in correcting the 2005 Higher Education Act in early autumn 2005 because it lacked a comma, which prevented the student scholarship from being paid. I have also tabled some amendments on medicine, but I would like to say that the committee has tabled 6 amendments to these 2 laws, 4 of which are included in the paper on the Higher Education Act. They concern, as if a change in the name, a change in the scope of the term "university professor', language requirements in the case of a doctorate, an increase in requirements for the rector, so that he has a doctoral degree and some additional powers for the university board. The Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science included these amendments up to 5. They all deal with 2 cases, i.e. covering employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences on the one hand with a certain amount of basic salaries, and on the other hand The privilege of copyright, which will be granted to university staff. There is, of course, some concern among the parts... It is difficult to say what part, but as far as this uncertainty is concerned, any change in such uncertainty causes, all the more so that here, what I have already said, some changes are radical. We hope that they will bear fruit. It should also be stressed that many of these provisions have been relaxed during this consultation and this work. And it must also be said that there are different perspectives, different ways of looking at these solutions. The humanists, the other scientists in the field of technical sciences, the other doctors have a different point of view, which is why by submitting these laws to you, I am presenting to you all these reflections that have been the subject of our concern and our amendments. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grodzki was the first to sign up. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a specific question about doctoral schools and clinicians. Doctoral schools, unlike doctoral studies, must be conducted in a stationary manner, which involves higher apanages. It will be possible to do a PhD in an external way, which is as it has been so far, but in such a way the written record of doctoral schools excludes clinic doctors who will not leave the clinic and treat patients for 3 or 4 years just to be in doctoral school. That's why we're being deprived of... This does not apply to medical theoretical workers, but to clinic staff who provide services to patients is extremely painful. I propose that we consider whether or not to make an amendment to this large group of doctors, because if we do not, in a few years' time, no clinician will have a doctorate. [[You're gonna answer that right away, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u54	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u55	Mr. Senator, I thought I knew these laws pretty well, especially the one about higher education, but I have to say I can't exactly answer. I think the Prime Minister would be more competent about this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This law will in practice lead to the creation of several universities, which will be the strongest, largest university centres in the country. It will also lead to smaller academic centres being degraded, becoming less important scientific centres. Don't you think that the members of the committee believe that it is the role of the state to strengthen these smaller academic centres too, so that universities in smaller centres really are such institutions that are important in terms of science in the area, I would say, regional and provincial? This law will lead to universities in smaller centres becoming higher vocational schools, but without scientific possibilities. Many examples, even from our close neighborhood, from Germany, show that very good universities conducting law studies or various other sciences are in small centres, and the state and government are supporting these centres because they are a very important element of regional policy. Such strengthening of local centres does not lead to the removal of elites, personnel from these smaller centres. Isn't there such a fear here? If we adopt this law, will we not lead to differentiation of centres, that there will be centres of importance, such as Warsaw, and smaller ones that will no longer count as scientific centres? As a scientist, do you not think that depriving smaller cities of scientific potential harms Poland and in practice is an act contrary to the government's policy, which had previously announced that it would take care of even development, without forgetting the extra-metropolitan areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u58	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, there are some threads and thoughts here. I think that as far as leading universities are concerned, it is necessary, however, to increase the level of research in Poland to a global level in an extremely intense way. There are many areas where research in Poland is carried out at global level. It is similar with higher education, which in many areas is at the highest global level. This is, for example, the case of medicine that has, so to speak, the accreditation of the United States, for the second time, for five years. The aim of the Act is to ensure that very good education and research at the highest level is further strengthened and, at the same time, extended to even more actors. From this... [[They're narrowed down...]] Let me finish. It follows that leading universities are supposed to provide the highest level of research here. I have to say that I was trying to make sure that the number of leading universities wasn't too small, because then the same colleges would be in this group all the time. In the current dimension, with such a number of universities I've got that conviction. The exchange will be ensured, i.e. 2, 3 entities in this group may be promoted or placed below within a longer period of time. Another case, that is, regional universities. That's what they're called here. I must say that there was such concern when last September the Prime Minister presented the bill, but in the meantime a lot has changed in these records. I must say that the rectors of state higher vocational schools are kind of happy after these changes. This also applies to a new funding algorithm that has been in operation for two years, which is as separate and adapted to them, so to speak, the means of evaluation and their ability to demonstrate the quality of education. I must say that to some extent this concerns me personally, because many years ago I was the author of a project to create the Tarnów Academy based on a higher professional school and the Faculty of Theology of the Pontifical University Section in Tarnów. I'm very sensitive here. Both the authorities of the State Higher Vocational School in Tarnów and the rectors of higher vocational schools at this stage do not raise such doubts. There is still a third group, a group of these universities, which are not among the leading ones and are at an absolutely academic level. Right? Here we can summon a unit from Olsztyn or Bydgoszcz or other units. I have no doubt that an extremely important element... I remember how many years ago we introduced... This was probably in 2007. In the Senate, we also contributed funds to the state budget and they were entirely allocated to such a quality grant. So it was all about making sure the weaker ones didn't get less, and then the better ones got more. That is why I have allowed myself a long time to talk about this increase in funds, because I am so convinced that it would be my intention for everyone to develop so that those mentioned in the wider group, academics, would have aspirations to be among the best ones. And if they're not in this group, then they're also doing research and education at least at the current level, and basically at a better level. This also serves to combine the budget parts 28 and 38 and to make better use of these funds. As we look at the Planck Institute and other institutions of our neighbours... I must say that we have recently been a large Senate delegation in Spain. It was from this IT area that, on Monday, a list of the world's fastest supercomputers was announced. Well, they're a little higher-level centers than ours. We have something to chase, and that's why we should choose these instruments. And I think that as the Senate we are also from making sure that these declarations of today and these records are filled with the content that I have spoken of at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u60	Senator Klein wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u61	Well, Mr. Senator, but the financial mechanism that is incorporated into this bill will, however, lead to the fact that these strong academic centres A few in the country receiving additional support will actually never give up this field to smaller centres. I have such a simple question: what action must this university, which you spoke about in Tarnów or the Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk take to become a leading university? I'm not saying in every area, but in some area. What steps step by step should such a university take so that it can become the kind of university it is, I don't know, e.g. The University of Giessen, Germany, in a small town or other resorts? Are we not leading to the fact that we are currently scientifically excluding these smaller centres, that in other areas we are talking about others, etc.? At every law, it is clear that it is still building this state force on the basis of the metropolis. Not all of them today. Today only a few, probably five or six, such strong academic centers the government plans to create, and the rest of it will, so to speak, push back.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u62	I can, Mr. Marshal... I mean, there's no doubt that equalizing everything to the average level in science isn't going to have any effect. I have to say that I was rather concerned about writing down mechanisms that would protect us from the fact that the best ones would get a lot of that money and become lazy, and they wouldn't be good for the money... Because we as Senate should care about the good use of taxpayers' money. So if we're giving someone more of these resources, we want the effects to be at least proportional, in fact. Synergies should make them even greater than due to the proportion. And I think that's what's supposed to happen. We have to keep an eye on it, but I have a feeling it's gonna happen. But I must also say that I have spoken many times in the Senate about this pyramid. And here we have good academics, and we have to take care of the whole thing, because then this whole pyramid goes up. You can't just invest in Nobel Prize winners or invest in the base of the pyramid. And I think that's the distinction that makes... I am sure the key will be the size of the funds and will of the executive authority of the Ministry, but also the many bodies that the Ministry is calling. There are many bodies listed in this bill. The accreditation and evaluation committees, the main board, which are also to monitor this. There will be representatives of the academic community and they will make sure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u63	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Professor, I have a question. Well, I'm a humanist, a doctor of humanities in history. And I am affected by a lot of concerns from the Polish people's environment. And with very different views on the reality surrounding us, one can say: from the right to the left, expressing huge concerns about the future of Polish humanities in the context of the law that we are currently pursuing. Therefore, I have a question for you: are these positions that have been expressed in writing, e.g. the position of the Humanities Scientific Committees Agreement has been taken into account during the work of the committee on this law? These comments seem to be correct, because, for example, if. the certification of the law refers to the regulation of the Minister of Higher Education. It will be based on English-language publications, it will appear that e.g. The work on grain trade in the 15th century in Toruń will not be published in the United States, because it is not very attractive on the market there, but the work will be published and raised by the African Americans in Toruń as an example of racism and xenophobia, as an ideological theme... In other words, there will be ideology of science and a completely flattened hierarchy of quality and importance of humanities research, especially in the context of research on Polish literature, Polish history, Polish heritage, our tradition, also in sociological research, all auxiliary sciences and sociology, and thus in this very broad context of humanities sciences. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? As if the Professor would like to comment more on this subject... Thank you. [[That's a very wise question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u65	Thank you very much, senator. I must say this: at the committee meeting we did not discuss it deeply, although Dr. Temkin was invited, who is the head of this Crisis Committee of Polish Humanities, I titled him Mr. Professor, which he corrected, but this is a separate matter. And he had the opportunity to comment on it. I have to say this: I see three threads of this case. The first one who can... I do not wish to expose myself to the humanists here, but I think there is a great need for Polish humanists to publish in foreign languages. And there is no reason why the achievements of Polish culture should not be published in the best world magazines in so-called. congress languages. After all, the fact that we are celebrating the 550th anniversary of parliamentarianism this year... Well, who in the world knows about this? Who has more knowledge about this? So there's a huge need. And I have to say that we know that today electronic media plus certain languages known in the world are very important. This is the first case. There's a huge, huge need here. On the other hand, the fear that there will be an advantage e.g. Whereas technical sciences, which by nature speak mostly English, are misleading because the categorisation that the evaluation takes place in certain groups of homogeneous units and therefore humanists will be compared with humanists. I have to say this: even in my field, in computer science, for example. These points affect factor so-called. the Philadelphia electronics list is completely different from that of computer science. There's almost a five-fold puncture, although these are twin areas. So it seems that the assessment within certain groups of homogeneous units should significantly eliminate these concerns. And I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen. However, it is a separate matter to launch certain programs of the Minister or programs within the framework of the NCN or the NCBiR, i.e. the National Science Centre, the National Centre for Research and Development. Both the directors of these centres and the councils operating in these centres should see certain needs not only in the economy but also in the culture. I must say, on the basis of my experience in recent years, when we have been strongly encouraged or forced to cooperate science with the economy, that, as it turns out, the lack of these soft skills in engineers, which come mainly from humanists, is evident. And certain attitudes that can give all students humanists are very much needed. Therefore, as I think, both the heads of these centres and the councils themselves, as well as the minister himself and his colleagues, should see and build some programmes here to fund some important topics in the field of humanities as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u67	Thank you kindly. Sorry, I didn't turn the mic on. Professor, I actually have two questions. One thing I had written before, and the other one is in the way of what you said about quality pyramids. First of all, that's the first question. There's supposed to be an aggregation of scientific disciplines, about 100 to 40. And it is essential for the whole, because assessments and categories are given in the field of discipline. So that it matters. Please tell me: was the question of aggregation of disciplines, of how they were combined, discussed at a committee meeting? And was the Minister's regulation to implement this also discussed during the committee meeting? This includes: The disciplines you spoke of and in which you work, i.e. computer science, electronics, automation and robotics, and the fourth one that is connected. I mean. In this case, there is the most far-reaching aggregation, but it is also in many other places, because the expected general indicator is 2.5. Is reducing the number of disciplines to such a degree... How was that discussed? Is this inventory available? Was he presented at the committee meeting? This is the first question: aggregation of disciplines. The second concerns these quality issues. In fact, in part, I would agree with your position, but I would like to ask... a competition that will actually decide on the degree of development opportunities and how universities will be permanent, this is a strategy of excellence. The University of Research. There's supposed to be ten universities there. The funding period increased, and indeed, plus at least 10%, is 6 years. And a minimum exchange between individual competitions 2 universities. In my opinion, it's actually gonna block this scene in an absolute way, and it's gonna throw it out of bounds... I'm not talking about my college anymore, because there's nothing to talk about. But if you count 10 universities on your fingers, you will conclude that in addition to 3 Warsaw, 2 Poznan, 2 Wrocław and 2 Krakow there is one place for Gdansk, Silesia, Lublin, Torun etc. What do you say to that? [[May I, Mr. Marshal, please?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u68	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We didn't talk at the committee meeting about the aggregation of disciplines. I must say that many years ago I participated in such a joint meeting of the bureau of the central committee, the main board and the bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences and I know that this aggregation process had already been undertaken, ineffectively. This is a difficult case. It's usually that, well, some disciplines consider themselves so autonomous that they don't allow connections with others. On the other hand, such aggregation seems to serve interdisciplinaryity more. Although I do know that interdisciplinary is a kind of collision of completely different disciplines and disciplines, so not necessarily here... I have to say, it actually happened here so... Mr. Senator mentioned detailed disciplines because there was a theoretical computer science with mathematics and there was a computer science, let's call it technical with electronics and automation. I'm sure this must be settled here in the regulation. I know that there have been long negotiations in this area, first conducted by the central committee, then by a special team appointed by the Minister. In fact, I don't have any more knowledge about this, but I'm sure the Minister could have said more about it. The question of the law was whether 40 was better than 100. Well, actually, in the senator's question, there was an answer that was probably better. Right? We think it's better, although we generate the problem of defining these 40s in this way, which is a much harder problem... [[But this should be done by now.]] Mr. Senator, we both know We have talked about this many times, and in this House, and beyond this House. That putting everything in the bill is not good. That's why... [[But in which regulation...]] Well, it's a regulation... I'm sure the Minister will tell you that. That's all I can say. [[There should be attachments.]] And as for the research college competition... Mr. Senator's listed these nine universities with conviction. I'm afraid it doesn't have to be like this. I don't want to appeal to the soccer world championship here, but I'm sure... It's not always like that. Suddenly, the first three are in the other three, and those who weren't supposed to be on the list are on that list. It's also... Those who judge also judge the entity itself, which can be judged differently, so to speak, in a common manner, or otherwise according to the criteria set by the Minister. In addition, it is often the case that this is assessed on the basis of some documentation. Well, there was a coincidence that one of the universities ordered the paperwork to be parameterized to a student of doctoral studies and then they came running to me as head of the committee asking me to save them because it was a tragedy. So here are many elements in the decision-making process, and I think that this mechanism, that at least two universities have to exchange, meets the condition that I mentioned earlier. He's forced by law here. And I'm pretty sure it's gonna be more than two colleges, so it could be 3, 4 maybe not, but it could be 3. So here I'd be... There's some fear, but you have to try. I think we can also correct these laws by observing reality, right? There's no doubt that life will show. I'm sure it's a step that seems like It should have some effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u70	Senator Jackowski would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask, because there's some environmental concern here. Without questioning what Mr. Senator said, it is necessary to extend the circle as much as possible so that these publications are in congress languages to be outside the Polish borders. I'm talking about humanities all the time. It must be borne in mind, however, that at the same time there are works which, for various reasons, will not break through on the international market, because they are very regional in nature, are very specialised, very narrow, and are also valuable for various scientific reasons. And what I am talking about now is whether at the committee meeting it was not possible to expand the catalogue of magazines in this regulation, in which the minister will define a set of publications for certification, a significant number of magazines in Polish, so that there is no such impression that only publications will decide about the rank of Polish science... We live in Poland, the official language is Polish, and certification in practice can be decided... [[Thank you...]] ...only Anglo-, German- or congress publications. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u72	Thank you very much. I will remind you that we are at the moment of asking the rapporteur's questions. The Prime Minister is with us. There will be questions for the Prime Minister in a moment. I ask the senator to answer questions about the course of the committee's work. [[Briefly.]] Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u73	I'll be brief. I was talking about three elements. Right now, Mr. Senator is only going back to the other one. We did not discuss the regulations at the committee meeting, and I think that this question will be answered by the Minister, as suggested by the Marshal. And regardless of the content of this regulation, it can be amended, as senators, we can make interpellations or inquiries in this matter, so there is some openness here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First. The bill's draft... [[Two questions, but the limit is one minute.]] I'll make it. [[You're welcome.]] The draft law envisages the creation of a new, to the end of an undefined body managing the university, namely the university council. The main concern is the personal composition and functions of the university board, which will decide on the choice of the rector of the university and manage its activities. It is assumed that more than 50% of the board will come from non-university backgrounds. The question arises: who will the members of the university board be selected from the outside world, and what will be the criterion of choice? The second question will be shorter, Mr. Marshal. The draft law provides for the elimination of the autonomy of the departments as the basic organisational units of universities. In return, the Act proposes a new level of governance in the form of a university board, a body unrelated to the academic community, with a personal composition in which less than 50% will be provided by university staff and students. Why would you write that down?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u76	You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u77	I'm gonna try to talk less because the marshal here reminded me a little bit. I mean, as far as college board is concerned, it was a recipe that caused the most, so to speak, discussion. One could say that this is a record that has undergone the greatest metamorphosis at the consultation stage. At the moment, the legal situation is as if the most important body in the university is the Senate, and there is no doubt about it. He determines the method of formulation, the composition of this advice. The tasks of the Board shall be described in detail in Article. 18 and its composition in Article. 19. And her assignments... The efforts of the Prime Minister and Members concerned that these tasks should be clearly separated, because there was a concern that certain powers of the rector, council and senate might arise. It's been taken care of here to separate it, and it seems to have worked. That's all there is to it. About case two, which means the departments... The Prime Minister knows it's my personal concern. I have always reserved myself that this is because I am a representative of technical universities that have their own specifics. I must say that, on the one hand, this record will probably be burdensome for the Ministry, because until now, when all universities were similarly organized, it was easier to judge and communicate. On the other hand, there will be a phenomenon. It's not necessarily going to happen in a short time. A certain search for optimal organizational solutions will probably develop several types, ways of organizing universities. Perhaps there will also be others who will be individual cases. I'm sure it's an interesting process. It's hard to say what's going to happen today, it's a little bit of a leap into the unknown, but I think it's bringing about a significant recovery. It was somehow accepted by a part of the environment... I mean, there's been some polarization here. Some of them are tied up... For me, this department that had the authority, which had the advice that the dean had chosen, was a certain value in terms of tradition and dimension, and a certain accomplishment, but it seems that the search in this area might be interesting. I know a lot of universities are declaring that they're gonna stay, but that's their choice. What competences will be, how will the organization be, it is difficult for me to say right now. [[Can I ask the Prime Minister later, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u78	Yes, you're welcome. [[Thank you.]] Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In this situation, after your attention, I'd rather ask Minister Gowin... [[Thank you very much...]] ...so I just have to ask a question to the rapporteur because I have 30 seconds left. Did you also receive this letter that we all received just from people who are concerned about humanities? Mr Jackowski spoke about it, and I thank him as a representative of the rulers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u80	What a beautiful coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u81	I've received a lot of letters, probably this one too, but I've also received them through... Senator Żaryn was in close contact with the humanistic environment, so that there were many of these positions and contacts. The most important thing is that I said to Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Sługocki was the last person to sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! Professor! I have a question about evaluation, evaluation. In the contested law, in the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, it is said that evaluation, this expert, will be based on 3 main indicators: the level of scientific or artistic activity, the effects of scientific activities and attention The impact on the social and economic environment. If these The first two elements that we have dealt with so far do not raise, I think, doubts, but the third one can wake them up. I am aware that this assessment will be regulated in the regulation, but do you not think... Mr Senator, was there a discussion during the committee's work about, however, explaining these concepts in the bill so that no one, especially the author of the regulation, has any doubt as to what these concepts should mean? Because if these concepts are otherwise understood at the level of the regulation, it may distort the evaluation process a little bit. Was there a discussion on this during the committee's work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Wach, you've done well. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u85	I'm turning on the mic now. Thank you. As far as the humanists are concerned, I have one more question, and since it is to be a question to the rapporteur, I will ask whether this has been highlighted in the committee. Namely, humanists are in my view victims in terms of the possibility of obtaining a category A+ because category A+... As I understand it, the regulation, which is in force in this case, says that it is chosen from among the categories And that you take into account the world's ranking of discipline. Well, chemistry has a huge chance of getting a lot of A+ here, and humanities don't. At least that's what I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u86	And once again Senator Slugocki added himself. [[Yes.]] Question for the senator, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u87	Yes. Mr. Senator, once again I will address the issue of humanities and I will raise this earlier question about evaluation. If there are scientific disciplines, you also represent such discipline. In which it is easier to build some kind of feedback between science and the economy, it is, unfortunately, much more difficult in humanities to establish such a relationship and gain funds for research on the market. Shouldn't humanities be treated in particular in the context of this law? However, don't you think that the transfer of funds from the state budget should specifically secure these disciplines of science? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u88	That was the last question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u89	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll answer both of your senator's questions together. I must say that these records of such less measurable, more difficult to evaluate phenomena always raise doubts. Well, on the other hand, we wouldn't want people who judge to be computers. We want these soft competences or merits to be appreciated, too, because they are extremely important. And I must say that this social dimension that you were talking about is extremely important in the case of humanities. Since there are no economic advantages, these social ones should be taken into account as an equalizing element. So that I don't think we should be afraid of this, but, as I say, it requires constant observation, surveillance, modification of these records, because it's just a living body. We know that certain phenomena in the world, in the academic community, as in any other... Well, people look at these regulations and adapt positively to them, also seeing some gaps. So there's no doubt about it. And as for this humanities and its relations with the economy, all I can do is repeat what I said to Senator Jackowski. However, these assessments will be awarded in certain homogeneous groups. Now I come to Senator Wach's question. Well, indeed, this world ranking is a problem here, but it must be said that all humanities are in a similar position in this area. So there's a resemblance here. Perhaps this is also an encouragement to this international activity. The Prime Minister will probably extend this answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u90	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u91	I'm just gonna ask you a few questions. I know the Prime Minister is waiting, so just a little bit... Mr. Senator, don't you think... When I asked that question, I was thinking about getting potential funding from outside the state budget for research. In my opinion, humanities lose, for example, as I said, with computer science, it's with the field, with the discipline you represent. Shouldn't there be another state policy in this context? Thank you. [[That's a question for the Prime Minister because he's a philosopher.]] [[I have to say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator Fedorovich. For that vote, Mr. Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u93	It's either short or short. Mr. Marshal told me to be brief. Mr. Senator, I'm going to start by saying that with these technical sciences, it's not so easy and easy. Indeed, one of our Polish specialties is IT, but please note that most of these IT companies are global companies. They have their research laboratories outside of Poland... [[And yes and no, because...]] ...so getting funds from them isn't that easy. Well, yes, and no... We know it is, and we know it isn't. But you have to say it's not easy. This is the first case. Second thing. There are, of course, domestic companies, there are a lot of them... They're smaller, and they're not necessarily willing to commit their resources. That's not enough. And here's the third case I told Prime Minister Morawiecki when he was Deputy Prime Minister. We have a great deal of resources under the Operational Programme of Innovation Development, but there are again these addictions that I was just talking about. So that, in fact, this situation isn't that simple. In addition, in many areas of society, humanists can apply for certain subjects... They can also create them in some sense. So that we live in a time of immense dynamics and social and professional. She also applies to this area. The problem concerns a creative and entrepreneurial attitude at all, not in particular...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr Wind was very precise about the content of the bill, in many respects he answered the questions and doubts raised by the senators, and in some cases he referred questions to me. From here I allow myself to speak. I do this primarily to address your senators' questions. As far as the concern of Senator Grodzki is concerned that this formula of doctoral schools will make it impossible for clinicians to write PhDs, I would definitely like to reassure the senator here. There is a formula for external studies, with a free rate, but above all every university can prepare for participants of doctoral schools an appropriate timetable. In this case, we are in close contact with the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Colleges There is no concern on their part. Senator Klein, absent at the moment, expressed his view of similar concerns in some other statements. As an example, the Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk stated that the Act would lead to the degradation of smaller centres. I would very much like to argue with that view. First of all, a word about why we need research universities, the ones Senator Wind said they were supposed to be leading universities. Every year, you leave Poland to study at the best Western universities a lot of the most talented seniors, a lot of the most talented students, and in order to work at these universities, a lot of the most talented young scientists leave. After Poland's accession to the European Union, around 30,000 scientists, mostly young and very capable, took part in universities around the world, especially Europe. Why are they leaving? And what to do to stop this greatest drama of modern Poland? It's a drama that's said very little, but it means a continuous brain drain. After all, these young seniors, students, scientists should be the future national elite, and instead they become the illiterate elite. The main reason why they decide to leave, the trip that turns into permanent emigration in the vast majority of cases, is the fact that we do not have a single university in Poland at the moment, which would represent a really high global level. You can have a lot of distance to college rankings, but they show something. And the fact that the best Polish university is only in the fourth hundred world rankings is a embarrassing fact, and this is, unfortunately, one of the main reasons why we are losing these young people. If we want to provide a system of continuous education and formation of elites, we need universities that will compete not among themselves, here in Poland, but will compete with good and, in time, very good, leading universities of the world. Hence the idea, not new, to determine the so-called. research universities. Here I would like to reply to Senator Wach that 18 universities, which meet fully objective criteria related to scientific categories, were initially selected for competitions. And these are not only universities from major metropolises, they are also universities from Katowice, 2 universities from Gdańsk, a university from Bialystok, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń... But I'm sure that list isn't full. It is not at all decided which of these 18 universities will become research universities, because the international group of experts will evaluate the development strategy of universities rather than the current achievements. Because if this were about the current achievements, it is obvious that the University of Warsaw would be the first on this list, and the second would be the Jagiellonian University, in fact here the predictions of your senator would have been fully fulfilled. It is important that each of these universities present a development strategy to ensure that they reach the global level. And that will be assessed. The fact that we are setting up research universities is a response to the great challenge of the need for education and formation of elites. But I stress equally important, no less important, but it is equally important to provide all universities, including the so-called. regional universities, conditions for sustainable development. This law is as if infiltrated by the spirit of the principle of sustainable development, only that sustainable development should not be confused with the principle of sustainable stagnation. I mean, it's not about letting weak universities stay at the same weak level. It is about creating incentives that will enable each type of university and each university individually to improve the quality of both student education and research. I would also like to say that after the original period of concern expressed by the so-called. regional universities and under the influence of continuous dialogue with them, we have supplemented the law on solutions, which has led both state-owned vocational schools in repeated statements to support this project and to be supported by the so-called. Green Góra agreement, a group of twenty-several academic universities, medium or small. Senator Kleina asked about specific instruments to support research, e.g. at the Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk, where I had the pleasure to visit twice. Well, the most important example, but only one of many, is so-called. regional excellence initiatives. The Ministry, without waiting for the adoption and entry into force of the Act, has already announced the competition The deadline for submitting projects under this competition has already expired, which is to support islands of excellence, which are currently at all universities, also at the Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk. The research teams selected at these universities in the competition will receive additional funding of EUR 3 million for a total of 12 million over 4 years. These are powerful resources for research, which will allow universities to obtain these grants not only for the scientific development of their staff, but also to attract leading scientists from other centres in Poland, and even if it is their will, to finance the taking up of work in these universities by very good foreign scientists. In the statements of Senator Jackowski, but also of Senator Wach and Senator Slugocki, the echoes of these fears are expressed by part of the humanistic environment. Incidentally, I would like you to be aware of what part of the environment the senators are protesting and what part of the bill supports. Senator Wind has already talked about this, and I will repeat that the bill was supported by all the conferences of the rectors, by the most democratic representation of the academic world, i.e. by the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, by the National Representation of PhD Students, by the Parliament of Polish Students and by the student authorities of all universities in which these groups of protesters against the Act appeared. The local authorities of many other universities expressed their support separately, including for example. local governments of many state higher vocational schools. What is the future of humanities? Like Senator Jackowski, I am a doctor of humanities and you can be sure that the future of humanities is at my heart no less than any of your senators. I would like to say that for the good development of humanities, the new way of financing universities, introduced by the Ministry on 1 January 2017, is already beneficial. How is it different from the previous one? I'll explain in a very simple way. In this previous system, money followed a student. The more students, the more money. This has resulted in poor mastering of studies and lower levels, which was also detrimental to humanities and disciplines, because these disciplines by definition are more elite in the best sense of the word. We don't need thousands of philosophers or art historians every year, we need thousands of computer scientists or engineers. With the old funding system, these courses of a more elite or intimate nature were a crutch to the university. Now we consider not the overall number of students, but the proportion between the number of students and the number of researchers. Not more than 13 students per 1 scientific worker are awarded the highest funding at this proportion of the university. And it turned out that this way, as we predicted, is beneficial for humanities. The second example of how we support humanities is the new principles of evaluation announced by us, i.e. evaluation of the scientific achievements. The law stipulates that this evaluation will be carried out not according to organisational units, i.e. in practice departments or institutes, but according to disciplines. And again it is a very beneficial solution for humanists, because thanks to it Polishists will be compared not with psychologists, physicists or computer scientists, only Polishists will be compared with Polishists, historians with historians, etc. In addition, we take into account the long-standing postulate of the humanist community to score monographs higher. In humanities, monographs count. In computer science, I suppose, they do not have the slightest significance at all, it may be popularization works, while in humanities the basic form of finalization of research is monograph. And such a high score of monographs is foreseen by the Ministry. I'd also like to clarify the misunderstanding. Okay, I'm pointing out that there's been a misunderstanding. In connection with the allegation that the Ministry will promote English-language publications and that, therefore, more niche or, in quotes, national topics will be discriminated against. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as a humanist, I am fully aware that the language of expression of humanities is always the national language, in every case, also, and perhaps even especially in the case of Poland, due to historical experience. We do not have the slightest intention of forcing humanists to publish in foreign languages, particularly in English, although we will create some incentives for some humanistic publications to appear in conference languages. Why? A great example was provided by recent controversy over the amendment of the IPN Act. When these controversys arose, the government tried to reach for English-language studies on the fate of Jews during World War II in Poland. And we've discovered something that's bitterly true. There are such studies, yes, in Polish, but they are incomprehensible to the world's public opinion, whereas the studies in foreign languages, especially in English, are the studies of Jewish researchers: Israeli, American, English, German, and also Russian. Let me briefly say: the Polish state has proved to be completely defenceless in this debate. Therefore, for building the prestige of Polish science and for building the proper image of Poland publication e.g. articles about Norwid's work or articles about the phenomenon of noble democracy, publishing them in English, is useful. However, this does not mean that only such publications will be taken into account by the Ministry during the evaluation of the scientific achievements. What's our idea? We want to make Polish science a reality, and I believe that it is a expectation shared by all the senators. She had the greatest effect on world science. This can only be done in one case In such a way, when publications of Polish humanists appear in journals indexed in international databases. And this is where this misunderstanding begins, because when we talk about international bases, it's part of the humanist environment that says: it's where it's published in English. Nothing more vicious. At the moment, there are about 700 leading Polish scientific journals in these international bases, including over 100 published in Polish. We want these magazines to be as many as possible, which is why the Ministry And this is the answer to Senator Slugocki's legitimate request. The competition has already been announced. We will identify 500 further scientific journals, most of which will be humanist and social journals. Polish scientific journals. The Ministry will create a grant system for these magazines so that they can enter international databases. During the transitional period, when they apply for this presence in databases, publications in these magazines will be scored as if they were already in these databases. So we will lead to hundreds of Polish scientific journals starting to influence world science. Senator Wach asked for a list of disciplines. The list of disciplines is non-stop matter, that's the matter associated with the regulation. As Senator Wind said, we felt that, like the entire law, it was created in dialogue with the academic community, so should a list of disciplines be drawn up in such a dialogue. First, a word about why we want to change this list. This is, I ask you, the long-standing postulate of all, international and Polish experts, that too narrow specialisation, artificial selection of dozens of disciplines is a barrier to the development of Polish science. As a starting point, we took the OECD classification, which includes thirty-several disciplines. In comparison, I would like to say that currently in Poland these disciplines are emphasized once again: in many cases there are more than 100 artificial and scientific reasons. But it's not the ministry that determines what the new classification of disciplines is supposed to look like. We asked for the cooperation of the representative grammar of the academic world, which emerged an expert team. These are experts of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the General Council of Science and Higher Education, the Central Commission and the Committee for the Evaluation of Scientific Units. Following a phase of the dialogue, experts from the Scientific Policy Committee also joined. Discussions and consultations are currently underway with the academic community, and I think we will be ready to make proposals at the turn of July and August, I stress: proposals. This will still be subject to a broad discussion. By the way, I will refer to the last thread of Senator Wach's statement, also referring to humanities. Mr. Senator said that in the case of individuals with category A+, humanities are being wronged because the ministry supposedly wanted to refer to international rankings. No, no, I'd like to explain this misunderstanding. We do not refer to any international rankings, but our recommendation to KEJN experts was that the A+ category should receive only entities representing in their discipline or in their global disciplines. Polish science, or history, or Latin philology in Poland can represent the world level to the same extent as this world level can represent astronomy, physics or chemistry. So that I think that there is no discrimination here, and I think we can agree that the category A+, the highest one, should be a guarantee of a global level at a given university or research institute. I will admit that Senator Komarnicki surprised me with his attention and his doubts about the university council, because I was expecting your Senator as an entrepreneur to support this project. Here most of your doubts were explained by Senator Wind. Indeed, in the course of consultations with both the academic community and the political consultations within the United Right, the Council's formula was deeply redefined. It's not gonna be a co-decision body anymore, it's gonna be an advisory body. And why is such a body needed? I don't think it's necessary for the senators to explain it. Because universities cannot be ivory towers, there is a need for dialogue between the academic world and society in general. The university councils are to be such a transmission band between the total Poles and the academic world. Senator Wind also explained the department-related issue. There's a charge that the bill would end the departments. Well, there's nothing more wrong with it. We, ladies and gentlemen, are eliminating the compulsion to divide into departments. These are two different things. We're not shutting down the department. We open up, we only create the possibility for those universities that wish to have a different structure so that they can exploit this internal potential and define their own mission and their own kind of internal constitution. We all know various outstanding universities in the world. Most of them have a departmental structure, but there are universities that divide into colleges, there are universities that divide into schools. Why should we close the way for Polish universities to such diversity? After all, in this diversity, in this pluralism is the strength of the academic world. And they are, as Senator Wind mentioned, very interesting proposals, because of course there is a discussion in the academic community. And I think that the vast majority of universities in Poland will remain at the faculty structure. But there are also proposals such as the one developed by the Technical University of Lodz. Namely, the Łódź University of Technology plans to create one teaching department responsible for conducting engineering studies, and on the basis of this one department wants to create research schools responsible for master's education, doctoral training and research. This is a very interesting concept that could not be realized today. I hope that this will be implemented, including with the participation of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, if you agree to the adoption of this bill, which I ask warmly. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u96	Thank you, Prime Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Senator Zdrojewska was the first person to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u97	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you have presented us with these arguments which most of us are already familiar with. I'm gonna talk about humanities again. You say you're not an enemy of humanities, also as an educated philosopher, etc. I believe it all. But when you read interviews with you, it is mostly pragmatism and referring to the labour market and to such a kind of ad hoc situation, as if, I would say, a global economy when it comes to science, etc., etc. I understand all of this, and it's like I didn't want to ask you about the whole range of things that concern the development of research universities, etc., etc. I mean, the humanities, I mean... You referred to opinions and consultations, for example. The rectors generally assumed... that all the rectors' conferences had generally adopted, they had positive opinions. I wanted to say that the rectors are not always representatives of the environment, especially since this law is a law that greatly extends the competence of the rectors and increases their power. And I think the rectors will be very pleased with this bill. I would like to refer to the opinion of the PAN Committees, meeting within the framework of the Humanities Scientific Committees Agreement, which issued its opinion. There are dozens of thousands of employees... [[Senator, please proceed with the question.]] Yes. I'm on my way to the end. ...the outstanding Polish humanists, several thousand. And in a brief statement, they are talking about their huge doubts about the possibility of bringing about a deep crisis in humanities. They are calling in, among others. that such solutions have been adopted in the Scandinavian countries and have led to the collapse of these areas. And please accept all these doubts that arise as quite serious and not referring to what is immediately needed in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u98	But the question wasn't, unless the Prime Minister... [[No, I asked the Prime Minister to refer to this.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u99	First of all, I would like to protest against calling the rectors unrepresented. They come from democratic elections. Who, if not the rectors, represent the academic community? But I would like to remind you that the law was strongly supported by the students, by the student authorities, by the PhD students, so it is certainly not a law written under the expectations of the rectors. As far as humanities are concerned... I may actually talk more often about economic issues, partly because this reform is part of our government's main plan, which is the Responsible Development Strategy, but I would like to send the senator back to an article I recently published in the Polish Rzeczpospolita, where I wrote about the future of humanities. It is difficult for me to refer to the statements made by the senator because they are extremely general and do not in any way refer to specific decisions proposed by the Ministry. It seems to me that these are concerns arising either from the ignorance of the law or from translating into future solutions to the evaluation principles that are in force today. However, these principles of evaluation, which the Ministry prepares in cooperation with the academic community, take into account the specificities of humanities, social sciences and theological sciences, moreover, at the level of the law indicate that the principles of evaluation of these 3 fields of science are to be different from those of other fields. Regardless of this, I would like to say that I regularly meet with the representative bodies of the humanities' academic world. I had such a meeting with the rectors and rectors of artistic universities and received full support for our solutions. I had a meeting with the humanist community of Krakow, and this week I will have a meeting with another group of outstanding humanists, next week I will meet with Lublin, Podlaskie and Podkarpackie universities, there will be a separate meeting with representatives of Wielkopolska, Lubuskie and West Pomeranian universities. During all these meetings, I am trying to ensure that the future of humanities is the main topic, so as to dispel the concerns that I stress once again. They are largely due to the ignorance of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u100	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u101	Minister, the question about the deadlines for adapting the structure of the university to the planned law. The Act enters into force on 1 October this year and is a year to adapt this structure. I, like you, am afraid I don't know if that's your concern. And I assume that most universities will remain in the faculty structure, also because this term, this annual time, is a short time, and after all the original assumption that they would go towards a collegial structure in Polish universities, was, in my opinion, a chance to change the structure in universities. Do you allow the possibility that, as a result of the amendments that have been tabled in this House, this time will be extended by another year and thus give universities a chance to move away from the traditional departmental structure and, for example, to come to an end. to a collegial structure or to perform a very difficult operation at each university, perhaps the most difficult one, namely the combination of departments in some larger whole? The creation of a college from the beginning is easier than a combination of departments in a larger whole, due to the natural resistance of the departmental environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u102	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u103	Thank you so much for that question. I am opposed to delaying the entry into force of this reform, even in the case of one of the Senator's points, although the very important aspect of the internal structure is the issue, because the discussion of this law and the new solutions lasts 2.5 years. From the very beginning we announced that the law would extend the autonomy of the university, among others. in such a way that it will give them an opportunity to autonomously identify the organisational types, the internal structure, and therefore in most universities this debate has been going on for a long time, even I have given you examples of concrete solutions developed at some universities. I would also like to say that the internal structure will be governed by the statutes of universities, and this statute can be amended in the future, and I allow for such a possibility that there will be universities, which in the original version of the statutes will remain within the faculty structure, but over time, especially by observing good examples of other universities, which will decide for example. to the collegial structure, the former will modify their statutory arrangements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u104	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u105	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there will be three questions, they will be rather short, but if you allow me, I will ask three questions in two minutes. [[Three.]] Thank you. First. Did you respond to an open letter on the environments of cross-border studies? I'm sure you had to read it. He is supported by Professor Edigarian, our professor-in-chief, Professor Górniak, many outstanding professors, and concerns about this scope of science. Second question. What would you say to a student who wrote to me from Wroclaw... She's watching us right now because we're talking... He fears that the law will destroy the university as an idea, as a space of meeting and conversation, as a community. And she's giving me arguments. Of course, I'm not in a position to present these arguments within a minute, but these are the ones you're saying they have no basis and no concrete... It states that, after consulting lawyers, it considers that legislative work is not carried out professionally, rules often create gates that are in the wrong hands. And this is a fear; please remember that my voice is not the voice of the opposition, it is the citizen's, and it is from Krakow that it can become an excuse for actions that are incompatible with university ideas. And the point is that the form of the regulation... we keep coming back to the same thing. Since the process was not very professional, so to speak, please answer the question that appeared in public space... About a month and a half ago, the Law and Justice organization was opposed to this law, which could be heard in the statements of Professor and Vice-Marshal Terletsky. What happened that we were able to do this? And the last one. If you are gracious to use in the statement any argument concerning the unfortunate law on IPN, I would like to remind you that we here have tried uneducated humanists who carried out this law, explain that she does not make the slightest sense and that letting Poland into such an area which is very difficult is not appropriate, but unfortunately no one has listened to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u106	Prime Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u107	Thank you so much for this series of questions. On the last point, I'll allow myself to disagree with the senator. Fighting for the good name of Poland and Poles is never unnecessary, but you have to choose the right instruments. It seems to me that after the amendment, after the last amendment, this law is a very effective instrument and will therefore be of great service to Poland. [[I'm sorry, but I must, if I may... Mr. Senator, the good name of Poland is also my goal, but it cannot be given to unprofessional politicians.]] [[Mr. Senator, it's already in the discussion. Don't interrupt, Mr. Prime Minister answers. There you go.]] As I understand it, in relations between the two chambers of Parliament, respect should apply and what comes out of the Sejm should not be discredited by the senators as a sign of lack of professionalism. or lack of responsibility and vice versa. But I believe that this part of Senator Fedorovich's speech is strictly political and less substantive. I will therefore refer to these substantive threads. I'll admit, I don't know a letter about cross-border studies. I will be very curious to know him, especially if one of his authors is Prof. Jarosław Górniak, who was the chairman of the National Council of Science Congress and my close associate. On Sunday, we're going to have another expert conference, so I'm going to ask him about this letter. The university should be a community of those who pursue the truth. There's no question about that. The law does not compromise this idea of the university to the slightest extent. On the contrary, through new rules on evaluation, which focus no longer on the number of publications, not on the number of articles, but on quality. I want to remind you that we want to evaluate no more than 4 but the most outstanding achievements By appreciating the educational dimension of the university and by moving away from mass, which is expressed as, for example, In the new financial algorithm, we return to the original idea of the university as a plane of community and dialogue towards the truth. As regards the relationship with the Law and Justice Act, this relationship was expressed in almost unanimous support of the Law in the Sejm. Indeed, there have been various positions here, different discrepancies, but we have reached a compromise. The changes that Senator Wind was talking about with regard to the university council were to a large extent a consequence of the doubts raised by parliamentarians, Members, as well as senators, Law and Justice. Many other adjustments have also been made at the initiative of law and justice policy makers. I think working on this bill is a good example of what cooperation should be like in a government camp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u108	Does the senator want to clarify or ask a new question? [[Precisely.]] Precisely. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u109	I'm addressing the Minister. The letter was sent a month and a half ago, and Professor Górniak, Professor Edigarian and other prominent professors, are not the authors of the letter, but those who support the arguments contained in it. I'll keep you posted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u110	As you may have noticed, the Ministry is now addressed to many individual letters and various statements. That letter just slipped my mind. I'm sure I can analyze this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u111	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u112	Thank you kindly. I have four questions and I ask you to divide my speech into two parts, because in a minute I won't ask four questions, I won't fit. I'd like to write it down. [[Good.]] The first two questions concern finance and are actually trivial. First. The environment expects an increase in salaries after the entry into force of the financial rules following the Minister's statements. There is talk of 800 PLN a month more. I would ask both for confirmation and a presentation, as the Prime Minister sees these financial matters. Two. There have been numerous demands of PAS employees, in particular PAS research institutes, whose contribution, in terms of different rankings and scientific achievements, is very important, to include them in the individual financing system, in this pay system. What's the story? What are the prospects for this right call for about 4,000 people?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u113	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u114	Indeed, the law on which you will be voting in the near future provides for an increase in the minimum salaries, I stress: the minimum fees at universities. In the case of professors, it is slightly over PLN 1 thousand, in the case of assistants of PLN 860, in the case of assistants of PLN 800. On the scale of university earnings, these are significant increases. Regardless of this, the government has announced that next year we will generally want to raise the salaries of all university staff. How much? This will depend on the economic performance and on the commitment, including the senators, for which I am asking warmly. I ask you to support my efforts to increase spending on science and higher education in Poland as quickly as possible. What can we count on when it comes to strictly legal decisions? The Act guarantees an increase in minimum salaries, which I mentioned, guarantees an increase in higher education and education expenditure of 700 million next year, guarantees a one-off issuance by the government of State Treasury bonds of a total of PLN 3 billion to the division between public universities and introduces an algorithm guaranteeing annual increases in science spending compared to GDP. It's not, as you've noticed, a very vertical line, but that's the state's ability at the moment. Regarding increases for employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences, this is not the matter of this law. The issues of the Polish Academy of Sciences and its functioning are governed by a separate law. Yesterday at the committee meeting, in response to the amendment tabled by Senator Żaryna, I announced that I would make such a gentleman's undertaking that I would make talks with the Prime Minister and with the rest of the government about the possibility of raising salaries also to the employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Today I could not support such a request because it is not agreed within the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u115	You're asking Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u116	Prime Minister, I will go to such maybe more trivial questions, more technical ones, I will not refer to the idea of the bill, because we have talked about this many times and I express my full support for this idea. I have two technical questions. The first question is that the law abolishes the so-called. minimum staff, i.e. there is no minimum staff left in universities, only teachers in practical studies must do at least 50% hours, are teachers employed on a full-time basis in the primary workplace, and in general academies 75% Hour, hour, hour, My question is this. Will this also apply from 1 October to those students who are already students who have started their studies earlier, who have started their studies and studied on the basis of the old law? It's a minimum of personnel. How are universities supposed to relate to this? Should this minimum apply to students who will finish their studies in the coming years, but who have started them in the previous system, whether they are no longer in force and only what is in the new law? And the second question is also a technical question, relating to the latter law, to the introductory provisions. There, as regards the powers to confer a doctoral degree and a habilitated doctor, we have the situation that, if the university was in category C or not categorized, it loses the powers to confer a degree of doctor habilitated on 1 October, i.e. on the date of entry into force of the law, even though it had obtained these powers earlier, on the basis of those provisions which were in force. Wouldn't it be fairer to extend this period and allow these universities to retain these powers, of course, until they have undergone a new category? If they obtain a minimum category B+, they will still have those rights if they do not, they will lose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u118	Thank you very much. Yeah, staff minima will be shut down from October 1st. This also applies to those courses of study or to those of the students who started their studies prior to the planned entry into force of the law. As far as the second point is concerned, I'm even a bigger rigor than the bill. I believe that individuals with category C should also not be entitled to a doctoral degree because having category C is evidence of a abnormally low level of scientific research in a given unit. Therefore, it is debatable whether an individual who is unable to conduct research at a decent level alone is able to promote doctors at a decent level. In consultation with the academic community, we considered that a rigorous approach such as that which I represent is an approach that may be overly rigorous, debatable, but in the academic community there is actually no doubt that if an individual has a category C, it should not give habilitation, because it is already a very gross imbalance. I would like to remind you of what Senator Wind has already mentioned: today, in order to have the right to give degrees or doctorate or habilitation, quantitative criteria must be met first and foremost, i.e. to have an adequate number of independent academics employed on the first year. This is not, as you can easily see, the most appropriate criterion, we should replace it with qualitative criteria. We have discussed with the academic community for a long time what these quality criteria should be, and it has strongly outweighed the view that these should be categories, scientific categories. Once every four years, universities or scientific institutes are subject to this evaluation, categorization reflects the level of research in a given discipline and therefore we want to link these powers to the level represented by the individual in this discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u119	The question is Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Two short questions. Before I ask them, I would like to thank not only for the bill, which the environment has been waiting for long, but also for the mode of its implementation, because it is worth mentioning that the entire consultation cycle has actually embraced higher education, students and everyone could have said in this context. The questions will be quite detailed. One shall apply to Article. 265, i.e. evaluation of the quality of scientific activities. I was asked in my community about the issues of publications that will publish scientific publications. Is this regulation, especially the mouth. 9, combined with another article, but will not limit the freedom of science as such? Because at the moment, the basis for publishing monographs is the review presented by an independent scientist. This led to the person who, for example. She couldn't spend at her university or at her university, she could spend outside. Isn't there going to be a limit to this freedom here, Prime Minister, because they might be... Because I understand that in this list of publishing houses that are mentioned in the bill, there will be mainly academics, universities, universities, academies as those that create mainly... But does this record, as if we weren't pouring out the baby with a bath and causing a significant reduction in the possibilities of publishing the scientific community? I'd like the Prime Minister to take this into account. And the second question may be a little outside the law, but concerning the list of scientific disciplines. This is due to the fact that in this list, in these particular discipline projects they appear once, once they disappear. I had a meeting with the scientific community of surveyors and cartographers... I'm not a surveyor or a cartographer, so I'm not lobbying for my scientific community, but I'm going to ask, because they pointed out that with a narrow number of surveyors and cartographers in our country, this discipline, which falls... could cause a significant depletion of the group in these fields, so needed for the economy, for spatial development... If the Prime Minister had been kind enough to refer to this as well... Although, of course, it is already extra-legal matter and related to the regulation that the Prime Minister will issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u122	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank the senator for appreciating this bill. He is indeed unique after 1989 and even the European Commission, which is not necessarily very supportive of our government in all matters, precisely the way in which this law is being worked out puts other EU countries as a role model. As far as the list of publications is concerned, we really want to make such a list in order to eliminate these publications called in the literature by professional predatory publications or, in common terms, printing machines in the garage at the brother-in-law's. Unfortunately, part of the monograph is published in this way. I would like to say that the list will be up-to-date inclusive, i.e. by definition it will cover all academic publishing houses, Mr. Senator rightly anticipates this. But it will also include hundreds of non-academic publishing houses, both Polish and foreign, only those that apply to so-called. the code of ethics of COPE, the code of ethics of publishers, e.g. The fact that books in these publications are reviewed. Therefore, we do not see here the slightest threat to the freedom of research, nor do we see the threat, which some raise, that there will be an increase in the prices of publishing scientific monographs. Since this list will cover several hundred Polish publications and several hundred foreign publications, there is no risk of price increases here. As regards the list of disciplines, first of all I would like to say that none of the lists, none of the lists in circulation, is authorised by the Ministry. These are letters prepared by various parts of the academic community. Sometimes by this team I was talking about, selected by several leading organizations bringing together the academic world, and sometimes these are bottom-up proposals of individual scientists. I can't tell you what the future of geodesia and cartography is, but I want to calm... Ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of some discipline as a separate discipline does not mean that a given research area will disappear, because, of course, research will continue. There were demands. I'm not in favour of them, I'm in favour of them. The archaeology and history, as is the case in most countries of the world, should be treated as a common science, i.e. as a so-called science. historical sciences. This solution works, as I said, in many countries, but this does not mean that there is no archaeological research in these countries. This only means that archaeological research is considered as part of a broader scientific discipline, that is, historical science. However, in this case, It's to dispel any doubts I myself am in favour of the separation of these disciplines due to differences in archaeological research methods. These are increasingly methods derived from science, experimental methods, biological, chemical and even astronomical methods. So it seems to me that this separation from history is very clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u123	You're asking Senator Rocki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u124	Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: I don't think the card works...]] [[Take it out and put it in again.]] Now, yes. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Yesterday at the committee meeting, I didn't hear the answer to my questions and my doubts, so I'm going to repeat them today. The first case is related to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, which introduces a list of examples of names, types of organizational units of universities. Since the next article states that the professional university is formed by a minister through a regulation, I assume that the Prime Minister has an idea of the definitions of these concepts and knows what it is, for example. the college. Second case, also in the context of yesterday's questions. What kind of MBA studies are listed in the Law on State Property Management? These principles state that the relevant powers are held by a person who has graduated from Master of Business Administration. We know that there are institutions that aren't universities, but they give diplomas. How does the Prime Minister understand that term? And the third question in this series. Then I'll have another vote. Does the dual diploma programmes fall within the scope of Article. 60, who's talking about joint college? They operate on the market, in universities, 2 types of programs implemented together with foreign universities. It's either called a double diploma, if a student gets two diplomas, or a multiple program... Different. It's a double diploma, which is signed by two universities, or a multiple diploma that... no, once again, I got it wrong. The opposite is true: a double diploma means that you get two of them, and a multiple diploma means that there are several university names on it that participate in such a consortium... In this provision, it is said precisely and in a singular number that the university conducts joint studies, among others. with a foreign university. Can this be understood in the plural, i.e. You think it's about universities that make up such a consortium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u126	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of types of organisational units was included in the final version of the bill as a result of the doubts or misunderstandings that I mentioned, the misunderstandings that the law forcedly removed the departments. To resolve these doubts, we gave examples of types of organizational units, including departments, colleges, etc. We do not intend to define in a statutory manner what the different types are. Firstly, we believe that a certain tradition should be addressed here, because not everything must be regulated legally. It seems to me that the great weakness of the Polish legislative system is that we want to cover too much of the issue with very detailed regulations. Secondly, we do not want to restrict autonomy here either. As far as the issue of double diploma is concerned, I believe that this can also apply to many universities. I'll admit I can't answer an MBA question. That's a question that the senator will allow. I will answer in writing because it is, so to speak, specialized. I don't know. I'm looking at my coworkers. Whether it's regulated at all. It's not a legal matter because... well, I answer now. Please let me do this. Not as a minister, but as a person trying to think on his own. I believe that MBA studies are a typical example of postgraduate studies and are therefore not regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u127	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I know you'll be repeating yourself in a moment or you'll have to repeat yourself in your answers. I don't want to go into this bad tradition, but some threads have to go back to. We are also talking here among the Senators of Law and Justice about the fact that this law certainly has one feature. Namely, we are not able to discover until the end of its effects, the effects that will occur. It could be for better or for worse. This is not only due to the reading of the bill, but also to those voices that come to you, including the voices of the humanities. Since this is, you can say, a general reflection or opinion on this law, I have some questions. First question. You declared that in January This does not mean that it is necessary in January You will be prepared to verify what will happen in connection with the entry into force of this law. Can you, as Minister, tell us today, based on concrete examples, because of course, every example will have different consequences in the chronology of events... How fast do you think we're likely to discover the effects of a bill that we're experiencing today as some kind of doubt? And now the specific questions for this general question. I want to go back to Senator Kleina's words and to the many speeches related to humanities. As for the question of Senator Kleina, which I support, I also clearly support this doubt... Namely, do you foresee the possibility not to dogmatically approach this number of 13 people, students per employee, and also not to bind the so-called. regional universities only with de facto additional funding, what is the grant path? As a result, it is intended to have a proper effect, that is to say, to raise the staff itself. All of this is internal logic, but it has one fundamental, well, not so much a flaw as a trait. It's like it's rubbing against dogmatism. And as you know, dogmatism has a thing for itself, that if someone gets too attached to it, they may, unaware of it, make an awful lot of mistakes. Therefore, in the case of these so-called. regional universities you see such a time, such a time in which you could analyse the positive effects that the law provided, but which it did not achieve precisely because the tools adopted in this case, e.g. Granted, didn't they pass the exam? The second example of humanities is what Senator Majer mentioned, but I didn't really get the main tone of the answer... Namely, this list of university publications is, of course, a list of It can be said that it is permanent and it is not subject to special discussion here. This list of publications, especially academics, I understand. It will be compared to the Philadelphia list or any other list, whatever we call it. However, as you know, Minister In the case of humanities, we are dealing with a beautiful word "Tradition," a tradition consisting of the fact that there are qualified publishing houses, mainly such as in Warsaw, Neriton, DiG and LTW or Poznań's Profit, the list can be very large, and names can be multiplied, which have become clearly exemplary publishers, very well presented in terms of achievements and levels of scientific work. Are these publications of this type And who's gonna decide that? Will they be on these letters? There is no reason for scientists to go away from certain good customs, i.e. to contact publications that guarantee the level of editorial binding, the whole publishing tooling. That's it for now, but I'd like to sign up for another batch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u129	You can sign up for the senator. It's already written down. There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u130	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. A team of experts will decide on which release will be included in this list, but if I can anticipate this decision Of course, all the publications listed by your Senator will be included in this list, because, as I said, this list is intended to be maximum inclusive. We only want to eliminate pseudo-disciplinarys that publish books that are not published in any scientific study for money. I share the concern of the senator or earlier Senator Kleina for the future of regional universities. They're important for a lot of reasons. Let me give you an example. I would just like to draw your attention, because Mr. Senator mentioned this factor, about the ratio of the number of students to the number of academics, no more than 13:1... This is actually a solution beneficial to regional universities, because in the case of the previous algorithm, these major universities were profitable. In a literal sense, receive as many students as possible, regardless of the level, regardless of whether the university was able to provide the right conditions for high-level education. As you know, the best Polish universities, the Warsaw University or the Jagiellonian University, during a certain period exceeded the number of 50,000 students. Now they have forty-six thousand students. The best universities in the world usually have no more than 20,000. I just happened to look at Senator Rocky. I'm going to say that this is an example of pathology. I don't hesitate to use that word. The previous method of financing was related to what was happening in economic universities, which were the most massive. Unfortunately, the level of education was the greatest devastation there, but with one boastful exception. This boastful exception was the School of Economics, which from the beginning followed the principle that it was to educate elitely, and therefore lost money in the previous financial system. Today, these kind of elite universities Whether it's SGH, or it's e.g. Jesuit Ignatianum in Kraków They're gaining. We have observed that after the entry into force in 2017, the algorithm in last year's recruitment for the first time in many years has increased recruitment at many academic regional universities, e.g. at the Koszalin University of Technology. What does that tell you? The fact that the neighbouring major universities stopped sucking students out of these smaller centres at all costs. The most appropriate way of developing regional universities is, in my opinion, what the Minister, Senator Bobko, pointed out, or development programmes addressed to individual universities. I share the argument that for the Polishness of Szczecin it is very important to develop the University of Szczecin, only that in the name of this development we should not lead to a lowering of the level of requirements and this applies to all universities in Poland It's necessary to be able to broadcast PhDs or habilitations. Instead, we should direct development measures at a point, to universities that are of significant regional importance, and in this case even national I mean the whole western wall. Senator Żaryn has repeatedly paid attention to this matter. Repeat: development programs. If it were included in the budget of an additional 100 million for the development of the University of Szczecin, it would be an appropriate instrument to take care of the Polish Recovered Lands. Of course, it's like Senator Zaryn said. In the case of such large cross-cutting reforms, their far-reaching effects are difficult to predict, especially since this law is definitely expanding the autonomy of universities and therefore a great deal will depend on how individual universities will use this enlarged area of freedom. Whether they use it to grow or not. Well, it could also be that they're going to concrete solutions that are causing stagnation. That's why the Ministry is planning continuous monitoring. We will not only capture such obvious errors. I hope you are absent from this act, but always possible as a lack of comma in the key place. We will also see how universities use these new instruments, this extended autonomy space, which is their adaptation strategy. Whether it's a stagnation strategy or a pro-development strategy And depending on that, we're going to make modifications, including in the time frame that Senator Żaryn told us about. In general I would like to say that as a Conservative, I tried to make this law grow out of a certain philosophy of the state. This is a philosophy that emphasizes continuity. Firstly, this law upholds all solutions that have proved true in the past, all solutions that are present in the current 4 laws. Secondly, I wanted the new law to be created in dialogue and indeed such a dialogue was, moreover, unprecedentedly broad. Thirdly, I wanted changes to be of an evolutionary nature, so the last stage of the implementation of the law we are discussing today is 2026. So for eight years, we've written down the entry into force of this law. And in the end, of course, it must be a deep reform, not according to the principle of the "Geparda" di Lampedusa "the principle that much has to change so that everything remains unchanged." We change as little as possible, but so that what is important develops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u131	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I remember my speech at the study committee meeting and I maintain it in full. I will continue to talk about the fact that I am glad that science will knock on the national economy. But my question was going in a different direction. I missed you, Prime Minister, in our discussion that took place at the science committee meeting... To be precise, I lacked 50% in this provision to specify that when a university is technical, it should be a representative of the national economy. That's what I'm talking about, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u133	Excuse me, I misunderstood the senator's statement. I would like to say that I regret that, as part of building a compromise, including a political compromise, we have introduced this amendment allowing universities to choose most of the board members from among university staff. I believe that these advices will work much better on those universities, which will also make use of the statutory option, so that most of them are outside the council. As for who should be on this council, here the decision is left to the wisdom of the academic community. I mean. Generally speaking, we wrote this law on the assumption that we have confidence in the academic world, trust in the wisdom of this world. I can't imagine that there's no business representatives in technical universities among the board members. I am convinced that at all technical universities, but also at most other universities there will be such people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u134	You're asking Senator Oremski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u135	If a list is made for universities on the so-called. Lands Recovered, please add Wroclaw. I do not share the optimism that Senator Fedorowicz spoke about, that universities are a community of conversations. I have the impression that universities have become an area of autonomy for departments. And in this sense, a little of such extortion at universities to carry out structural changes might speed up the process with regard to the elements of self-repair. But I understand that as a result of the conversation... Would you agree, Prime Minister, with such a theory that you are making such modifications that, using the sport language, you say: you can prepare for the competition as you wish, but I am setting the finish line and will measure your time in time? So far it has been so that everyone could prepare as they wanted, there was no way to know where the meta is, and we said that participation is important, like for example. in the case of Equatorial Guinea, its participation in the Olympic Games shall be treated. Is this a kind of change, which is that you really expect, not immediate effects, but those that will be delayed in time, which will be achieved while maintaining far-reaching autonomy, non-turning as if a table? The second question concerns humanities. Whether this law in the long term will mean the deletion or limitation of the possibility that existed in Poland, I believe that it has caused more harm than it has benefited. That actually anyone who passed his M.A. could study art history or management and marketing? What is the situation in other countries in this regard? Is this universal study of what you want as far as it was when we were dealing with it in Poland? And the third question that I am obliged to ask because I committed myself to this respect to the employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The point is that perhaps you deny the idea that the increase for university employees, not the increase for, yet, the employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences, was a hidden conspiracy to cause these workers to switch to universities and polytechnics, and that it would kill the functioning of the Polish Academy of Sciences?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u136	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u137	Thank you very much. First of all, if the senator gives me his license, I'm gonna use this sports metaphor to give up the spirit of this bill, because that's exactly what this is all about. We say: there is a goal, there is a way to go, there is a space to overcome. What way are you gonna beat her? It's up to the individual universities. It doesn't have to be that the bill imposes everything from the top, e.g. structure. It is important to achieve this goal at a certain time. So the spirit of this law, on the one hand, is definitely a pro-quality spirit, and on the other hand, emphasising the freedom of this academic world. Incidentally, the senator noticed very well and referred to one of the diseases of this world. This space of dialogue is shrinking in various ways, sometimes under the influence of some ideological pressure and not by any means from the government. In general, however, I would like to say that we have tried in this law to move away from the concept of university as a loose federation of departments for one organic creation, one actually organism. This facilitates and facilitates dialogue, and conducts research, and interdisciplinary education, and training beneficial to students, especially those capable. Is everyone supposed to be graduating? No, among others. That's why we introduced this new algorithm to encourage aspiring universities to name research universities, which are elite, to much more careful seeding. And it's happening, ladies and gentlemen. I will not talk about which particular university is concerned, but I said that this optimal proportion is 1:13, and at this university, located in one of the main academic centers of Poland, at the time of entering into the life of this new algorithm, the proportions of the law were 1:40, and at the direction of the pedagogy, where we should educate with exceptional care, because we educate future teachers, i.e. those who are responsible for intellectual, spiritual formation, for the upbringinging of the young generation 1:55. Now, for such grossly low quality, universities are punished in the most effective way, which is financially. It used to be worth it, now it's not worth it. On the other hand, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, so that the ministry will indicate... or prohibit studying in any direction. This is an autonomous decision of the university, whether it wants to educate more e.g. IT scientists or robotics or humanists, representatives of social sciences, etc. And I think there should be autonomous development strategies here in the different universities. Nevertheless, the Act gives one opportunity to the Minister. Not me, really my successors. In the event of the opening of new courses at public universities, i.e. where education is financed by the money of the general public, the Minister will be able to refuse to start such a course if this is justified by important social or economic considerations. Well, to put it simply, ladies and gentlemen, there's no reason to open pedagogy at the next university. And this is still the most frequently started direction in Poland. We have the most students of pedagogy and new directions are constantly emerging. Does that make any sense? We need to answer this question together. I believe that at elite universities, those who teach at a high level, it may be worth starting pedagogy. But in universities that do not represent a high level of science, opening up further teaching courses is, in my opinion, contrary to the social interest and good of Poles. And I want to strongly condemn this conspiracy theory about the Polish Academy of Sciences. From the beginning I have said in numerous contacts with the environment of the Polish Academy of Sciences that the Ministry does not intend to impose top-down directions of reform of the Polish Academy of Sciences. We look forward to the outcome of the debate that is taking place in the PAN environment. And generally all scientists from the Polish Academy of Sciences are aware that the current formula is anachronistic. However, they vary very deeply as to their views on the direction of the necessary reforms. About half thinks that on the basis of the Polish Academy of Sciences a new university, research university, the other half thinks that individual PAN institutes should cooperate closely with existing universities. Since this division within the Polish Academy of Sciences is very deep and it is indeed a split of half in half, I have announced that in this term I do not foresee any significant corrections at all as regards the Polish Academy of Sciences Act. All the more reason that Contrary to popular belief, also the belief that I had, including the Minister's office, the Polish Academy of Sciences is not subject to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, but to the Prime Minister. This isn't my bill. Here, the Prime Minister should be the initiator of the changes. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u138	Thank you, Prime Minister. Senator Slugocki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Prime Minister, let me start with a positive accent. Personally, I am very pleased with the search for this balance between the number of students, students and quality. And in my opinion, this algorithm: 13 listeners per scientist... I'm very positive about him. In the second step, I would like to modify the metaphor used by my esteemed colleague, Senator Obremski in relation to or in relation to those privileged, let's call it contractual, universities and regional universities. Okay, there's a goal, there's a meta, but regional universities run without shoes, and these leading universities In modern shoes, there is of course a better treadmill, conditioners, biological renewal and running with the wind. I don't drink to Senator Wind in any way. Regional universities don't have those attributes that I've allowed myself to replace in this metaphor. Prime Minister, I'm afraid And that's what you picked up, Senator Wind. The fact that an attempt to decrete, unreflectively decrete the increase in the competitiveness of Polish science and base it on a certain number of universities can to a large extent result in failure, Senator Wind used the phrase "laziness." I'm afraid of it, too. I think, however, that we should leave a lot of space here to build competition on the one hand, but on the other hand, the relationship between science and the environment, i.e. entrepreneurship. The question is how much the Polish economy should influence the competitiveness of Polish science in some areas, because you have also noticed, thank you, Prime Minister, my voice in the context of Polish humanities. You said what I was happy about, because this demonstrates your comprehensive perception of the problem of Polish science, about the strategy of responsible development, but I think, Prime Minister, that you did not lack determination, because that is what you speak about in your speeches, but lacked determination and understanding of the complexity of this problem in the parliamentary majority. I think that since you are preparing such a complex and thorough law, referring to the Responsible Development Strategy, with which you can naturally agree or not, but which raises many issues related to building the competitiveness of the Polish economy... I cannot imagine, Prime Minister, building the competitiveness of the Polish economy without increasing the investment in science and higher education. No, 0.44% GDP on science isn't... I know you picked it up, but I'm describing reality, and I'm showing you what it looks like today, and you're not it. guilty, of course I realize that, and I want to be honest in these questions that I am making. So here's the question. Since we have a Responsible Development Strategy, in my opinion there should be a hard record, and not only there, perhaps also in this law, which would make the development of Polish science dependent or linked the development of Polish science with the transfer of funds from the state budget. At best, you're talking about 1%. GDP. Even though this is a good goal for what we have, it is still at the gray end among the Member States of the European Union. It is impossible to build a conscious society and a competitive economy without much investment in Polish science. I think this is an important element that we should be above divisions, as you say... We should mobilise ourselves, make a responsible decision and increase the expenditure on learning. And a political question to close this tour, Prime Minister. There was a very interesting debate. I didn't participate in it, I watched some of it via electronic media During the committee's work yesterday... [[Is this a debate or a question?]] ...but I have noticed one disturbing element of this discussion, or rather not, Prime Minister. All of them... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry...]] I'll be right with you. [[The question is, because this is not a debate.]] Yes, I've asked a lot of questions, as you've heard, Mr. Marshal. [[It's 1 minute.]] Yes, I know, but thank you for your concern for the senator. [[There you go.]] All the amendments were rejected, and I think they were something that was really worth leaning over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u140	Thank you. There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u141	Thank you very much. Of course, as a representative of the government, I would like the bill to be adopted without amendments, because we consider the shape that came out of the Sejm to be optimal. If that were not the case, we would have introduced these amendments in the Seym stage. By the way, I would like to correct this because at the committee meeting six amendments were supported by the committee. I share the senator's concern for the speed of increased spending on science and higher education as soon as possible. I've already talked about what this bill guarantees us. You'd really want more. For the time being, it is not possible to grow faster than the government's plan for this law in the next year. What's it gonna be like in the next few years? This will be the decisions of this government or the next governments. However, I would like to point out that another channel we are providing additional funding for research, here in the field of science, especially those related to the economy, technical sciences or science. I mean the 2 innovation laws that are already in force. The expected effects of the second law were such that in 2018 in addition to the scientific centers about PLN 1 billion from companies that will invest in R &amp; D. I also want to say and this is very important for the future of regional universities The law that we are currently debating extends the possibilities for the local government to finance universities. I know that Senator Slugock is very close to this subject, because we worked together to increase the funding of the University of Zielona Góra by the Lubuskie Voivodeship government. This is a great example of how cooperation between the local university should look like, very important for the development of Lubuskie voivodship, and local government, because the scale of support from this local government is really impressive. I just want to say that... this is about the earlier statement by Senator Slugocki. Because the senator also called for a change in the proportion of funding for the various fields of science, which is to increase investment in humanities. The government's funding tool for research in the field of basic sciences, including humanities, is the National Science Centre. Every year, I greatly increased my research expenditures financed by the National Science Centre, but last year I was surprised. I wanted to allocate an additional PLN 150 million to finance humanities research, but the Council of the National Science Centre, which consists of 24 leading Polish scientists, declared to me that it does not see the need for such growth, because already in the current spending on humanities this money is partly not used. So in short, there are no humanistic research projects. at such a high level as to justify an increase in humanities spending within the National Science Centre. However, I would like to say that I have doubled, and at the moment I have even raised three times the resources available to the National Humanities Development Programme. So we are also trying to balance funding for the various fields of science within the framework of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u142	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u143	One of the basic demands of the academic community of 1980 in the framework of university autonomy was the choice of university authorities at all levels. I don't really understand why we should leave the dean's choice at college right now. And I would like to know your argument for this solution, Minister, since the choice of deans has proved the same as the choice of rectors by electoral colleges. I don't see the difference here between the level of the entire university and the level of individual departments. That's one thing. Second. I was reassured by the amendment adopted by the Sejm concerning the university's programming councils and the fact that they are opinion-making or actually opinion-making rather than decision-making. But I don't really understand why there's a record that 50% of the board members are supposed to be non-university members. I will appeal to your definition of the wisdom of the academic community should determine which individuals and representatives of what backgrounds the councils are made up of. In Anglo-Saxon universities there are boards of trustes, which consist of the people most deserved for the university. Such a solution is justified. There, no one regulates the proportion of those who are called to these counsels. I would like to know your justification for such a 50% limitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u144	When it comes to the way we choose deans, we move this decision to the level of university statutes. Individual universities under their statutes will determine what structure they have or have, for example. a departmental structure in which there are deans or some other structure. The choice of a collegial structure that the senator referred to in his first statement would mean no deans. Right? The way in which the deans are selected or, as I say, heads of individual types of organizational units will be subject to fundamental decisions on the structure of the university, and in our opinion such decisions should not be made at the statutory level, i.e. they should not be imposed on universities, but should be based on the collective wisdom of the university concerned. We do trust collective wisdom, but I am convinced that the wisdom of the academic community will be even greater if it is powered by outsiders. The German experience is interesting in this respect. University councils were introduced there 12 years ago, and after 10 years a very precise evaluation was carried out. It turned out that most of the universities chose the councils in the proportions proposed here, i.e. about half in half, but there were several universities that decided on a more radical option and all the members of the board chose from outside the university. After 10 years, it turned out that these several universities are developing much faster than the others. Simply different is the point of view of those who do not represent within the university any particular interest, their own department, their own direction, their own, so to speak, discipline, but think of the good of the university as a whole. It turned out that it gave the exam and that then it was much better than when there were representatives of particular groups of internal interests at the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u145	Thank you. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u146	Thank you kindly. I have two questions I've thought about before. One concerns the envisaged effects of the law on a specific but important solution. Namely, practically everything is decided by the categories of universities in this law. Categorisation takes place according to disciplines that will be aggregated. This needs to be taken. I'll take that under University And that's what I'm talking about. It is intended to present a group of staff associated with the discipline of at least 12 persons to be categorized. The effects of this regulation should be properly specified in the Act. I have a view of this and some serious doubts. I would ask the Minister to be kind enough to justify the minimum number of 12 people representing discipline, plus, and to present the consequences of this provision. They can be very far-fetched. That's the first question. The second is, I think, very simple and concerns the Regional Perfection Initiative. There is a record that the districts, these regional districts, are defined by the minister. Well, most people in the country imagined that the region is what voivodship is now, but at the moment it is not known what this region is and whether Opole will be a region together with Szczecin or something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u147	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u148	It's easy for me to answer the second question, almost impossible to answer the first question. The second one is easy for me to answer, because this competition is already announced, and, as I said, even the deadline for submitting applications has expired. Why did we even put in regional envelopes like this? If we hadn't introduced this, it would have turned out that most of the grants would have won universities from Krakow, Warsaw, Poznań, Wrocław, but not the best ones, such as the Jagiellonian University or the Warsaw University, but the worse ones. We care about sustainable development, so we have created envelopes guaranteeing that some means will go to scientists from Western Pomerania, scientists from Podlasie, Podkarpacie, from Senator Opolszczyzna, mentioned by you. The problem is that in these voivodships academic institutions are very unevenly distributed. In the Mazowieckie voivodship of such universities there are at least a dozen, and in the Opole voivodship there are only 2 universities. It is similar in the Podkarpackie Voivodship Only 2 universities. 2 universities are also in Lubuskie voivodship. Therefore, in the case of some voivodships we have created some kind of overregions, i.e. centers, universities from Podkarpackie voivodship and Świętokrzyskie voivodship compete. This is where the competition is. In total, these 4 universities compete for 3 large grants, with 4 years of scientific grants. In the case of Opole, if I recall, the Opole universities compete for these grants with Lower Silesian universities. Effects of evaluation. Well, it's crazy hard to predict, because today's evaluation is not in discipline, it's in organizational units. And where did that number come from, 12? In general, I would like to tell you that we have tried to write this law on the basis of the widest possible dialogue with the scientific community on the one hand and, on the other hand, on the basis of the principle of evidence-based policy, which is to refer to various objective standards, research and international, and Polish, we have also ordered such research ourselves. We think that 12 is the minimum number of researchers in a given discipline, guaranteeing a sufficiently high level of research. On the other hand, we wanted to avoid such a situation that the university will bring in 3 outstanding professors and the achievements of these 3 professors will be combined in competition with another university, which in a given discipline has e.g. 100 academics, professors, doctors, masters. So 12 is such a necessary minimum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u149	Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I would like to return to the purpose of this bill, because your extraordinary commitment to this law, which lasts two years of broad consultation... It's one of the laws that was most consulted. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how you see the prospects of this bill. And what's your dream about her? I mean. When, in your opinion, it is possible to emerge the best universities and promote to the so-called. Shanghai leaves? Or I go further: does the Prime Minister dream that this bill will bring us a Nobel Prize winner in the long run? The bill will be monitored. It has 211 pages, it's a big bill. There is no law that, immediately introduced, does not contain something that we will not improve in the future. The number of questions that are being asked right now... I am personally surprised by this because there were opportunities to ask them at the consultation stage. I absolutely support that we are introducing laws and monitoring them, but if the Prime Minister were to refer to the purpose of the bill... What are you dreaming about? What, with this bill, will the Prime Minister achieve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u151	Thank you so much for that question. It refers to such objective indicators of success. I think that such a measure can be to improve the position of Polish universities in world rankings and, above all, to make one of the Polish universities enter the first hundred rankings. There are 3 most important rankings: Shanghai rankings, Timesa rankings and QS rankings. In this most frequently quoted by the media, although not necessarily the most valid, Shanghai ranking soon, because in August, for the first time in the history of the Polish university will most likely be in the third hundred. It's going to be the University of Warsaw. I am talking about this because the law gives prospects for development to Polish universities for the future, but the reforms we are introducing in the last 2 years are already producing positive effects. I mean not only this promotion of the University of Warsaw. I am even more pleased with the recently announced QS ranking in the first thousand best universities in the world, with 14 Polish universities, of which 5 for the first time. So you can see that there's a wave coming, that it's not like there's one leader who's gotten ahead of himself. In fact, the third hundred is not an impressive result, only that there is indeed a wide increase in the quality of scientific research. I think that within 5 to 7 years, if there are universities who want to use this space well, a wider autonomy space, the best Polish university can enter the first hundreds of Shanghai rankings. This is a real purpose. As far as the potential Nobel Prize winners are concerned, we already have two outstanding physicists, one of whom until last year was listed as a candidate for the Nobel Prize. For the research that he did as a 26-year-old, very groundbreaking research. The Nobel Prize was awarded to another team of scientists, but Prof. Trautman was considered a Nobel Prize winner until the end. At the moment, the candidacy of Professor Tomasz Dietl, a person who, incidentally, worked very closely with the Ministry in the drafting of a bill submitted to the High Senate, is being considered very seriously. For me, it is important that the law guarantees the chances of development especially for a young generation of scientists, because it is in them the future. I'll share with you the good news... not yet, but the announcement. At the end of this month, it is to be realized. As you know, the European Research Council grants are the most prestigious in Europe. In this respect, we are very far removed from even countries such as Hungary. Hungary has three times as many grants as Poland. But the situation has improved for 2 years, which is related to the fact that on my initiative, that at the initiative of the Ministry at the Polish Academy of Sciences a team of experts was established financed by the Ministry, which prepares Polish scientists to apply for these grants. And the results are that last year, grants received for the first time 3 Polish scientists all went through the training of this team. And this year's announcement is because, as I say, it is not yet official information that as many as 4 scientists will receive these grants for the first time. All these four went through these trainings organized at the Polish Academy of Sciences. My dream, Mr. Senator, is that at the end of the next term we can all meet here in this room and say, the first hundred won. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u152	Mr. Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, in answer to Senator Klich's question, you said that if the university autonomously, at the status level, decides that it has departments, it will have deans, and like a colleague, it will not. The SGH is an example that doesn't... That's where the dean's classmates are. And here we go back to my first question, what is college. At some point in time, the university will have to define its structure, and it would be good if it had views in common with the Minister, otherwise there might be problems. But that's not a question. The second thing about your question... You said, Prime Minister, that the Dean could be chosen. Perhaps, but only in indicative elections, because it is clearly said that it is the Rector who appoints people to act as leaders. So if there's a dean, he'll be appointed by the rector. Perhaps the rector at the level of the statute will propose that indicative elections be held, giving him the candidates he appoints. Yeah, but in this area, It's a one-man decision by the rector. My questions concern the issue of autonomy, which the Prime Minister has repeatedly referred to. In a previous version of this law, it was stated that the initial examination carried out by the university could take, as far as recruitment results are concerned, at most 50% ...in the Parliamentary amendments, this record is gone. I didn't follow who was the initiator of this change, but there are two possibilities: either that's the word disapproval of high school degrees, or an expression of an increase in autonomy for universities, because in this case universities 100% they may consider their initial exams as a recruitment criterion, except for the full degree. And the M.A. I supported as a recruitment criterion when she came in is, as it turns out, a good tool for comparing high schools, but it's a bad recruitment tool because it's not selective as universities would expect. And the second case, also related to autonomy. Art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 states that the model of the diploma is approved by the Senate. In the mouth. 1 it is said that the person who receives a diploma confirming his/her university education and his/her professional title I'm not gonna read it all. A master's degree, an engineer's master's degree or equivalent... In your opinion, the Prime Minister of Economics, the Master of Chemistry, are these professional titles equivalent to the Master's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u154	Thank you. There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u155	In my opinion, in one case and in the other case, you just have to talk about master's, without specifying whether it's a master's degree in philosophy or a master's degree in chemistry. I think this is where the equivalence is obvious. As far as the M.A. rule is concerned, I'm going to say that... I've been looking at my colleagues here, because some changes have actually been voted out in the Sejm at the last minute and not all of them can be accurately described at the moment. According to my associates... If the marshal would allow it, Minister Piotr Müller could refer to it. [[Good.]] But there is no such fear or such hope It depends on which side to look at Senator Rocki. As for the first thread on the appointment of the dean, I would like to say that this matter will be settled by statute. The constitution of the university is adopted by the Senate, i.e. the Senate will ultimately define the rules for the selection of the dean, provided that they are deaned at the university. In fact, after the election, in one way or another regulated by the Senate, the dean is to be appointed by the rector, because the law actually increases the competence of the rector. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the dean's part of the university is chosen against the rectors. It is as if Prime Minister Moravian ministers elected the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which some of the people here smiles, I see that even literally smiles. It would not be an optimal solution for the functioning of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, how will the country in which the ministers choose the opposition work? How is the university supposed to function where the dean chooses those who are conflicted with the rector? Therefore, in the end, the deans or persons of other leadership positions should be appointed by the rector. As in the case of the government, our political camp is in favour of the prime minister's strong position, i.e. the Chancellor's model, so we want the decision-making vote within the university, within the framework of the principle of academic self-government, to be among those who have the strongest democratic mandate, i.e. the elected rector.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u156	So now you're Undersecretary of State Piotr Müller, Deputy Minister, will change the Prime Minister for a moment, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u157	Yes. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as to recruitment, this is where this change took place in a different way. She's actually restoring what's actually happening. I mean, it's not like it's just deleted that 50% requirement. , only in fact the obligation to use Matura for recruitment is introduced and the possibility is introduced, optionally, of introducing an exam to an extent that has not been regulated by Matura. So, in fact, this is it. the same as now, i.e. the possibility of an additional preliminary exam in the scope which is not checked by the exam. But basically it shouldn't be 100%. an examination carried out by the university. Of course, it will have a much greater role in particular in the case of sports or artistic universities, but this is a different situation with regard to these specific universities. Therefore, there is no fundamental change here as to what is in force in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u158	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please kindly... Senator Slugocki is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, one last question on my part. I'll repeat what I asked Senator Wind. I am referring to the issues of evaluation, the time limits which appear in the legislation. In many of the laws that I have also carried out in my time, we have introduced dictionaries of terms, terms, clarification or creating a uniform interpretation of certain concepts. Have you not, however, thought about it, Prime Minister, that such a dictionary should also be included in this bill? This would be clear not only from the point of view of those who would carry out the evaluation process but also from the point of view of the academic community, which could be properly prepared for it. The point is that we all understand the same things in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u161	Thank you very much. We are fully aware of the fact that we have left the dictionary in the act. In general, we have tried to write this law in a slightly different legislative spirit than before. This law is much more framework-based, and the scope of cases transferred to the level of institution's internal acts, i.e. above all the statutes, is much broader. And despite the volume, the considerable volume of this bill, we managed almost to fully implement the principle that the British have been implementing for several years: they in, two outs. So in place of the current rules, we introduce twice as many rules. This is such a measurable space of freedom that we're expanding. And if the bill raises questions of interpretation This is probably the way the Ministry plans a very broad training course for individual universities since September, but also for individuals: chancellors, Quaestors, Deans, Rectors. So that's how we're going to try to meet the question of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u162	Thank you. Senator Slugocki... [[I just asked.]] Oh, you already did. So you're Senator Żaryn. [[There isn't. Next up is Jackowski.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I'll get back to the humanist issue. Do you not think, Prime Minister, that if the content of this regulation had already been drawn up, at least in the form of a project, with a specific list of these magazines, it might have facilitated some, well, searching for a common language and calmed the mood in the humanist community? I think maybe in this case... As I understand it, experts will be drawing up a list like this. Perhaps it would be worthwhile to be tempted to do so and thus put out those, as the Prime Minister says, misunderstandings, misunderstandings of the essence of the reform or those fears that may be simply formulated to maturity. And it's a project like that. For some consultation or further arrangements, but already with a specific list Perhaps he would have calmed down the atmosphere. It's the content of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u164	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is an all-right request, and we're going to do it in the next few weeks. Because, as I have already announced, at the end of July we will pass on the project to the academic community: a draft regulation for consultation. In the meantime, consultations are ongoing with the various groups. I mentioned earlier that I met with deans and directors of humanities institutes of Cracow universities, I met with rectors, scientific rectors of artistic universities, and this week I also meet with a group of leading Polish humanists. Next week, consultations for representatives first of Poznań, Lubuskie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships It'll be in Poznan. After consulting in Lublin for Lublin, Podlaskie and Podkarpackie voivodships, such consultations are ongoing. I hope that these fears will gradually decrease. I think my article, which I mentioned earlier, published in the Rzeczpospolita, has also calmed my concerns a little bit, where I described how we imagine an evaluation of humanities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u166	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u167	Prime Minister, I have another question. In the bill, as I understand it, there's a possibility that a person with a doctoral degree can get a degree in university professorship. And there it is said: because of the outstanding educational or professional achievements. Well, that's the wording, I'd say, very good and right, but will there be any regulation to whether it's to the end in the autonomy of the university authorities, or will there be any criteria... 'Cause, you know, like... in the case of humanities, these may be very different assessments. Right? Whether a collection of articles is some kind of work or popular science... Well, there could be discussions about that. Whether 10 books are big, and 2 books are small, or vice versa, what books are... What rules would be laid down that would somehow try to objectify... I'm not just talking about humanities, but there are criteria in every scientific discipline that can be defined in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u168	Thank you. There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u169	Thank you. The law provides, to be precise, not so much a title as a university professor's position for people with a doctoral degree and outstanding achievements in some field. I will illustrate this with two examples in this area, which is close to the senator, and I am close because of my profession, that is, in the field of political science. The most popular lecturer in international relations at universities in the world, especially American universities, was Dr. Kissinger, a person with a doctoral degree, but outstanding practices. If today, Mr. Senator, we tried in two to identify three people who could conduct lectures in the field of political science at Polish universities in the most inspiring way, I suppose we would mention two professors. And here maybe we'd be different about names, but we'd probably come to an agreement sooner or later, anyway, the pool of names wouldn't be too wide. And the third person we would agree on would be a modest Dr. Jarosław Kaczyński, who, due to his enormous political experience, could be as exciting a lecturer as Henry Kissinger. And now: does the Ministry intend to introduce any objective measures here? No. We believe that, within the framework of university autonomy, the university itself will decide who will be entrusted with the honor of acting as university professor. Here, for the senators, information: the position of the university professor should not be confused with the title of the so-called. Professor of Belvedere, i.e. In order to get this title, you have to go through the appropriate sieve selective, reviewative, you need to have a truly outstanding scientific achievement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u170	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, all I would add to your last statement is that, as I understand it, Master Tusk... [[No. When he gets his PhD.]] [[When he gets his PhD.]] He could also be a very wonderful personality. In view of your long cooperation in one government, I'm sure you'll add that name as well. Prime Minister, there are a lot of words here on both sides about uncertainty. You keep saying that you're dispelling certain doubts. I would like to say right away that as far as the matter that Senator Jackowski was referring to is concerned, It would be easier if there was a regulation, I am not so sure, because the law is difficult to change, and the regulation, if by chance, God forbid, the minister changed, could be changed very easily. And we wouldn't take care of it, we wouldn't have any control over it. I would like to congratulate you because you are a very consistent man. For the second time here in the Senate, I can talk to the Prime Minister, and I can see that you can go uphill like you did about five years ago when you were Minister of Justice in the Platform Government. Then you took on such a great reform of the criminal procedure, and you did so against a very large number of lawyers who were sceptical about it. Today we have heard many words of criticism, falling also from the ranks of Law and Justice, as well as doubts expressed by people in science and by many... This reform has been very long and widely discussed positively and negatively. And I am returning to your previous reform: the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to tell you that one of the first steps of your successor, Minister of Ziobra, was to completely undo that reform. When I listened to the vice-ministers of your government who said that it was an unprepared reform, that it was a bad reform, even though I had some doubts about it when we talked about it here in this Chamber, I wondered how it was that such a reversal of sight and suddenly a reform that you thought was very important was being criticised and actually completely twisted. And my question is whether or not you, despite these assurances, aren't afraid that you're kidnapped for the second time for the big and important thing, but... well, it may not be that this reform is going to produce the fruit we've been expecting. Here, of course, bow towards you because your successor did not give this reform to the justice system even a moment, so that we could not judge it by its fruits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u172	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u173	Thank you very much. As for the first issue raised by your senator, I am convinced that if Master Tusk defends his doctoral work, he will be an excellent candidate for university professor. On the second point, with regard to the reform of criminal law, there has indeed been a fundamental difference in views between me, then Platform policy and the Law and Justice Club. This interdisciplinary model was consistently criticized by the PiS and, as announced, was eliminated after this party came to power. We're not one party, we're a government coalition. We must learn to respect each other and to be willing to make concessions in matters of justice. From the beginning, it was clear in the camp of the United Right that the Law and Justice would be responsible for this area and that these concepts would be implemented here, which would result from the PiS programme. As far as science and higher education are concerned, we have come up with a compromise, a balance between my views. 'Cause if it were just my views, it'd probably look a little different on some issues, reform would be more radical. The views expressed by colleagues from the Law and Justice area. The only threats I see before this law are the possibility for the current opposition to take over power in the future. And I can calm the senator down and assure you that I will do everything I can to ensure that this evil script doesn't come true from the point of view of my bill. [[Mr. Senator, can you still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u174	Mr. Senator... [[But can I exercise the same rights as Senator Jackowski, who also asked a second ago?]] [[No, I signed up, Senator.]] [[Twice? Because you're twice...]] Okay, here you go. Well, I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u175	I just want to say one thing... [[Mr. Jackowski signed up.]] In fact, I have less doubts about this reform than about the previous one. So don't be afraid to come to the power of the Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u176	I remember that the senator is consistent, too. And even when I was reforming the penal code, the senator made his reservations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u177	Thank you. I would like to point out that we are in a question phase. And I encourage you to sign up because no one signed up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm still...]] [[I signed up for the question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sure. I'm just reminding you that we're not in the middle of a discussion, we're in the middle of some questions, so I'd like to ask... [[That's a question! That's a question!]] Sure, I'll write you down. You're a senator. Senator Bobko. There you go. [[Now?]] Yeah, now. You've been saved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u178	Prime Minister, a brief question about the change that took place at the last stage. Namely, I'm talking about art. 218, which defines the powers to assign a degree to a habilitated doctor. It happened that these privileges were aligned with the doctor's degree privileges. This is, I admit, a little surprising for me to change the change, which in my opinion is a little contrary to what we talked about from the beginning, i.e. raising the scientific level. I don't think this change is good for raising the level.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u180	Thank you very much. I share Senator Bobka's view. As I said, the final form of the law is a political compromise, but in this case it is also a compromise between the government and the academic community or an important one, as we have all agreed here, a part of the academic community of secondary and lower academic institutions. Because it was from these universities that there was a demand to slightly reduce the criteria related to entitlement to habilitating. And that is why, as the senator said, we agreed at the final stage of work on this law to this solution. But if it turns out that loosening is too far-reaching, then there is nothing to prevent it from being raised in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u181	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, the first question concerns a contradiction that I see in the article. 198, namely, it is said in the mouth. 1 that doctoral school is an organized form of education in at least 2 disciplines. But in one of the following paragraphs, it is said that a PhD student can run no more than 3 doctoral schools in a given discipline. So once again, doctoral school is run in 2 disciplines, but in one discipline there may be no more than 3 schools... I don't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u183	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, it's a situation like this. The University of Warsaw mentioned here could have created a doctoral school of philosophy and law or law and economics, right? We also allow the possibility of creating another third doctoral school within a given discipline. Why 3 instead of 5, yes? This is also the result of consultation with the academic community. We asked universities to define the optimal number of doctoral schools that these universities would be able to create in a given discipline, for the benefit of the quality of their studies and respecting the principles of a high level. Well, that's exactly what I remember, i.e. the course of the discussion at the Warsaw University... And this is the largest Polish university in the rankings, which holds the highest position, i.e. it can be said that it is definitely one of the leading Polish universities. Well, the university found that more than three schools in a given discipline would not be able to run to maintain them at a really high level. So this solution is the result of some deep reflection and consultation with the academic community. I assume that since the University of Warsaw is unable to run more than 3 schools in a given discipline at a sufficiently high level, it is similar with other universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u185	Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry, because I was absent at a certain point, so I'm not sure I'm gonna do it again. But I have one specific question and one general question. I'll start with the general one, which, I hope, will help you, Minister, in your intergovernmental talks. That is, if you closed your eyes and dreamed, so in the context of the need for Polish science and Polish universities, how would you see next year's budget in terms of GDP for science and higher education? And I say right away: don't wrap this answer in different cottons, just tell me straight away what it looks like from the perspective of your excellent knowledge of what needs are and, above all, from a perspective that is very close to you, i.e. the quality that we want no one to forget about her, as well as the Polish presence in the world. I am undoubtedly quite impressed by a certain text by Professor Żyżyński, published at his time in Rzeczpospolita, in which the text It's very well written. In fact, there is one postulate concern: if there is no more money, no law will be properly implemented and will have no proper effect. So the question is: to what extent will this law not function if your GDP demands in 2019 are no longer met? We would very much like to know what these are, of course, to support you. And a more specific question. The law contains the records concerning the vetting. As you know, I was a longtime employee of the Institute of National Remembrance at various levels. And as you think, are the records that are here? In my opinion, they are not enough to give some hope that a large part of the academic community, including those representing ideas closer to us, i.e. the Law and Justice, will understand that it is precisely this. This record is also a guarantee related to the fact that we want Polish science and higher education to cease to be diagnosed as a legacy of the Polish People's Republic, but to grow in subsequent generations in scientific freedom?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u187	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u188	Thank you very much. The target should not be less than 1% for State budget education. Only with one of those... This is the minimum level of funding for science, guaranteeing not only the development of universities, but also the development of the science-based economy. So 1%. GDP per science and 3% GDP per R &amp; D, which is more than science alone. As you can easily count, we're less than halfway to 1%. I, too, am aware that, regardless of the limited budget possibilities, Polish science is not able to absorb the rains of money at once. Therefore, I would like to turn this stream into a much wider stream. The law provides for an increase of 700 million PLN in science expenditure. In addition, we have announced that we will be, as a government, trying to raise our salaries at universities. Increase in wages by 10% For all university employees, an additional cost of 1 billion 300 million would be incurred. So 700 million for science plus 1 billion 300 million for a 10% increase in wages. In addition, the increase in salaries by 10% in the Polish Academy of Sciences is another 100 million. These are the amounts that I think are real to achieve in the budget. And here I will be very grateful to the senators, especially the representatives of the United Right Camp, for their support. As far as the illustration is concerned, Mr Senator perfectly remembers how strong controversy was accompanied by the law adopted during the 2005-2007 term of office. I take great credit for the fact that the dialogue that the Ministry has been conducting for more than two years with the academic community and certain trust that has taken place between the ministry and a significant part of the environment has led this time to the fact that the illustrious rules that go further than those of 2005-2007 do not raise protests in the academic community. Notice that different issues are being questioned, but not these. In my opinion, this is proof that this attitude of dialogue and, in general, belief in the ability of the academic community to cleanse itself is effective. However, from the point of view of the politicians of the United Right, this is indeed the farthest that has been achieved up to now, the demand for a break from the legacy of communism.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u189	Mr. Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, the first thing I want to ask you is some kind of contradiction, namely in the law implementing the Law on Higher Education in Article. 225 is said that employment relations in the office of the Polish Accreditation Board will expire within 3 months. I'd like to hear why the employees are about to lose their jobs. On the other hand, within the same three months a new statute is to be created, and it is not a secret that employees are mostly involved in the writing of the statutes, so employees, having in the back of their head the fact that they will leave work, are to formulate the provisions of the statutes, which will standardise the work of the committee for the coming years. And also in the context of the accreditation committee... I asked yesterday, but I didn't get an answer either. What will be the impact of refusing to give another comprehensive positive assessment? It seems to me that this should be resolved at the statutory level, not at the level of the PKA Statute. This is too serious to ignore the effects of a de facto negative comprehensive assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u192	As for the first case, there are no contradictions here, Senator. In view of the new tasks that will be presented to the Polish Accreditation Committee and the need to adopt a new statute, we want to give the current PKA authorities, because we do not foresee any changes, the right to select such collaborators as they consider optimal. We know from Professor Dix's announcement that he intends to extend his employment contracts to all his employees. So this is a possibility, also due to a certain credit of trust, which we are giving to the current PKA directorate. As for the second case, Mr Müller, if you'll allow the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u193	You're welcome. Mr Müller. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As regards the comprehensive assessment, it is a type of assessment which gives additional powers. Any negative comprehensive assessment shall not have any negative consequences. However, the university does not obtain extensive powers, e.g. within the scope of freedom of study where it does not have an appropriate scientific category.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u195	That's not what I asked. If the university doesn't get a comprehensive positive assessment... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Müller: That's what I'm talking about.]] There's no more program evaluations. And it's not planned when it's going to happen. There's a void. The university has not received a comprehensive positive assessment and has not passed programme evaluations for some time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u196	Programme evaluations should be carried out as a standard at such a time. [[That's what I'm asking.]] This is at least our interpretation as to the purpose of these provisions. It is absolutely not that the subjecting itself to a comprehensive evaluation excludes programme evaluations. Only a positive comprehensive evaluation excludes programme evaluations. This is not about being evaluated, but about getting a positive assessment. [[I understand that this must be regulated at the level of the statute. Yes?]] I'm guessing that's the way the schedule's gonna be specified.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u197	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say, on the margins of our discussion, that there was such a period in the latest history of Poland, in which 4 historians held the most important functions in the country: here Mr. Marshal Borusewicz as Marshal of the Senate, historian Grzegorz Schetyn as Marshal of the Sejm, Prime Minister Donald Tusk and President Bronisław Komorowski. It was a situation, I would say, special. But that's by the way. My question goes to this... I'm glad it's in the article. 20 of the Act is a provision concerning a declaration of gratitude. I agree with the Prime Minister that in its content it is much further along the lines of the law almost 10 years ago. The law excludes persons who were secret collaborators, or employees, the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic from being able to sit in the Council and be a rector. My question... In the case of that bill, all you had to do was file... Even if he was a secret collaborator, but it was a true illustration statement, it did not affect employment or employment. My question is this: has the Ministry of Education considered the possibility of extending this catalogue in the course of the work of the law, so as to include in it a staff with direct contact with teaching, i.e. with students? Has this possibility been considered? Because for now, as I understand it, there's only the members of the council and the rectors in the bill. What about the other employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u199	Thank you. [[Minister of Science and Higher Education Jarosław Gowin: As Minister Müller was responsible for this party of regulations, I would vote again.]] You're welcome, Minister Müller.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as those covered by this catalogue are concerned, I would say that it is a bit wider, because it covers all those who are members of all university bodies, not only of the university board, but also of the Senate and of the bodies that would possibly be established in the university, in particular the bodies that will give degrees, because only the university body can give a degree. In addition, all persons who perform managerial functions at the university are covered by this obligation. This is an amendment that was introduced in the Seym. All persons performing management functions at the university are dezubecked That would probably be an appropriate term. In fact, as the senator mentioned, this includes these people regardless of the content of the judgment. This is a significant change, unambiguous and evaluating the effects of these individuals. [[Voice from the room: And this is good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u201	Thank you. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question just a little bit on the margins. You mentioned who would possibly be a good lecturer, and you mentioned two professors. Let me ask you this: could Dr. Kaczyński lecture constitutional law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u202	This is already the autonomous responsibility of individual universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u203	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u204	Thank you very much to the senators. [[Applause]] I will say that this was a very substantive discussion, if I can afford such a comment. I really cry sometimes because I left this House almost 10 years ago. [[Come on in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u205	Minister, Prime Minister, regret for the time being. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But okay. I'm sure we're happy about that. I would like to inform you that, after considering the points concerning the law on higher education and science, we will proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on special arrangements for the municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. Let me inform you that the conclusions... Oh, no, because the discussion... yeah, yeah, I'm looking here. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Rocki. I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of the senator... [[The glare.]] ...Gary, Jana Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u206	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! I would like to start with a concrete point, which is that I am very happy and thank you to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for asking an additional question about the illustration and its history, as regards academic institutions, higher education, including the Polish Academy of Sciences. Indeed, the solutions that have been proposed here are solutions that extend the possibilities of illustrative in relation to the years 2005-2007. It is also evidently very comforting that, unlike the situation in 2005 and 2007, in which the illustrative proposals aroused a strong dislike of the academic community, we heard here in response from the Minister and Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin that this issue was not a problem. He did not feel any pressure to refrain from including this party in the proposed law. Since it's such a good climate, and this climate may not come back, I have a very concrete proposal. And that's in the amendments that I'm about to pass on to the marshal. In order to increase the pool of people who will have to comply with the Mirror Regulations in this open formula, not closed, which is as positive as possible, and in order to illustrate all academics who will have to submit to this rigor, as well as all research workers of the Polish Academy of Sciences. I hope that, due to this good climate, this more radical version will be adopted and we will not have to go back to this topic. It's better to lock up than leave the door half open. And the scientific community, both academically and researchly, I hope, will take it with gratitude, precisely because a certain subject will be closed once and for all. So much for the amendments I'm about to pass on. Previously, I tabled another amendment, which concerned equal treatment on remuneration of representatives of research institutions, as well as teaching staff working at the Polish Academy of Sciences and academics of universities. I am not going back to this topic now, although it is, of course, related to budgetary issues. I asked a question about the planned budget for 2019, at least in the opinion of the Ministry, because I am aware that the adoption of this amendment, which I have tabled and which concerns the Polish Academy of Sciences, also has a service role in relation to the next year's budget and the battle for the same budget. I hope that if we adopt this law in the version that I propose at this point, we will have a sufficient instrument for the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to receive a pool of money of at least PLN 100 million. I'm not saying that, of course, we're counting on more. I hope I can say this on behalf of the entire scientific community. I would like to repeat the canonical sentence, which often falls among the Senators of Law and Justice. It is a law of all means necessary and important, but it has a certain quality I don't want to call it a flaw right now. - which causes such far-reaching nervousness in Parliament accompanying the implementation of this law. It's a trait that we define straight. There is no one today who can fully predict what this law will have to do. But this is not an expression of some legislative weakness, of course, that has happened to all of us here. But an expression of awareness that goals and intentions may prove to be a weak argument in relation to what will become in practice in this matter very complicated, requiring deep respect, maintaining far-reaching autonomy, and thus preserving such spaces where there is no direct impact of the ministry on the world of science. And luckily, of course, it doesn't have that effect. We will see what this law will bear in practice. For my part, I would like to say and declare that I will be mindful of a few issues. First of all, I'm definitely gonna watch. I hope you and Senator Kleina, who spoke about this in public. The issue of the condition of the so-called. regional universities. Of course, we understand that it doesn't have to be related only to Senator Klein. I, too, as a historian, am aware that our generation, politicians today who hold this mandate, has certain obligations. One of these commitments is to ensure that the western and northern lands are maintained in Poland. We cannot afford Polish intelligence to be weak there. There, the forming Polish intelligence is to be a strong social group, which can function there on the spot, and should not be washed out, to go outside its regions. The welfare of Poland requires that the best possible universities are located in the western and northern lands. I'm gonna be rooting for Słupsk with Senator Kleina, so that the university will have the best recovery capabilities. Unfortunately, I am aware that some of these universities may enter the degeneration stage, which will, of course, be against the founding of the law and may become an unwanted truth. The second section of such, I hope, of the far-reaching commitments of the Ministry, on which I would like it to become my joint responsibility, is Polish humanities, with particular emphasis on historical sciences. Without a doubt, I will try to monitor the functioning of this law in this context, so that Polish universities constitute a very clear space of the highest ceiling of world universities. And we really care about that. In particular, as a government that undertook an important mission to conduct Polish politics outside the world, so that these historical teachings would also be present in the world. I have no doubt that this is the intention of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, but at the same time it is necessary, without a doubt, also at the scientific level, at the academic level and also at the student level, to ensure that the development of humanities, with particular emphasis on history, is appropriate. Because it is again our generation's responsibility that we become more and more a national community that regains national identity and awareness. For example, tomorrow we will celebrate celebrations related to the Volyn tragedy. There is no doubt that much has been done in recent years so that this part of the research theme will appear in history. She has already become to some extent our common good, but for how long in scientific historical research at all the crime of Volyn was unnoticed. I am fully aware that when it comes to, for example. About the research... I will address my ally again on this matter, Senator Kleina. Does there really exist at the level of the widely understood Polish science awareness, how important part of Poland's history is e.g. history of Polish Kashubians? With their specialties, e.g. The history of the Pomeranian Gryf. How many doctoral, habilitation jobs do you think Pomeranian Griffin would treat? We have a great deal of negligence in the creation of a national community as a certain good that emerges from regional research, which is insanely, insanely important. And again, see that there's some correlation and internal sense... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm almost done. There will be no good and the best level of regional universities if there is no possibility that these regional universities will feel the will of the whole of Poland, so that the achievements and history of this land will become a common and general good. So in these at least I will definitely monitor the ministry and therefore I will keep my hand on the pulse in order to possibly return to the topics next year if it turns out that they have not been properly understood and interpreted by those who are creating today's law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u207	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Żaryn has called my name several times in such a positive context. I thank him for that. Indeed, this issue, which he is talking about, is a matter of concern to me and to me, and very, very many people. So that these regional studies are maintained and conducted. Unfortunately, regional research You can't drive without science centers. If regional universities... Maybe we even call them wrong, because a university that is outside of a metropolitan centre doesn't have to be just a university of regional importance. She can be and should be a university of national importance or even wider. It's supposed to be easy to say, isn't it? Of course, this requires different actions. Also from parliament, government, local governments, etc., and first of all from the scientific community. To become scientific centres of such importance. During the first part of the debate, during questions to the rapporteur Mr Gowin also answered this question, and I pointed out that in many European countries, even our closest neighbours... If we look at Germany, we can see that there are very strong scientific centres, universities of even pan-European importance, located in small towns. And you can show a lot of these places. During the questions I gave an example of Giessen, where there is an excellent training centre for lawyers, of general German significance, and even wider. Such examples from Germany, from the United Kingdom, from the United States can be given very much. Unfortunately, we in Poland still think of the Eastern model and imagine that everything must happen in the center, in the capital, in Warsaw, that great things cannot be realized outside the capital. This is not just a PiS disease, although the PiS does so, with full premeditation and in a really harmful way on the occasion of many different kinds of laws. Those mistakes were made by the Platform, and before that... We lack such thinking that Poland is not only Warsaw, it is not only metropolises, but also smaller centres and these centres can be excellent scientific centres. If the Minister says today that higher education will also be conducted there, but, let's say, only at the professional level, it's not just This is also important, I do not deny it, but this element of science, research is the factor that makes the city, place, region strong; people, inhabitants, citizens, scientists come, argue, there are scientific conferences. If this is not the case, the university becomes a school teaching profession. I say: there is nothing wrong with this, but from the point of view of building the strength of the region, the strength of the city is far too little. It's basically... In practice, this leads to sucking out HR. Why would a well-known scientist come to a town like Słupsk, Koszalin, even Szczecin, if he can't have a discussion there, a scientific debate? Unfortunately, I am afraid that this law does not go into its details concerning scientific workers, all these procedures, etc., it is not the right subject for me, so I do not want to speak in these matters. In the long term, I am convinced that in the cases that I am calling for will lead to the degradation of smaller scientific centres and thus also of entire regions. Here it was mentioned earlier, Senator Żaryn mentioned this, how late, lost or abandoned regional studies are, here he gave an example of Kashub or Pomerania. Ladies and gentlemen, the oldest Pomeranian university and one of the oldest in this section Europe is not a university in Gdansk or in Szczecin, but a university in Greifswald, Gryfia. We only started building the University of Gdańsk after years, later the University of Szczeciński, which, although they are already strong centers, are still at a stage, in the scientific sense and in terms of a good international position, crawling. If we're gonna limit this kind of centers I give here an example of Szczecin or Gdansk, not to mention cities such as Słupsk or Koszalin. This will lead to such a situation that again in the case of science, humanities concerning Pomerania the main experts will not be Polish scientists, but scientists from Berlin, from Greifswald, from Rügen, from Rostok, I do not know where else, because simply there these fields of science are supported. I think this is a really big threat, and I think we should do it... You, as the PiS, have given up your decision to reform the science of Minister Gowin. After all, we, the Civic Platform, know him well, he was a minister in our government and he was introducing a judicial reform. [[The liquidation of the courts.]] It was just as reckless reform. We had trouble with it, we had to get out of it. You guys haven't learned anything from this. I'm not saying... It is possible that some courts had to be removed, even I could agree with that, but then the cities had to be offered a different solution, even within the same structure. Since we're closing the Bytov courthouse, we're saying there's gonna be a prosecution here for two counties. But not: in one city everything is eliminated, and in another it is created. It's just thoughtless politics. I'm afraid it's a copy, the same thing that you didn't notice that you guys didn't sense it could lead to the same effects. Only that in the case of courts it is relatively easy to withdraw from this, sometimes mistakes made are difficult to reverse, even in the courts were some things difficult to restore, but relatively easier... But in the case of higher education, these are things. not to be withdrawn. Because if professors and scientists leave, they will settle in Gdansk, Warsaw or elsewhere, they will not return to Słupsk, Koszalin or even Szczecin. And that's the problem. I don't think you're quite aware of this as the state that's running the PiS today. There is still such a desire, such a tendency in Poland that every narrow piece of the matter is dealt with by him, he thinks that he saves Poland, but he does not see, he does not see that this change can have consequences. somewhere else, somewhere else. It is a disease of Poland after 1989. Former governments that understood and managed to solve this problem better This was the case during the rule of the AWS and the Freedom Union. It was not ideal, for God's sake, I do not idealize this period, but there was at least a feeling that Poland needed to be seen from a regional perspective. And there were trials, there were actions, and it was successful to recreate things, build things, etc. Now the state as a PiS is using rhetoric about sustainable development, thinking about extra-metropolitan areas, but unfortunately the practice of action is exactly the opposite. Maybe it was better not to talk about it, but to do something good. Such examples can be multiplied on various occasions. I would like you to try to think about it again, think about it and go back where it is still possible. Because if funds are distributed in this way, as proposed, the position of universities, scientific centres will be preserved for decades and it will be difficult to build a university from a real event, e.g. in Opole. I'm sorry to mention Opole, which has a good university, but it will. Right? Because if he is supported by Wrocław or Warsaw... Even if they want to do miracles, they can't handle it. And that's the problem, and that's why this bill is so harmful, dangerous. It is precisely these elements relating to regional development. Unfortunately, it will lead to the fact that the staff, elites will be sucked out of these extra-metropolitan centers. [[And the youth.]] And young people at the learning stage will decide to move out of smaller centres. They will wonder why they should live in Slupsk. Right? Here's the Pomeranian Academy, but since they're demoting her, I'm going, if I have the chance, to go to the university in Gdansk... But he doesn't fit in this category either, so you have to go to Warsaw. And then there will be a thought: why should I go from Słupsk to Warsaw, since I might as well go to college in Berlin, to Giessen, to Heidelberg, to Oxford or anywhere else. Because they see that they are treated as people of a worse category. And that's the danger. I think we're all missing that kind of reflection. You, because today you are responsible for Poland as the ruler, but also for us. We're paying attention, but maybe we're not doing enough. I still, with stubbornness worthy of a better case on various occasions talk about it, but usually this dispute I lose and I am voted out. Then some people ask: Why did he do it? But I have an advantage today, because a few years ago I was laughed at, that way of thinking, and today I see that they just don't listen. It's already a big change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u209	Thank you. Mr. Senator. We've been listening to you. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. We'll listen, too. [[Say something good about Kashubs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Klein wants me to say something good about Kashubs. So what I want to say is that I spend a lot of time on the hospitable Kashubian land and I value the activities of the Kashubian Society, at which I had the opportunity to be a few months ago. And, on the subject of our debate, I would like to begin by talking a little bit with Prime Minister Gowin in the context of this example concerning Dr Henry Kissinger. He was undoubtedly a person caught up in universities as a prominent political expert, political scientist and political analyst. I would like to point out that in the U.S. system, a doctor's degree makes it possible to become a professor and be a professor. There is no habilitation there, and therefore I believe that this example was not entirely hit. There's another system, there's some other criteria. The Ph.D. is more demanding than our PhDs, because we still have habilitation as this element, which makes it considered that the student of science can already conduct fully independent research. Here we get a degree of doctor-habilitated, and in America there is only a doctorate, and that was not, I would say, the best example to illustrate the answer to the question I asked. High Izbo, during this debate, I tried to be a bit of a spokesperson for the humanities. I represent humanities and I would like to say that I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's answers to the questions that were raised during this debate. I would like to point out that there are several planes here. The first level is that humanistic sciences have been in the past and are currently subject to particular ideology. We remember the period of the Polish People's Republic, we remember what the introduction of Marxist methods or Marxist dialects in history was all about. To simplify, I will say that the fate of individual people has not been studied, but historical processes have been studied, so some transformations, social transformations, economic transformations based on the development of some area. Well, it was a Marxist method of research, which, let's say, had accents. This also translated into sociology, sociology and a whole range of other humanities. Just because communism is over doesn't mean that the era of ideology is over, because humanities have different new ideologies, often referring to neomarksism, the new left or whatever we call it. It is not the time and place for a wider debate on this subject, but these ideologies are heading research into humanities. It is no secret that certain thematic areas are particularly rewarded, e.g. The role of women, feminism in history or today, as well as all issues related to equality policy, with discrimination. These are the areas, let's call it politically sensitive, which translate in a special way later into research and the granting of various proposals, grants in this area. As has already been said in the course of the discussion, we have in Poland a whole range of areas in the field of humanities, which after the period of the Polish People's Republic require special research. Well, it's a question of regionalistics, and regionalistics was pretty narrowed down in the period of the Polish People's Republic, for various reasons. It is a question of building the identity of small homelands. It was all somehow homogeneous by the PRL system, communist system or whatever we call it. And that's why these studies are particularly important. The question is whether these studies will be on the international market in such a way as to be accepted for publication in reputable foreign magazines. I say this as a man whose master's work was published in one of the world's most prestigious magazines on this field that I was dealing with. And then I dealt with the history of photography and wrote a master's paper about the beginnings of Polish political photography. This work of mine went perfectly into American research because it was a period of interest in the Civil War in the United States and the use of photography for political propaganda purposes in the technological realities of the time. Well, it's known that the photograph had some technical limitations, which no longer exist today. And this work was published, but, with all due respect, if I were to write a paper on the development of portrait photography in Krakow in the age of Galician autonomy, if I wanted to write more about Ignacy Krieger, an outstanding photographer who had his workshop on Krupnicza Street, or about this kind of... This would be a standard work that would no longer find interest in this quarterly magazine, in which I published my master's thesis, and this was the history of Photography, one of the most important quarterlys printed in the United States. So that's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm talking about. That's why I asked the Prime Minister about these Polish magazines in particular and why we should call this certification a bad word. The quality of the works that arise, however, in some way balance and also give a chance to Polish scientific titles, which would also be able to return. Well, we know what the situation is in this area. The second point that I would like to draw attention to is the question, in general, of illustriousness. Well, High Izbo, there was a professor of psychology, a guru of behavioral psychology at the Jagiellonian University in Krakow. I'm not gonna mention his name, he's a dead person today. He had a huge job, the whole school was, a lot of clinical and nonclinical psychologists came out of his hands. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that he was a consultant to the Citizen's Police Headquarters and played a key role in the socio-technical proceedings of Grzegorz Przemek. I think the Prime Minister knows who I'm talking about. We're not gonna name names, I mean an example. Well, he gave the grounds for a socio-technical game to shift responsibility for the murder of Grzegorz Przemek to, allegedly, paramedics who carried the beaten Grzegorz Przemek. I am talking about this because it is a significant example, because it was a luminary of Polish science, with undoubtedly scientific achievements, with undoubted scientific achievements. And I am not saying that such characters work at Polish universities today, but I think this problem It's pretty embarrassing, in all, for the environment or overlooked by a certain omert, that you don't talk about it. However, it requires some debate. I do not want to mention German solutions here, but in Germany, for example. Those who have worked with Stasi or with the enerdian special services in any way may not work on state-owned. I stress: state universities in Germany. They can work, yes, but at private universities, so they don't have closed opportunities to earn, to run science. Often they are people with scientific achievements. I absolutely don't want to deny it. And now, with the conclusion... It seems to me, Prime Minister, that it is a matter of consultation with the Polish humanists' community, because a very wide palette of outstanding Polish researchers It can be said so colloquially: from the right to the left she simply expressed some of her concerns about it... And I think that your method of conducting dialogue with these environments, talking, showing, convincing, justifying her rations is a very good method, and I would like to thank you for that, in the form of not confrontation, but trying to seek dialogue to calm these environments... But really, the effects of this bill and this... this is in my opinion a leap into the deep water. This is a big change from what was, it's a big change from what everyone got used to in some sense. Well, that's because it just happened anyway. But as far as the final outcome is concerned, I'm guessing that's what we're We'll be monitoring this case. Here one of the senators' voices was that there is no perfect law, which once passed for ever and ever will be closed. Perhaps the laws will require some kind of correction or some sort of further solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u211	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Senate! My speech will to a large extent relate to the justification for the several amendments I have tabled. At the same time, I would like to say immediately that some of the amendments I tabled yesterday at the committee meeting did not come forward today because I accepted the Prime Minister's argument. Some of the amendments have been amended and I have added new amendments, partly in connection with the debate and the Prime Minister's answers to the questions. I'll start with general business. Everyone stresses that the benefits of the work on this law were long and broad consultations. I have the impression that this was actually bad for this law, because too long negotiations, too long consultations caused that parts of the environment were stuck in memory of not this version of the law that we are currently dealing with, just some earlier versions of it. Hence, there were flawed interpretations, flawed, wrong opinions, and the debates concerned only part of the solutions, not the whole law. He was, for example. the moment when the whole discussion actually focused on the liquidation of the departments and the role and composition of the council, and yet the law doesn't eliminate the departments, it just doesn't use the word... Now it uses, but in this original version there was simply no word of the department. And that didn't mean you were winding up the departments. The same applies to the advice that has evolved. By the way, I'm a skeptic. on the positive role of the council that the Prime Minister was talking about, that it would be a transmission belt. In universities that wanted it, such bodies have existed for a long time, because universities wanted to have contact with employers, with the local market, with local government to know if they were working well. They were consulted and studies programs, and courses of university development, and university strategies. So in good universities it exists. But the introduction of such a solution at the law level can lead to pathology. I've seen pathologies like this. during work in the Polish Accreditation Board, when this provision was introduced that the university should have a strategy. Each university had a strategy, a strategy, which in 3/4 was a strategy bought from some company that wrote strategies. There was such a pathology that even the games of college were bought, on the basis that: because you have to have a study program, a company was established that writes study programs. And one of the reviewers from the Polish Accreditation Board came across a program of studies that was different from his own program of studies, which went through the accreditation committee, only with names of people, and the rest, even with punctuation errors, was exactly the same. At that time we consulted lawyers whether it was right or wrong, because on the one hand this program was adopted by an accreditation committee, which was good, but on the other hand buying someone else's program meant that there was no concept of education. And on the third hand, as if the use of good practices can be assessed positively. So it was a pretty ambiguous situation, but it was precisely because the legislator ordered something from the university. And the university, to show that it's legal, she had this thing... That's why I'm a skeptic. on the effectiveness of the advice, the more that the council will be called by the senates, and the senates will draw up such advice as will be concerted, because it is hard to imagine that the senate will call a council that will criticize it. I would add that the reforms of the School of Economics, which the Prime Minister was talking about in part, were made when there was no law, at the beginning of the 1990s, so the regulations as if they did not prohibit structural changes, and in fact the regulations did not require the existence of departments. The problem is that we are using certain words that, in terms of understanding, have some meaning, and may be that each of the participants in the debate de facto has their own definitions, so there may be problems in understanding the arguments. What really bothered me in yesterday's discussion at the committee meeting was that, in fact, there was talk about the fact that an amendment was already being made. So the bill is not yet passed by the Senate, it is not signed by the President, and we are already talking about the need to collect amendments that will be adopted as soon as possible. Maybe we're working too fast on this bill after all. Although I think the adoption of the amendments now gives the Sejm a chance to comment on them in July, so... I did not like this statement in yesterday's discussion at the committee meeting so as not to make any amendments, because this law must enter into force on 1 October. With the amendments that are proposed, the law can still enter into force on 1 October, there are no legislative obstacles here. From the substantive things that bother me, although in the first case I do not propose an amendment... The Act states that if the university acquires a scientific category that results in a change in the name of the university, it may remain with the old name. As far as it is reasonably obvious in the case of public universities, because the name of the public university is given by law, so it must be amended by law... But a change in the name of a non-public university is decided by the authorities of this university or the owner. And it looks so weird that... let's just assume that a non-public academy is losing academic authority in terms of getting a low grade of science. She'll still be called the academy, even though she doesn't deserve it. I'm sure it'll be confusing for college candidates. They'll think they're going to the academy because that's the name of the university, while this university doesn't really deserve that name anymore. This is not a good solution. Today, the Prime Minister used the term "university autonomy" very often. Yesterday, the issue of this autonomy came up on the occasion of my first amendment, which, incidentally, the committee accepted. This amendment aimed at adding, in the requirements concerning the rector of a non-public university, that he should have at least a doctor's degree. According to the provision which is in the Act at the moment, the head of a non-public university may be a person with a professional degree in bachelorship. It is certainly not going to create a good academic position for such a university that a person with a lower degree of professional title has such an academic function. The Commission accepted this amendment, although the Prime Minister's recommendation was negative and the argument was this autonomy. I will only point out that this is the autonomy of the founder of the university, not the university, because in this case the founder is appointed by the rector. Only further is it said that it can be a Senate or it can be used some other mode. Usually, the head of a non-public university is appointed by the founder, so that would be the founder's autonomy, and in fact there is a lack of autonomy here... This argument about autonomy was missing on the occasion of the next amendment which I proposed, namely the abolition of the age limit for the rector. It is not a question of abolishing the limit at all, and I wanted to move this limit, indicating that in the same law the upper limit of age for members of the Scientific Excellence Council, the Polish Accreditation Committee, the Scientific Evaluation Committee and members of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education were set at a higher level than for the rector. Well, here wasn't an argument about university autonomy, it wasn't said that if the university wanted an experienced rector, it could choose him. I therefore support this amendment. Further amendments which were not accepted by the committee concerned representativeness in the Senate. The provisions of this law say that in the Senate, independent and administrative workers are to be represented, but it appears from the wording of the provision that this can only be a representation of one of these groups. I therefore propose that each of these groups be represented by at least 1 representative. This applies to academic and professional universities. It's one amendment, but so to speak, separated. Age limitation in the case of the rector... In this law, a symmetrical solution is adopted in the case of members of the Senate, which means that there will be no persons in the university senate who deserve to be in the Scientific Excellence Council, in the accreditation committee, in the evaluation committee or in the Main Council of Science and Higher Education. I accepted the Prime Minister's argument made yesterday about the Minister's intervention in creating new courses of study, but with regard to public universities. It was a provision that says that if, at the date of the application for training, the Minister considers that this does not meet the socio-economic needs, the Minister may refuse. I'm just saying, through public school, because... [[Mr. Senator, if you have any more comments...]] Got it. [[...I'd be offering you an extra five minutes, 'cause time's running out.]] Then? Second time? Okay. [[Yeah, yeah. 'Cause you're not gonna make it...]] Well, I'm not gonna make it, because I'm only 1/3... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u213	Exactly. That's what we're saving for the senator's next speech, five minutes' notice. [[Okay.]] Senator Piotr Wach, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a very important bill, a significant change and it is difficult not to relate to it. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the Prime Minister for his presence here and for his patient response to a series of questions, although these answers were very mild and very idealistic, and this is not the case. However, the management of the system is the result of this law It's very strong in the Minister's hand, and I'm criticizing it. Well, the Minister, in this case Prime Minister Gowin, with the best intentions and actually being the author and inventor of the bill, will correct and interpret it in such a way as to make his concept good. And it's probably gonna be okay, but it's not the right thing to do with legislation, it's the right thing to do. The minister's position here is too strong. It should depend less on his goodwill. Of course, the minister always has good will. That's what we're assuming. But it's about how he sees the whole system. This is one of the critical points. But before I move on to this criticism, I would like to say that the bill has certain advantages, positive qualities. It has to be emphasized. And bringing these 5 laws together is a valuable thing, and combining the budget portion is a valuable thing. In general, financial regulations are good. Well, here is the case of those employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences, but I accept that there is a will to handle this matter. This goes beyond the matter of the law, but this would have to be done, especially with regard to the employees of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. In turn, all the rest. And that's what I'm going to focus on. That doesn't mean there were no good elements. They are included in addition to those particularly emphasized as critical criticisms. First of all, there is too much authority of the Minister and, let's say, a great deal of discretion in terms of different decisions. In short, the Minister, the Prime Minister, holds the reins in his hand and can do so. almost everything he wants, in particular by means of a category. I think it's gonna be a lot of good, but it doesn't have to be, and the bill should provide it. Besides, the Rector's power is very large. In response, the Prime Minister spoke about the statute, that he regulates it, but the bill finally says that all the unit managers Whatever they're at the university. The Rector is appointed. And in a large part of the university will appoint them, and the statutes may not predict any elections. And they will not predict where they will simply not anticipate it. Therefore, the very clear support of the rectors, who of some of these elements of the bill are very happy, because they will not be disturbed by the various bodies that buzz and interfere with their management, also in such really good management. I'm criticizing it. The effects of categorization, this method of categorization are unpredictable, difficult to predict. They should be in the description of the effects of the regulation, because these are the most important regulations that are in this law. It's the most important thing. This is a regulation on categorisation and a number of issues related to it. Just to concentrate on one indicator. And it's a science meter. I'm sure it's not a bad thing. It's probably a good thing, but it's actually a deep-water jump. The consequences are unpredictable. Luckily, you hold the reins in your hand, the minister who, by driving that line up or down, can leave a couple of universities with or without rights. The Rectors are counting on it, Minister, at least some, so I've heard. Come on. Degradation of relatively good academic centres. I'm not going to develop it. The Minister himself said today that actually 18 centres meet the conditions and can compete in a competition for a research university. Whether it is much or little, it is difficult for me to say, but apart from them, with the current fragmentation of units in Poland... But it's possible to federalize, you say. Yeah, well, let's see what happens. But only ten will get funding, two will fall out... And these colleges are gonna move forward, and that's gonna go forward dramatically, because that's 10%. , at least 10% It's a lot. These are additional well-used resources that, once you've fired some of your staff, will give you opportunities. That's the truth. But there will also be a number of universities: from Gdańsk, from Silesia, from Lublin, etc., etc., we do not know which. And I can't imagine those maybe not 9 but 8 or 7 mentioned... so that those of the top major metropolis don't enter... And that's how it's gonna be. Furthermore, I would criticise the fact that the Act contains little pro-quality elements. They are. There are efforts here, important efforts. This is actually a very difficult area. I'd only add one solution here. But this is currently impossible to carry out that could improve quality. In my opinion, our problem in the higher education and science system is simply, first, the lack of reliable reviews, distance, or malicious, or, let's say, co-workers. Because we mostly... maybe not mostly, we often fall into extremes, and either these are reviews so malicious and very annoying, excessive, or such for the sake of peace. There isn't an important measure here that should dominate, there are no such reviews from a distance, reasonable. Legislative activity in this area is difficult, but it is possible... i.e. legislatively, this is difficult to do. Second thing. In fact, when it comes to the quality of study and students, there's almost nothing. Improvements may be in the field of doctoral studies. Such qualitative elements in science are the increase in the number of reviewers: 3, 4, 5. Yeah, but it's a dubious center. As far as students are concerned, the law should require universities to have external examinations for a number of key subjects. This is a solution that brings fantastic results wherever it is introduced. Of course, the introduction of this solution costs, delaying the announcement of results from 4 to 10 weeks, but it is effective. Actually, I don't want to dwell on this criticism. With regard to what I would like to criticise most, I propose amendments. There's a lot of them. I'll start introducing them. I'll introduce them very quickly, but not all of them, because I repeat a few amendments after the Seym. These are the amendments rejected. But not all of them. I don't think there's much to discuss. I'll give you the ones that are close to my heart, i.e. The ones I think are important. As far as the Parliamentary amendments are concerned, I have been involved in the development of a significant part of them, so that I am also associated with them. I am adding a few more amendments that have not received much support even in our environment. One amendment concerns the definition of requirements for a university professor. As far as university is concerned, it is to be a person at the level of a doctor-habilitated, and as far as a professional university is concerned, it may be a doctor with defined, I would say, achievements. Come on. This is about the possibility of extending doctoral leave to six months. It was in the Seym too. Here's the definition that actually comes from me, too, about the PhD... There is written general theoretical knowledge, so the doctoral student is required... I would delete the term "theoretical," really. It wasn't that long ago that we introduced a PhD in implementation. Well, what makes sense is that general theoretical knowledge, as we have separately prepared an amendment, not so long ago, which the Prime Minister proposed, concerning the implementation doctorate, and we agreed. Now, there's a little thing about doing a doctoral job: accepting a promoter or promoter, not an opinion. After all, the promoter won't write that the job is bad, that he doesn't like it, that's what he likes. He presents the guest and says, "I let him go." He gives acceptance, that's all. There are reviewers from the review, not the promoter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u215	Mr. Senator, time. I see you have quite a few corrections. [[Please. Yeah, I'll talk to you for a second. Please kindly save me for the next round. Thank you.]] Good. Please. Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to start by actually reminding you what the main objectives of this reform were. It was primarily about making better use of the scientific potential, which lies in Polish scientists, in Polish institutions, using this potential also by opening up to better cooperation with the external environment. The second thing is to create better conditions for young scientists, a system of incentives for young, capable people to think, to think about whether or not to go on the path of scientific careers, and also to create better conditions for PhD students. The third element began with this, then the Prime Minister invited me to cooperate with the Ministry. It is the idea of rebureaucratizing, reducing bureaucratic ballast, which affects the whole system of higher education and to some extent also science. Finally, increasing funding mainly for science and to some extent for higher education. Now from a perspective of 2.5 years, I must say that we certainly have a feeling of unsatisfiedness when it comes to achieving these goals. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, this disease, unfortunately, is a little deeper than we thought at first. The source of bureaucracy today is not so much or just the ministry, the regulations. Unfortunately, over the past two decades, a certain way of bureaucratic thinking has taken root very strongly in the academic community. This is a big problem, which is why this bill will not eradicate this phenomenon that has taken root in the academic space. It's a little better because there's less of these acts, it's been mentioned, so maybe there's going to be a breakthrough, because the direction, the trend is changing. The trend is changing, but this bill, unfortunately, is not going to lead to a breakthrough. So far, bureaucratic culture has dominated and I think it will continue to dominate what we call academic ethos. There is also no breakthrough in this law when it comes to increasing funding. Surely a good step that has been taken is to improve the conditions for young scientists, especially for PhD students. On the occasion of this law, there were certain points of dispute or inflammation. Many have been mentioned here, but I will focus on one thing, because it is very significant to me personally, but it is also very significant to the academic community. I mean the dispute over the position of regional universities and the relationship between leading and smaller centres. Even if Senator Klein speaks beautifully today, with great concern about regional centers, but in my deepest conviction such voices are the result of some horrendous misunderstanding. And the analogy that Senator Klein presented here, saying that Prime Minister Gowin had once removed courts in smaller towns, and now he has ambitions to eliminate universities in smaller centres, is in my view some horrendous misunderstanding, because from the very beginning we have been concerned about not squandering the achievements of the last 2 or even 3 decades. This achievement is precisely a huge increase in the importance and prestige of smaller academic centres, such as the Rzeszów. What happened in Rzeszów and in several other centres in the last quarter of the century is a reason for extraordinary satisfaction, it is also a great achievement of Polish science. And this law gives in my opinion the tools to make this work and protect, and develop. This, of course, requires the enormous work of these environments. This is not about preserving the current state, but in a sense about showing new challenges and mobilization, providing impulses for greater activity. Well, there's some, uh, completely incomprehensible to me... I don't want to use any wrong words here, but in these centres there is some depressing fear that someone is trying to take away from us something that we have so hard to gain, regardless of the declarations, from the changes that have been introduced in the law, from the mitigation of the impact of these qualitative factors on funding. In fact, whatever we do, it's a belief based on such fear, anxiety persists. I hope that after the law comes into force, this will change, that these environments will simply get to work and then they will find that they have all the tools to make their prestige and their position confirm in the new reality. Well, I'm pretty sure about that. I hope that's how it's gonna be. So in this sense, this law gives rise to some moderate optimism. This bill gives tools and some triggering impulses, but it doesn't solve problems. A paradox related to the criticism of this law is that the problems of today's academic life, the current position of smaller centres, the current difficulties in accessing grant programmes... Well, today's situation is that a few major universities or individuals get about 90% funds served by the National Science Centre or the National Research and Development Centre. So these scissors already exist today, and this law certainly does not make the situation of these smaller centres worse. In my opinion, it gives them some developmental opportunities. But I would like to point out: the odds. So it launches a process that will... Well, there should be mobilization to effort in these smaller centers, but actually even bigger and more difficult task awaits these best, leading centers. The Prime Minister was talking about it. These excellence programmes are not a state-of-the-art bonus, that is, a bonus for presenting a development programme that will increase the position of these universities in international competition. So you can run as if from a lower ceiling, present a better development program and be rewarded with winning this particular programme of scientific excellence. There are a lot of misunderstandings here, but this law is launching a process and I am convinced that this process will serve Polish science, but provided that all of this is taken advantage of, taking advantage of this autonomy, taking advantage of the opportunities that appear. As far as the impact is concerned, whether these plans, these expectations, those objectives that have been set, will be achieved and to what extent it is not possible to assess them in six months' time. In fact, the first evaluations will be in 3 or 4 years, in 2021 and even in 2024. So I was also a little concerned about what was bothering Senator Rocky, i.e. There are already plans to amend this act in the short term... Well, unless it's, possibly, the pay position of the Polish Academy of Sciences... But in general, I think we need patience and work here. And the impact assessment of this law is really a matter of several years or even many years. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u217	Thank you very much, Professor. You're welcome, Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I would like to make a few comments and assessments as practices, because it seems to me that certain issues need to be considered and considered in order to improve this law. First of all, I broadly agree with the proposals that you have made to Senator Rocki, especially with regard to the age limit set for the rector in the article. 20 in point... I am sorry, with regard to the members of the university council at point 7, but this point 7 is then a reference to the age limit in the case of the occupation of various other posts, in particular those relating to the management positions established by the rector and other bodies, except those which are compulsory listed in the Act and which may be established, in accordance with Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, in the statutes of the university, as he may predict other bodies of the university. And this 67-year-old limit also applies to these other positions, let's call them executives. It seems to me that this limit does not correspond to the age limit set for institutions that are equally important, even appointed as supervisory institutions. Namely, the limit set for members of the Scientific Evaluation Board and members of the Scientific Excellence Board is 70 years. Well, it seems a little inconsistent. Since those people who have, as I say, some kind of supervisory functions are 70 years old, I see no reason, there is no reason for them to set a limit of 67 years for the rest of the category, especially where, but just in the scientific work, the accumulation of existing work, knowledge and life experience is as useful as possible. And I really don't see any reason why this limit of 67 years of age should remain. Especially since Okay, I'll remind you. In respect of professors appointed to date, the current article. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2th Law on Higher Education provided for a limit of 70 years of age. I am also a lecturer of the position of scientific staff, with whom I have dealt with a lot because from 1980 until now I am, as a lawyer, an advisor to the works committee And indeed, academics, those with a lot of experience, with a lot of work to do. I would like to say that this also applies to such valuable practitioners as doctors who work in medical academy clinics, which is now part of the Jagiellonian University, express some concerns that there may be such a situation that there will be a shortage of top-class doctors, professors who will be deprived of these managerial functions and may therefore give up their work at all. And they will find this work freely in the West of Europe, with a salary of often, well, multiples of what they receive in Poland. Therefore, I believe that, for a certain order, that this should be decided uniformly on a particular category of persons, and for the principle of fairness, this age limit will rightly be raised to 70 years. That's why I'm proposing an amendment that I'm about to pass on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth considering the issue that Senator Rocki was talking about, the requirement to have a doctor's degree, that this requirement should be laid down uniformly, not only for public universities, but also for private universities. Well, because from the point of view of social acceptance... People treat the rector of the university as someone who already has a fairly high educational census, and is not just a master. Well, that's the general reception. In this connection, sometimes even the reaction of laughter results in a statement that someone is the rector of the university, being merely a master. I think that's probably not the point, and we should break up with what we used to deal with in history when we used to have pre-March and post-March pennies, and we definitely appreciated the pre-March ones more. Well, similarly with universities, if universities are to be taken seriously, if they are to educate young people, carry out research, this matter needs to be resolved, it seems to me, in a uniform way and for public universities, and for non-states. Hence this request that, however, the requirement to have a doctor's degree in the case of the rector of the university should exist. In fact, that's all I have in nature, you could say, almost technically, but it seems to me, very important for the image and for the functioning of the university. Thank you very much. And I'm making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u219	I understand, okay. Mr. Senator Rocki. Please, Mr. Senator, five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the discussion, Minister Bobko spoke about the re-bureaucratisation that was the subject of our debates several months ago. When this law was introduced, I argued that the abolition of the institutional evaluation, which was one of the activities of the Polish Accreditation Commission, would work quite the opposite, because it would increase the number of evaluations that universities would have to pass through programme evaluations instead of one institutional one. As I can see, after a dozen months my arguments have probably worked indirectly, because in the bill we have restored institutional evaluation, only under a different name: comprehensive evaluation. It's a pleasure that universities will have less... although that's when I pointed out that it actually works the opposite way, it's going to be a higher level of bureaucracy. In the course of answering my question about doctoral schools, the Prime Minister spoke about the fact that consultations took place at various universities. Certainly not everyone, because I don't remember those questions getting to me. And the example of the University of Warsaw is not suitable for me, because it is a university that has many disciplines. And if there's a university like all economic universities that have the power to doctorate multiple times in the same discipline... Because if there are five departments, each of which has financial authority, each of which has the right to economics, it does not result from the fact that this is some kind of devaluation, but from the fact that when economists are gathered different views, different economic schools, and the existence of these schools gives a chance to introduce doctoral schools with different profiles. That's why I made a pretty fresh amendment to change the number 3 into the number 5. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I would just like to say briefly about the amendments that I tabled yesterday and which did not gain acceptance, namely above all amendments extending the deadlines for the Polish Accreditation Commission to deliver various kinds of opinions which must be drafted fairly and therefore require time. Especially in the case of re-examination of the case, the shortening of the time compared to the original time cannot work well, because when the Polish Accreditation Board re-examines the case, it is necessary to review all the documentation that was initially examined and additional documents which the university sent later, by appeal. Therefore, time cannot be shortened, it should be extended. I propose to keep it as it is for the original examination, because I also understand that all stakeholders are waiting for a decision. In the case of evaluation of doctoral schools, I reiterate my request for support for an amendment which would give the Scientific Evaluation Committee similar powers as the Accreditation Committee on the processing of personal data and requesting clarification. Without these provisions, the Scientific Evaluation Committee will not have such powers, which will certainly not affect the efficiency of its operation, and may even prevent it, and if the Committee did so, it may end in such judicial matters as the Polish Accreditation Board experienced until these rules were in place. These provisions were made in some kind of amendment, before they were not. I also propose to consider an amendment on the abolition of the monopoly of the Bank of National Farms for the service of universities. Such a monopoly is not conducive to the financial economy of universities, and it will certainly make it difficult to obtain loans that are important for universities in particular in the case of investment processes. I think these are all the amendments I wanted to talk about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u221	Senator Stanisławek. There you go. Ten minutes, first appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! This is an important law for which the environment has waited a long time, a comprehensive law which replaces 4 other laws, long-term, consulted. She gained the support of all academic bodies, various conferences of rectors, the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland and student local governments. The aim of this law is very important, and these 211 pages concern improving the autonomy of universities, halting researchers' trips, improving the quality of teaching and scientific results in international competition, increasing financial expenditure or faster promotion of young researchers. We can continue to discuss and look for ways to improve this law. Each senator will surely find some points in this law, which, he believes, can be improved in the well understood interest of Polish science. The Prime Minister said the bill would be monitored. That's a valuable point, Prime Minister. We thank you very much for this because only continuous monitoring of the quality of the law in relation to its objectives can contribute to the improvement of this law in the coming years. I, ladies and gentlemen, am applying for the bill without amendment, otherwise... Otherwise, we really will not pass this law, and every subsequent amendment makes the law less and less readable. I therefore ask the High House to support my proposal and to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u223	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is my second speech. Maybe I'll start by discussing some of the amendments I'd like to talk about. And I'm putting them together a little bit more. And then, finally, there'll be two more general remarks. I repeat the amendment that the review of the doctoral examination is made in Polish or English. This is a pro-quality amendment. Because the language is not defined in the original law, it is obviously understood that it is Polish. But this amendment will make it much easier to have a review abroad. However, there is no need to open up a pool of languages in this area if you agree with this request. What we're talking about here could be done, and that would be a pro-quality step. An amendment that... It is difficult to count on support here, but I believe that this amendment is important and needs to be articulated. It comes from young researchers and I fully agree with it. The point is that the promoter of the hearing may be a person with at least a doctoral degree and employed in a given entity as an assistant, professor or equivalent. So, in short, to... to admit leadership, to promote a body that would open... Well, it's a statutory body that would decide that: Senate, council, someone else. And a doctor with a job should be a promoter, but not a reviewer. Therefore, the following would be added: the reviewer may be a person with a degree of a doctor's degree or a professor's degree. For the review, it's absolutely... There's no driving... The appropriate doctor, at least as an assistant, may and should be a valuable complement to what is being done in this regard. By the way, it must be said that doctors who, in accordance with the end of the law, were sometimes granted the status of ancillary promoters, this obligation, or co-responsibilities, were largely affected. And they answered it... Another amendment, which has not occurred anywhere so far and which has a lot of support in the roundabout discussions among colleagues, and there is virtually no formal support for any of them, I must say, even among my colleagues, among whom I have tried to push it through. It concerns I want to add my lips here. 3 is replaced by the following: the applicant may not be employed in a habilitation entity. In short, you wouldn't be able to do habilitation at your university. This is definitely a pro-quality amendment. This is an amendment that our miserable state of mobility improves a bit. And that's a fair amendment. Habitating powers will lose a lot of provincial units. There's no illusions about it, and no one's denying it. It loses a little less units than originally assumed, because category B+ currently maintains habilitating rights. But most of the habilitation units in the provinces will lose them. All these people in the province will go to big universities, big and big universities to do habilitation. Then let's also let these people from big, big universities not do it at home, but at a neighbor's or a distant neighbor's. It improves quality. It improves mobility. My colleagues were quite clearly against it and said: it is very, very honest with us, no one supports anyone. And they were so against it that I'm sure it's the right amendment. But I don't believe in her passage. But I want to say this very clearly. Come on. I propose an amendment, which I also believe is right, so I am replacing it. The point is, in case the professor's motion fails... In order to make the words "5 years," the point is that the application can be re-submitted after 5 years "replaced for "3 years." Five years is a long time. They make these conclusions to us quite young people. Really, three years is enough. Well, there's not gonna be a lot of maniacs who repeat every three years infinity... five years is a long time and that should change. And the last amendment I want to mention is that in the first competition of excellence, including the research university, open a pool for 15 universities. You have a minister of 18 of them. That's how I understood today. Which they could even claim. Actually, the first time, let almost all of them get it... So much for the amendments. I have one more amendment, completely fresh. She's not that hot, but she's changing a little bit of art. 219 in terms of what is considered to be a habilitation acquis. In lithium. b Article Annex II is amended as follows: The 1st point 2 is: the 1st cycle of thematically related scientific articles. Instead, I think it should be a young worker's request. A collection of scientific articles published in scientific journals or reviewed in materials from international conferences in which the applicant for the degree of a habilitated doctor had an exclusive or leading contribution, etc., according to the Minister's census. This is a much better solution, more demanding and fairer. Those are the corrections. I didn't name them all because I repeat More of these Seyms... But, as I understand it, their reception is not necessary. Besides, it's not... However, I pay particular attention to those that I have mentioned, because I think that they would improve quality and actually some would be much fairer. Mrs. Marshal, I'm handing this over, but I'd like to end up with a few sentences. I have no delusions that smaller centers will have major difficulties in gaining... That's a little bit of an answer for you, Professor Bobka, who's gonna come forward and maybe deny it, and maybe he's gonna start this discussion. That's what these centers are all about. [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...the smaller ones don't stand a chance of high categories. It's a good thing it's left on B+, that with B+ there's a majority, actually almost all the rights except for competitions, because there's no chance of that. If you aggregate discipline... In my case and Mr Wind's case, this proposal is 4:1 in strong disciplines. If the university... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...presents a minimum of 12 people, usually presents more, and if each of these disciplines at large at the moment has a separate department, then how do you combine it, will put out 20, 15 or at least 12 good ones, then no one has a chance to compete with it. Nobody. It's standardized. Nobody. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] But yet, if you don't mind me saying so much: I have no delusions that all these amendments, so nicely discussed here, will not be accepted because the Minister said that he considers the wording of the present law to be optimal. So I consider it my duty to say what I was about to report, but I have no delusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u225	Thank you very much. And again, Senator Bobko. Five minutes, Mr. Senator. [[Shorter.]] It's gonna be a little bit shorter. Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first part, I was speaking in general, and now I would like to make an amendment which is somewhat contrary to what my previous speaker, Mr Wach, said here. I'm convinced. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm looking at it too optimisticly, that this potential, which is in smaller centres today, will keep these centres at an appropriate level, and also, superior to categories, at least in a few disciplines and fewer... But these disciplines are gonna be a lot less. So... I mean. Maybe not so much, but I would like to make an additional amendment after thinking about it, considering it also as my duty, an amendment to the article. 218, which differentiates the conditions for obtaining doctoral and habilitation rights, because the combination of this, i.e. reducing to B+ the condition of obtaining habilitation rights, in my opinion, is an anti-quality solution and does not serve the system. A to regional universities serves short-termness at most in an apparent way. This is an apparent privilege for regional universities in my opinion. I therefore make an amendment on this matter, which I asked the Prime Minister during a series of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u227	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal, I don't have any illusions about those amendments that were tabled by the opposition either. They won't be accepted. Mr Gowin, of course, is a politician and wants to succeed in the end, and he wants to carry out this bill. He claimed he was involved... that this discussion lasted over two years... I also participated in this discussion in Gdansk, just at the University of Technology. So I understand he wants to succeed. He's a politician. I also understand that on the occasion of this law and this discussion and these meetings, many meetings, he also built his position, strengthened his position as a politician and head of Poland together within the framework of the PiS. I get it. And I understand, too, and I do not blame that on this occasion he expanded the environment of Poland together, expanded contacts, talked about possible candidates from his group as presidents of cities as well. This was the case, among others. in Gdansk. I don't blame you for that. And I wouldn't be entirely surprised, and even, I would say, I would be surprised if Prime Minister Gowin agreed to these amendments. I repeat, Prime Minister Gowin wants to succeed. I get it. But it is not, ladies and gentlemen, so that it will be irrelevant to the situation in places that we can call the outskirts of Poland. This law is of course very important for science. That is clear. But don't tell me it won't have a negative impact on universities outside a few major centres. These large centres are known as: Warsaw, Kraków, Wrocław, Poznań, maybe Lublin, maybe Białystok, maybe Gdańsk. But universities, in addition to doing research and education, are of such cultural, civilizational importance. We have some cities... one particular city, Toruń, which is small and basically functioning around the university. Well, there's another institution that was created 10 years ago, but it's not academic, and I think it's also cultural, and the university certainly does. I do not ask about the different places and the different universities. I understand that the Minister will make decisions. But the geography of those who benefit from this law is clear to me. The claim that no one gets out of funding... But somebody's coming. And so the difference will increase, the difference between stronger and weaker institutions, between stronger and weaker universities. I see that the main purpose of the bill is to try to break through and get higher in international rankings. It may be achieved, but I'm afraid the cost incurred by centers that won't break because they don't have a chance will be too much. Higher education institutions in Western Europe, as well as in the United States, did not create their position through government and ministerial decisions, through an additional stream of money from the budget. They worked for decades, and some, in Western Europe, even for hundreds of years. It was a natural process. Of course, there is a need for change in science and universities, but I do not know if a general change, the consequences of which we cannot fully predict Not only did the Platform Senators talk about this, but the PiS is also a change that we should support without comment and without amendment. In the end, I'm going to talk about humanities. Technical science can be said to measure with some quantitative measure, but humanities... Well, there's also a quantitative measure here, but of course it's very poor in terms of humanities. The number of publications may be one of the reasons, but not the most important. We are not in a position to translate qualitative measurements in humanities into mathematical patterns. If that were the case, the one who invented it would surely have received the Nobel Prize. Nobel's waiting for the scientist to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I asked for a voice at the very end of this debate, because listening very carefully to the questions, answers and discussions themselves, I thought that although science and higher education were not my domain It is worth noting, to notice the uniqueness of this law. Its uniqueness relates not only to a very important area that it regulates, but also to the fact that the way it is adopted is unique. For more than two years there was not so much consultation as joint work on the bill initiated by Prime Minister Gowin. In some events I had the opportunity to participate and I saw how much emotion she aroused in academic environments, as well as in other environments. This is extremely important. This consultation process or the process of working together resulted in the fact that the law in the version in which it was adopted by the Sejm is simply... On the one hand, she is carrying out the task of giving Polish science and schooling a new chance, and giving Poland the possibility of a certain promotion of civilization, which will certainly be spread over time, because it is not something that can cause changes from day to day. On the other hand, it is a very clear compromise of various ideas, different views. And it seems like we need to respect that today. There are, of course, questions, questions, which have also been raised here, in this Chamber, about the situation of regional universities, about humanities. I can't help not to add that from the point of view of Poland's development, regardless of all the good words that fell in terms of protection or support for humanities, humanities However, it is above all technical sciences, medical sciences, those which have some concrete application in the economic development of Poland, which require support. It's in these areas. Without prejudice to humanities We must give the opportunity to develop, the kind of development that will translate into economic development, to the various achievements that are far-reaching in terms of the development of the country. There are still questions that have also been raised here, questions about quality, whether it would be even better... if we could, for example, ask questions about quality. The march towards the finish line we were talking about, speed it up. This could probably be done, but there is again a kind of compromise between what is desirable and what is possible, respecting regional differences or differences between different scientific institutions or universities. Well, there's also the whole issue that's been discussed here many times, about how much government responsibility is to be held and how much autonomy is to be given to universities. In this respect, I think a reasonable compromise has been reached in the Act. I also think that we are all aware that the implementation of the intentions that can be read from this law will not be possible without additional resources for science and higher education. And that's what you have to say. The Prime Minister's call to support the pursuit of more resources in this area is certainly worthy of support. For me personally, it is also very important what has happened several times here, from this speaker, i.e. that the Ministry of Science provides for the process of monitoring this law. Because it is also extremely important that when you introduce such a complicated new regulation, you look at what results from this. There were voices here, too, that we can't really predict everything today, but one day we have to move on. And it seems that as far as this last aspect of the case is concerned, since some of the articles of the law or most of them should come into force since the new academic year, it is precisely the time that is important. Taking all this into account, while respecting the enormous work of many people who have led to this wise, reasonable compromise, one can say that correcting this bill in the Senate, and that is by adding various detailed solutions that may and do have their ratio, but there is no solid analysis behind them of the consequences of these ideas... I think we should save this for later. I personally believe that today we should adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Władysław Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: to the third point, Senators Martynowski, Sługocki, Rocki, Dowhan and Sługocki, Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Żaryn, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Piotr Wach and Senator Bobko, and to the third and fourth points. Senators Kazimierz Wind and Andrzej Stanisławek. The joint discussion is closed. Would the Prime Minister like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to take the floor very briefly, first of all, to thank the senators very warmly for the extremely substantive discussion, regardless of the critical voices that have been formulated here. I wish that Polish parliamentarianism would always have the same face as that expressed by today's debate. There is only one polemic remark on the voice, which I respect, in other words, the voice of Marshal Borusewicz. Well, Mr. Marshal has formulated a thesis which I do not believe reflects the reality that the most important objective of this law is to raise the position of Polish universities in world rankings. No. Raising their position is of course something desirable, but this is a side effect. The most important objective of the law is to improve the quality of education of Polish students and increase the level of scientific research so that in the humanities they build our identity more effectively, so that they build and develop our cultural, spiritual identity, and in the field of technical sciences, life sciences and science they are the basis for sustainable development of Poland and constitute a scientific contribution to the strategy of responsible development. It's true that we need research schools. Whether there are 10 or 15 or 5 of them, this is really what the future will be about, which is how the academic community will take advantage of this opportunity itself. If there are more universities that will take up this competition, this group of research universities will certainly be larger in the future. However, we also need such universities so that we do not lose, as is the case today, a large part of the young elites. I repeat once again: every year a large proportion of the most talented seniors, students go to study at foreign universities, at the best foreign universities And we lose them forever. Every year, a large proportion of young scientists go to these best universities in the world. And we lose them forever. In order to stop this dramatic flow of blood and talent to stop this brain drain, we need universities that will actually be at world level. The development of research universities must not be at the expense of other universities Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, However, I would not want us to take care of those other universities that play a very important cultural role in their regions, and also make an important contribution to the development of Polish science in many areas, so that we adopt solutions that will bring down the best ones in order to care for these universities. We really need to avoid the situation from such a Polish hellhole and thinking like: in the name of someone who is no better than me, let us make his life more difficult. Such a misunderstood mechanism of envy is lethal from the point of view of state development. Once again, I would like to thank the senators very much for this discussion and reiterate their request that you accept the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u233	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister. Since legislative proposals have been submitted to the Law on Higher Education and Science and to the Law on Higher Education and Science, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Senators, as announced earlier, we will now proceed to item 13 of the agenda and then to item 15, i.e. the law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. The text of the Act is contained in print No 890 and the report of the Commission In print No 890 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, during which the subject of the work was the Act on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. The Act was proceded in the Seym on 5 July 2018. This is the bill from the government's submission. Following the amendments, this law was adopted by the Sejm, it can be said, almost unanimously: 421 Members were in favour, 7 against, 4 abstentions. This law concerns only one commune, the rural commune of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. This municipality has about 2.5 thousand inhabitants, and its annual budget is about PLN 10 million. Why was a solution to abolish, to liquidate the municipality, because that is what this law is about? As the debt of the municipality is so great that no investment can be made, there are no financial perspectives and for many years it would not be possible to carry out economic development tasks or to carry out the basic tasks that the municipality should carry out. The debt at the end of 2016 was about PLN 38.5 million, which represents 360% planned revenue and by the end of 2017 the debt was almost 440% that income. Such a large debt simply does not allow for any activity. Hence the government's motion to liquidate the municipality. Why is this done in such a form and not in any other way? After all, we know that there are legal solutions that allow e.g. the connection of the municipality with the neighbouring municipality or with the neighbouring municipalities. There wouldn't be a solution, that bill... I mean. in this case, under the applicable law, there is no way to sort of cancel debts. The commune that would connect with this community would have to take over this commune, so to speak, with all its possessions, with debt, with everything. I'm sure no neighborhood would want to take over. Moreover, the current rules for the merger of municipalities provide some financial support, but this support is so small that even if such an operation were carried out, such support would in no way compensate... Hence this law, such a unit, concerning this municipality. This law has created the legal basis for the abolition of Ostrowice Municipality and its integration into the municipality, possibly to neighbouring municipalities without transferring the burden associated with the operation and repayment of the debt of Ostrowice Municipality to these municipalities. The second aspect is the determination of the municipality's liabilities and the determination of the procedure for the satisfaction of the eligible claims. And these two conditions are met by this law. Following the adoption of the law, the Council of Ministers will abolish the municipality of Ostrowice by means of a regulation. This Regulation will establish the boundaries of the new municipality, possibly municipalities, which will absorb the municipality of Ostrowice. The removal of the municipality of Ostrowice and the determination of the boundaries of the municipality or municipalities referred to here earlier will take place on 1 January 2019. As for some precise estimate of the costs of liquidation of the municipality, in detail and very precisely, it is impossible for today. There is only a provision that creditors will report their claims to the West Pomeranian voivodships within 3 months of the adoption of this law. And after that time, the claims that will not be filed will expire. And the development of these claims and their payment will take place on 1 January 2020. As far as committee proceedings are concerned, the Legislative Office has made some amendments, but they have not been accepted. The law was adopted unanimously by all members of the committee. Seven senators were in favor, no one was... Well, unanimously, seven senators were in favour. I therefore present this law to the High Senate on behalf of the committee of the local government and ask that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u235	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u236	Thank you very much. This is the municipality that's in my constituency... [[Senator, we can't hear you.]] And I turned it on... [[Voice from the room: But a little weak...]] [[And the card's in?]] There it is, there it is. And now? [[I do now.]] Oh, it's just that I turned to the Minister because I wanted to address these questions to the Minister... Did the meeting of the administrative committee mention the division of this municipality, i.e. Will there be a division between Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec? And are these municipalities Or this municipality, because it's mostly called Drawsk Pomorskie, they're going to get some funding because they're going to have new jobs? My senator's office received a statement and a position of the Councillors Złocieniec and Drawska Pomorski concerned about the lack of explanation of these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u237	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u238	Thank you very much. I think that this question will surely repeat itself in the course of asking questions to the Minister. For a long time there was no discussion on this subject, the bill was adopted unanimously, but later, after the committee meeting, I even wondered myself... There's a record in the mouth. 4 that this requires consultation from these municipalities or possibly municipalities... And I wonder what's gonna happen, for example. These municipalities will not agree to accept whether such a solution would be possible to take the zero option and to build and leave the municipality from the beginning. But I'm sure that's not an option. So I'm saying, I'm wondering... about the exact answer, I'm asking the Minister for backup. As I say, there will be a dilemma, because the municipalities may disagree. On the other hand, it is the fact that all debts take over the Treasury, and it is certainly a big handicap for those municipalities that will take over it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u239	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to ask why we are adopting a special law on the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice, if the creation, abolition of municipalities, division of municipalities is a decision Council of Ministers. At least that's what happened so far. Is this really some kind of situation that couldn't have been handled without, let me say, passing a special bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u241	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u242	Mr. Senator, I think it was very useful to adopt this bill. The fact is that the municipalities can merge, possibly that the areas of one municipality are moving to another, but in this case the municipality is indebted and the municipality that would be created by the merger would have to take over the municipality with all its possessions and debts, because it could not be extended. And under this law, the debt, which has the municipality of Ostrowice, takes over the State Treasury. It seems to me that this is the basic element of this law, it is precisely so that the municipality can take over the second municipality, but not take it, as it has been so far by law, with all the debt that the municipality is burdened with. And the second theme. There is also a question of debt. How do I solve this? Because then, too, these claims would have gone to the new municipality that was founded, and so the Treasury took the initiative to pay them. Of course, there will be a procedure. It's already a separate topic. But the subject of debt is already taken out of its head, it does not burden the municipality that will take over the former. [[My question was why the bill was needed, why it couldn't be done according to the rules...]] [[But the senator has already answered that question.]] Because without this bill, I don't think there would be a right to such a decision from the government and the ministry to pay that money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u243	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have three questions, but you could actually combine them into one. Was the committee meeting talking about whether in recent years, including the last two-and-a-half years, everything was done to save this community? Was it mentioned whether it is the most indebted municipality in Poland, or percentage or quota? And the third question. Wouldn't opening this box with Pandora, as the sacred memory classic said, make... Well, it's very convenient that the Treasury will take over these obligations. Debted municipalities are more in Poland. Aren't we going to have an avalanche of that in a moment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u245	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u246	Senator, I'm gonna ask the Minister to answer the first question, because I don't know if they've been taken over the years, let's say, some sort of procedure or action that would prevent it. I'm sure there's been a commissioner there for a while... [[Voice from the Chamber: 2 Commissioners.]] ...or 2. I'll ask for a detailed answer here from the Minister or the Ministry. However, it seems to me that such an indebted commune, in such proportions and without the possibility, the chances are not present today. I also think that for every community, and for the council of the commune, for the board, it's a certain honor to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] ...to have a commune, to keep it so that it exists. I think a lot of municipalities are in debt and in a difficult situation, but I'm sure they'll do anything... They still have the possibility, there are some prospects that they can come out of this. And here everything indicated there was no way to save it. And hence, I suppose, the decision of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry, that at least for today the issue of this one commune be settled. It could also be a warning to other municipalities: please, act well, manage well, so that similar fate does not happen to you. Well, that's the conclusion I'd make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u247	Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, he's gonna be a little bit tone with the previous questions. During the committee's work, during the debate, did there come a thread on the possibility of similar cases and such thinking about legislation in order, on the basis of this example, to create a more universal statutory record? It would be a mechanism of action if there were other possible cases, because we know that the municipalities in debt in a way that threatens their functioning are more in Poland. And wasn't that... Was there a discussion about creating a permanent model of conduct, instead of always creating a specialty for a particular case?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u249	Because of the problem that's already happened. Mr. Senator, the exact kind of question you asked wasn't there, but I think there's a field to answer... [[I'll ask the Minister.]] ...Mr. Minister or Ministry. Well, I'm sure it can happen again, and that's without a doubt, and it would be good to have a record like that, but today it's just this one case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u250	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Chezernaker, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is with us today. Minister, do you wish to speak on this bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, the rapporteur presented the draft law and put forward its main assumptions. If that is your will, then I can address those issues that were raised in questions to the senator. Well, there was a question of system solutions. Indeed, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration sees the problem of municipalities that are in debt, also in parabanking institutions. This is a problem that is increasingly common. Here we were dealing with a situation where the municipality has been committing to parabanks for years. We see this issue and we believe that regulations will be needed in the near future to respond to this need. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in the near future, perhaps in the context of a debate on regional accounting chambers, the role of regional accounting chambers... Issues relating to the debt of municipalities, including in parabanks, need to be regulated and such proposals from the Ministry will be presented. Here we are dealing with a municipality which is the most indebted on a national scale. That's the answer to one of the questions. There were two repair programs in this municipality that didn't work. There was also a working interservice team. Indeed, first we tried to solve this issue with an interministerial team, so as to prepare some program for this municipality, but almost 100% Ostrowice municipality areas are the areas that are subject to the "Natura 2000" programme and it is very difficult to invest there. As I said, two repair programs have not been implemented. This debt has increased avalanchely, as they were contracts concluded in parabanking institutions, and hence these special arrangements. Senator Kleina was asking why we are adopting these special solutions, what this bill needs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order that these obligations which have arisen may be verified by the West Pomeranian Voivodeship so that it may have statutory assistance from the State Treasury prosecutor. We know the D.A.'s office has charged the former mayor, the former treasurer of the commune, and we know there's an indictment that many documents are missing. For years, the municipality has been pathologically managed and simply in the current legal regime, in its current legal state, there has been no effective solution to this problem. And that's why the special proposal of the specialist. As regards the questions that Senator Sztark asked here, also those concerning consultations, please, from the very beginning, involved in these meetings, in the discussions, there were local government officials from 2 municipalities: Złocieniec and Drawsko Pomorskie. The Act also indicates that under the regulation the President of the Council of Ministers will or will already be prepared... Well, there must be a public consultation, but, ladies and gentlemen, this will be the basis for the adoption of this regulation, I think, of a joint letter, which has been sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, signed by the mayors of these municipalities, by the chairmen of the Councils. In this letter it is proposed to divide the municipalities of Ostrowice between Złocieniec and Drawsko Pomorskie. And that'll be the starting point. Since the beginning these solutions have been consulted on the spot, I have also been at a meeting with local government officials twice with residents. The Western Pomeranian Voivodeship is currently cooperating with local government officials from the Draw County, so that this law and event, which will be a major event in the history of the county, will not impose any further obligations on the municipalities that will take over... This is the Popeger area. The municipality of Ostrowice is a community of popegeerska and in today's legal system it was really difficult to find another solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u252	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein, and then Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask why a bill is needed for this case. In the light of the rules in force, the municipalities shall be established and abolished by means of a regulation of the Council of Ministers after appropriate consultations, which must be carried out by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Could it not have been decided on the basis of existing rules to liquidate this municipality? That's the first question. Second question. What would have happened if the decision to liquidate the municipality hadn't been made? What would be the next steps of banks or other institutions? What would this issue look like in practice if there were no external intervention in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u254	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u255	Firstly, Mr Senator, as I said, this law establishes specific tools, including to verify the obligations they report to municipalities of various types of institutions, including parabank institutions. Hence, special arrangements were needed to be borrowed from bankruptcy law so that residents of the area could function normally in the future. The senator asked in his second question what would happen next. It would have been as it has been over the past years, which means that bailiffs would have taken the funds needed for the normal functioning of the municipality and no investments could have been made. Recently, the municipality was managed by the Commissioner. If not for this law, elections would have to be held which would have resulted in additional costs associated with the functioning of the local government. In fact, recently there was a problem with the functioning of schools, the functioning of canteens, the functioning of... Practically impossible was the normal everyday life of this community. In the current legal system, there are no tools for such a municipality to come out of this problem on its own. [[I see. And the buildings would be occupied by...]] Exactly. And if there was a connection under current conditions, the municipalities that would take over Ostrowice would also take over a 50-million-dollar debt with which, let's say to themselves, they would have to face the entire legal facilities, or actually without such facilities. Today we create legal facilities for the voivodship, also in the form of prosecutors, so that we can verify issues related to the debt of Ostrowice municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u256	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u257	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'm going to continue a little bit with Senator Rybicki. Isn't there now a belief among the local authorities that there is no way to endure well? Yes, honor, ambition and local patriotism require the municipality to exist, but if it is in a dramatic situation... The Minister himself admits that many municipalities are on the edge. Isn't there going to be a need to work on a string of such specialties? Isn't that going to be a budget burden? After all, the State Treasury is taking over the burden here. Are we preparing, or is the resort preparing a general solution to this issue in order to avoid such threats?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u258	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u259	As I said, we see the issue of increasing government debt. Surely, 28 years after the reform and the next reform of the administration that we had at the end of the 1990s, it is now time for the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to give the tools to the regional accounting chambers to act more effectively so that this does not happen. Because this situation is also the result of the lack of state institutions, the absence of a regional clearing house that would have such tools to block local government activities at the appropriate stage so as not to lead to such a situation. I would like to point out that this bill in our view... We'd like her to be an incident and not have more incidents like this. I'm sure there's a need for system solutions. As far as this incidental solution is concerned, we are dealing with an exceptional municipality, because there is no possibility, no possibility of investing there. An example of other municipalities from the same voivodship, such as Rewala, where corrective plans are implemented... But this municipality is located in a place like this. There are very good properties there. That you can... [[Yeah, tourism.]] ...thanks to tourism and other such activities to get straight, saying very colloquially. It wasn't a possibility here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u260	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I think most of us might hesitate... But I don't hesitate, and I'm gonna ask you what the money went to. Well, 50 million zlotys that spent 2,500 people... You could say that any family living there could build a little house. It's completely unimaginable. Is it really just that interest, or was that money actually spent on something? What's in there? Was there an airport built in the middle of the woods or some deep water reservoir or, I don't know, some hospital that doesn't work? [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's just from my share a little... I am smiling now, but, Minister, I have no doubt that this bill is legitimate and must be supported. However, it is worth considering the mechanism that led to this situation. You said something about this responsibility, but... but I think, if there really was a situation, that in this relatively small group That's 2.5,000 people. It's pretty easy to identify specific people who are responsible for this. I can't imagine we'll be here anytime soon. I would like to stress: in the near future They didn't hear who was responsible or how. It can't be that there's been any charges, it's gonna go down, and then it's gonna fall apart, and we're not gonna hear more about this town because she's not gonna be there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u262	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u263	Mr. Senator, if there was a hospital there, you'd know that... [[But it's not working.]] ...because of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mrs. Marshal! It's just that two years ago, the charges were filed against the treasurer and the governor. There's an indictment today, there are specific allegations of mismanagement in this municipality. That's one thing. Secondly, this debt has increased over the years. As the senator pointed out here, there were no mechanisms that would allow the state to effectively block this type of action. These are, to a large extent, interest relating to very unfavourable contracts which were signed. That's why in this bill this whole mechanism of verification of these contracts... The State Treasury's interests will be guarded by a voivode with the entire back office in the form of a State Treasury prosecutor, so that these funds are paid in such a way as to... The point is that there should be no doubt as to whether these contracts were legally or unlawfully signed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u264	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u265	Thank you. Minister, you've been talking about these 28 years of self-government. On 8 March 1990, the Local Government Act, subsequently amended to the Municipal Government Act. It was a different time, 28 years ago it was about being close to the commune. Today, it all changes. In such a small community as you just mentioned, a senator of 2.5,000 people, it's actually enough to have 500 and 600 votes to become mayor or mayor. Minister, are there any known cases? I'm going to go back to this law on the commune merger that the communes were connected? I mean, this 5% bonus, it's to benefit from it. Is he not enough? Is that too little of an incentive? Is there anything that needs to be done to encourage municipalities to merge so that they do not face such difficult situations? And I'm saying this in connection with this bill... I know there's been an amendment made in the Seym... I know that this bonus is in the case of a merger of municipalities. There's no connection here, and that's why there was no need. What was the government's position... Because I know it didn't work out... I think that's 5%. It was an encouragement to what you were talking about. It's an art. 1 paragraph 4 who talks about these consultations The point is to show that for these 5%, you can, I don't know, build a road between one and the other municipality, because it was probably 3 million. Was it not worth accepting this amendment and encouraging the municipalities to have something to do with it? But this basic question is whether there were municipalities that merged and benefited from this bonus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u266	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u267	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Earlier, questions were raised as to whether these solutions would not be an incentive for others to be indebted. In the ministry's opinion, any additional bonus, apart from the fact that the State is actually extending the area, could be such an incentive. We did not want such encouragement to arise. [[The other way around...]] The government takes into account the specifics of this area, so that Mr. Senator was talking about the roads. The local road support fund also provided additional resources in the Draw County this year. I am convinced that the specificity of this region, the Popegeer region, is that it needs resources and that the government will be particularly supportive of this area. Although we are convinced that any additional bonus, even if the one that is due after the merger would add: a voluntary combination would unfortunately be an incentive... Such a bonus would operate in the opposite way here than the one that is supposed to encourage the communes to merge on a daily basis. Of course, there are situations, but in these pathological situations we're dealing with here... We're convinced that a 50-million-dollar debt... I would like to point out: not debt, but liabilities The State Treasury's verification of these obligations is such a big bonus that there should be no other rules that could, God forbid, encourage others to indebt themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u268	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Decision to liquidate the municipality and establish a new collapse under the Council of Ministers Regulation. She must be preceded by a consultation. What happens if, for example, Neighborhood communities to take it, they won't agree to it, these consultations will be negative, society will do some kind of referendum? I know that there have been cases like this, and I've been running a case like this in the community myself, for example. against the national park. What then? Is that mandatory or not? Because I was wondering. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u270	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u271	As I said, the provisions of the Act state that the division will happen anyway. Of course, this consultation is to take place. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to point out that there is an initiative of 2 municipalities here, there is an initiative of mayors and chairmen of the commune councils Złocieniec and Drawsko, who in a letter to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration have proposed, including a map, with the entire timetable, the process of dividing the commune. So this is the starting point that gained some kind of social acceptance. This letter was handed to us by local government officials. I am convinced that their will will will be the basis for this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u272	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, my question is quite specific. I think it might be interesting in terms of law. After all, the local community consists of people who have civil rights. This question relates to events that will take place in the near future. Well, I'm referring to a specific territory. Take, for example. electoral law, passive or active. As long as there is no administrative decision on the division of this municipality, it is not known how this electoral right will be exercised by the inhabitants of that territory. It is, of course, also about other regulations concerning districts, but also participation in the education system, in various other events which have territorial scope and are planned over the coming months.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u274	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u275	This law also provides for specific provisions relating to the holding of local elections, as well as to other matters relating to the units currently subordinate to that municipality. As far as the issue of local elections is concerned, the plan is this. And hence the request addressed by the government to the Marshal of the Sejm, to the Marshal of the Senate, to carry out this bill as soon as possible. - so that there is as much time as possible to implement these specific provisions. These provisions indicate that, after the entry into force of this law, a regulation will be issued by the President of the Council of Ministers, which will divide the municipality on 1 January, but the elections, this year's municipal elections, are expected to take place on new conditions, i.e. in new municipalities. The inhabitants of today's Ostrowice will vote within the new municipalities. The term of office of the old authorities in those municipalities which will take over Ostrowice will be extended until the end of this year and the new term of office will start on 1 January 2019. Within 7 days of the New Year, the first meeting of the new bodies will be held, which will be elected this year, so as not to generate any new costs, so that the next elections will not be held again. In fact, we already know of cases where the term was accidentally extended, and this is the case. The term of office, which is legally passed throughout Poland on 16 November this year, will be extended until 31 December and the residents will already vote within the new enlarged municipalities. The electoral districts will be presented in accordance with the provisions of this law. Well, the commune will be divided into electoral districts by the electoral commissioner. So that we are convinced that if this law is adopted, we will keep all deadlines and in accordance with the rules we will effectively lead to these local elections in the autumn of this year. [[That also applies to Złocieniec and Drawska, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u276	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns general matters. You make certain decisions in this law, you introduce certain laws that apply not only to this one municipality. Specifically, it is the issue of convening a newly elected council of the municipality, each council of the municipality, immediately after the elections. So far, it has been convened within 7 days of the announcement of the overall outcome of the country's council elections. The same applies to the councils of powiats and voivodships, seymikas of voivodships. And right now we're talking about convening the first session within 7 days of the end of the term of office of the Council. Isn't the Minister worried that there might be a situation where... I mean, there are elections, they can be no later than 7 days before the end of their term of office. The term of office runs out, and within 7 days, the elected commissioner is expected to convene his first session. And then there will be no collective election results, no one will know who to notify about this session. So far, aggregate results have been the border point. In short, it was impossible to convene a session earlier than when it was already known who to invite to this session. And that is the general question: why do you change it? Well, there's got to be some sense in changing it. Now, as far as the laws related to this bill are concerned, but the incidents that once consummated will inspire, we will not apply them again... there are two border points. One is the moment this law enters into force. And here the term is very short: day after day of announcement. So we're in a hurry. That's right. And the second is the moment. the abolition of the commune. And this is January 1, 2019. The question is which one should be sooner, which one should be later, and what should be the distance between them. And art. 12: From the date of the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice As of 1 January 2019, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in No interest and non-interest costs shall be charged, etc. So the parabanks will be able to charge that interest by January 1. And why this art. 12 doesn't operate on the date of the Act's entry into force? Why are we allowing parabanks that have been at it for another six months of milking, this time the Treasury, because he's the one who's gonna pay for it? But the best part is art. 16. Elections in Ostrowice municipality are obviously not being conducted. Well, that's right. They've already done it, that's what I'd call it. And the elections within the commune or municipalities which absorb the commune of Ostrowice are held on a general date. So it's going to be, let's say, the beginning of November. But the first session of the municipality council, which will absorb the municipality of Ostrowice, is not done as everywhere, within 7 days of the end of the term of office, only on a day within 7 days from the date on which the borders were established. This determination of boundaries involves the abolition of the municipality. So what would that mean? That this would be in the period of January 1, 2019. And what is this poor community or these poor 2 municipalities that absorb Ostrowice, guilty of being absorbed, and why are they forbidden to rule for 2 months, just when, in particular, they should be interested in this area? [[Mr. Senator, I'd like you to finish this question.]] So yes: 2 specific questions related to the municipality of Ostrowice itself and 1 general question related to the change in the way the first session was convened.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u278	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u279	Thank you for these questions. As regards issues relating to general rules, as a government in this law, we have proposed to amend the provisions of the municipal government law, the district government and the voivodship government on issues relating to the complaint concerning the decision of the electoral commissioner. At present, this is an art. 22... very often... The same has been the case with Ostrowice so far, that in connection with the appeal of the authority to the court these proceedings have lasted for a very long time. In this respect, there is a deadline of 30 days for the Supreme Administrative Court and administrative courts. And on the occasion of the work in Parliament, as part of the parliamentary amendments, amendments were tabled, which you spoke about, which resulted from issues such as those of order, as the Members who tabled these amendments said. Since this year, in connection with the amendment of the electoral code, we will first have elections that can take place 30 days before the end of the term of office, it was not possible to call new advice 7 days after the announcement of the outcome of the election, because the terms would still be imposed on each other. And these are purely and exclusively order issues, which are here as a result of the amendments tabled in Parliament. As far as the article is concerned. 12, about interest issues, in fact, if not for this law, this interest would continue to increase, and avalanchely, over the next few months and years, until a systemic solution for such municipalities was introduced. In our view, at a time when there will be a new administrative breakdown, these interest and extra-interest costs should no longer be charged. Hence the proposal from the article. 12. As far as the article is concerned. 16, that, as I said earlier, these local government elections will already be conducted to the new authorities, which will start on the date on which the new administrative borders will be established, i.e. on 1 January 2019. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal, ask the Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u280	Please, briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u281	Mr. Minister, art. 16th Act on Public Government: The term of office of the commune council lasts 5 years, counting from the date of the election. The day of selection here is a temporary cesarea, not the day of the end of the previous term of office. I don't know if I'm making myself clear... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Yes, but applying the two regulations you are talking about, that is calling a new council... that would mean shortening the term of office of the previous council, wouldn't it? A few weeks at worst.]] And an extension of a year, because I don't know if you've noticed. Okay, well, let's just leave it at that, because here, I see, we're not gonna reach an agreement. As far as the issue of these two deadlines is concerned, and actually not the deadlines, only the border dates The date of entry into force of the Act and the date of the abolition of the municipality, the one and only Mr. Minister, we would like to minimize these costs. Why do we allow this to be a very simple question? So that for almost six months, interest will be charged? It's from this percentage that these sums are born. They borrowed 50, and they're gonna have to pay 400... Minister, I don't see the point. We're still blocking interest. Yes or no? [[Mr. Senator...]] Then why are we blocking them so late?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u282	Minister, please respond. Then the question will be asked by Senator Shark... [[Voice from the room: No, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u283	Mr. Senator, the only way to freeze this interest is through this law alone. In other situations, this would not be possible at all. On January 1, this municipality will not be present, therefore from that date... Dear Senators, it is also such that the Western Pomeranian voivode has many tools to verify whether these contracts were legally signed and whether these interest rates were legally charged. This is a tool that wouldn't have happened without this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u284	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Robert Mammets a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u285	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm worried about how it's possible that in all these years 'Cause it didn't happen in one year, did it? The municipality was brought to such a state that it simply went bankrupt. Where was the RIO, where were the state institutions? After all, these institutions should also be responsible for this situation, because they, I would say, indirectly affect it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u286	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u287	Mr Senator, I would not like to bring this discussion into political discussion, but I would add that in 2010 there was a request from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to establish a procedure for the commission board there. Perhaps this would help and save this municipality, because at the level of debt of 2010... However, in 2010 and 2015 there were no such actions. Let me add that the person who has been charged today, the groom, was elected from the election committee of the party that was in charge at the time. In 2015, Law and Justice won the election and Prime Minister Beata Szydło appointed this commission board there in January 2016. He started acting after a few months too in connection with those time limits in the courts. So in fact, the commission board started operating there at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u288	Thank you. Senator Maciej Łuczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask if we have information about what the law looks like. in other countries of the European Union. Can local governments be indebted in this way? I have one more question. I assume some small, small businesses exist in the current community. Who will bear the costs of changing the address? It is known that the commune will cease to exist in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u290	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u291	When it comes to issues related to system solutions, it also depends on the functioning of the local government in the country. There is no doubt that local governments have much more competence than in other countries, and in terms of reform, which in the opinion of many people was a successful reform, a reform which was a successful reform after the changes in the system, it is in our view today that we, the Ministry, need a change of rules, also linked to this 5-year term and two-cadence, because since the legislator has introduced two-cadency, this will give rise, I am convinced, further reasons for the debt of local authorities, especially in this second term, to debt that could be dangerous for the future of the municipality. I am convinced that we are already at such a stage of local government reform in Poland that new solutions must be presented, including the functioning of those institutions of the state which should be responsible for this, i.e. regional accounting chambers. I am also convinced that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in a short time... Well, these are system solutions that you will not work out every day, although there is a disposition of Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Brudziński to make it permanent and to introduce such system solutions, because we know that they are needed. As far as detailed solutions are concerned, it is in this law that the issues related to how the municipalities that take over Ostrowice... all kinds of cases that result from the takeover, including the acquisition of employees, schools, are described in very detail, because we wanted the schools to remain, so that there would be no changes in this issue. They're taking on... Of course, they get extended territory and tax revenue from residents of this area, i.e. approx. PLN 10 million, but therefore there are also certain obligations which are imposed on these municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u292	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Grażyna Sztark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u293	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Before I read the statement that I mentioned earlier The Minister, who deals with this difficult task in relation to the municipality of Ostrowice, the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice and its attachment to these two municipalities, has certainly also been handed over to him. I would like to tell you that the municipality of Ostrowice, a beautiful municipality, a small municipality, unfortunately was marked with some big bad luck. When I became a voivode... In 2008... This is where the first government in Poland was arrested and later served in prison for some embezzlement. And that's probably where it started. This town had a very bad luck. I believe that if a decision had been taken on the commission board in 2010 At that time, I applied twice to your voivodeship, because that was the best decision I ever made at the time. Today we would be in a much better position. However, there was no courage, and there was no anticipation and responsibility, in my opinion. In addition, the Regional Audit Chamber did not stand at the level of the task either. And I would like to say, Minister, that the integration of the Koszalin Regional Audit Chamber into Szczecin has come to a disadvantage, because I think that Koszalinska acted much better and it has already pointed out these mistakes. And it would be worth looking into it, because the person who pointed out these mistakes was then removed from the case. So I admit... And what I'm trying to say is that you're very gentle, really, because it was definitely the fault of that time... that we didn't think it was a definite thing to do now, as I say, this beautiful community... But I also want to tell you that this is a difficult role. And I feel very sorry for you because these people are really very attached to the current name, to this community... I'm sorry, because I'm sure these meetings were very difficult, very difficult. But at the same time, I agree with the opinion that Senator Czerwinski was talking about. Wouldn't it be worth thinking about? 'Cause it's not the voivode that's gonna decide these percentages, and the parabanks are really taking advantage of the opportunity and their interest, the financial tranches are obviously downloading, without... I was still afraid... Besides, I've got a fortune there that's also very threatened. [[Well, it's a little late...]] And that's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm talking about, and I admit... But it would be worth a look at these materials at all. I'll just add that to the margin. It is a good thing that it wasn't just the town of Drawsko Pomorskie, because I think... There were different fates at the time, too. Besides, this county and Drawsko Pomorskie are also in trouble, as we know, because it's about the hospital, and the mayor is in trouble, and therefore there is a very difficult situation at present. But this is what Senator Rybicki was talking about and what, in connection with this presentation of both municipalities, Złocieniec and Drawska Pomorski, I am performing, i.e. To find a solution to equalise the odds of these Ostrowices Which, let's not hide for years... Because if you had to pay those debts, especially to the parabanks, then the neglect of infrastructure is enormous. Therefore, these 2 municipalities, Złocieniec and Drawsko Pomorskie, will unfortunately have to deal with these problems. And that's why it's a statement that I'm going to read now. I also directed them to the Prime Minister in anticipation of systemic solutions. Dear Prime Minister, My senator's office was visited by a statement and the position of the city council in Złocieńc concerned by the fact that due to the planned takeover by the municipality of Złocieniec part of the area abolished on 1 January 2019, Ostrowice commune in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodeship, no legal solutions were foreseen in the bill to ensure that the State Treasury provided Złociec with the appropriate economic and legal instruments to find the necessary sources of funding to implement the necessary investments in order to eliminate development delays in the affected areas. I would like to ask you to take a position on the concern and opposition of local authorities of the municipality of Złocieniec, as well as the municipality of Drawsko Pomorskie, which, in their joint speech of 5 June 2018, submitted proposals and proposals for legal solutions to protect the financial situation of these municipalities in connection with the acquisition of the areas and tasks abolished as of 1 January 2019 of the municipality of Ostrowice. In this respect, I also ask that legislative action be taken to address the shortcomings in support of local authorities, which are not their own fault, once the areas of the municipalities are attached to them, will be in a difficult situation resulting from the taking over of new responsibilities and tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. And I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 865 and the report of the Commission In prints Nos 865 A and 865 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which has examined the law on amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws. The aim of this law is to extend the circle of persons entitled to obtain public-funded legal aid, to improve the regulation on the identification of non-governmental organisations providing free legal assistance and to enable these organisations to provide free civic advice under the law, and to limit the exemptions from the scope of free legal aid and to link free legal assistance and free civic advice with legal assistance provided at the stage of judicial proceedings. A major change compared to the current legal situation will be the opening of a system of free legal advice for those who did not belong to any group of beneficiaries to date, but who are in a material situation which prevents them from taking advantage of paid legal advice. It is also worth noting that the scope of this legal advice is new. It may include informing the person entitled of the applicable legal status and of his or her powers or obligations, including the powers and obligations relating to the ongoing preparatory, administrative, judicial or judicial proceedings, or the costs of proceedings and financial risks associated with the referral of the case to the judicial process. The Act also provides for the enrichment of the existing offer of points where legal assistance is provided, mediation and above mentioned civic guidance. The definition of free mediation rules under the amended law is intended to fill the legal gap in the form of a lack of systematic solutions to ensure access to amicable dispute resolution mechanisms and at the same time to reduce the number of cases submitted to courts. Free civic guidance is to be addressed in particular to persons in debt who have housing problems and in matters governed by social security legislation. It will be a novelty to establish that free civic guidance can be provided by advisers, i.e. persons who have a higher education level and have received training in the provision of civic guidance or have gained experience in this field, and who also enjoy full public rights and have full legal capacity and have not been punished for intentional criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecutions or tax offences. Voivodeships will keep a list of non-governmental organizations entitled to run points in the area of individual voivodships. The inclusion in the list to the appropriate extent is to be made by administrative decision, once certain requirements have been established by the non-governmental organisation concerned. The fact that these requirements continue to be met will be examined and reviewed on an ongoing basis. Non-governmental organisations entrusted with the provision of free legal assistance or free civic guidance under the agreement will also carry out legal education tasks. In addition, the amendments to the Act concern the functioning of points where free legal advice is to be provided or free civic advice is to be provided. It is about the number of hours, the location of these points, documenting cases of granting free legal assistance or providing free guidance and further handling of aid cards, the allocation of the grant granted to the county for carrying out the tasks laid down in that law. The Commission has dealt with the bill. During the work of the committee, the representative of the President, Minister Surówka-Pasek, presented the main principles of the Act. The Legislative Office raised reservations, several reservations, one was substantive, the majority were technical and editorial reservations. A brief discussion ensued. The chairman of the committee, Mr Robert Mamątow, Senator Robert Mamątow, applied for the bill without amendment. The proposal was supported by three senators and three senators abstained. The committee therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee. There you go. [[I can help, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] Senator Frost is on his way. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law was dealt with twice at its meeting on 26 June and yesterday. Senator Ambrozik presented the essence of this bill. I can say that the most active speaker on the part of the senators in our committee was Mr Zientarski, who to some extent shared some of the doubts raised at the committee's meeting with regard to this law by the representatives of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and the barrister's council. At the committee meeting, representatives from the association of legal advisers and lawyers raised de facto 2 issues. The first issue is the extension of the catalogue of eligible persons. According to this amendment, this catalogue concerns... Well, anyone can come and make a statement that he's a person who can't afford professional legal advice. Of course, this statement is made under the responsibility. And that's what lawyers and lawyers questioned, claiming to be some kind of inequality. They called for the introduction of an income criterion as an element that would determine who could and who could not use free legal advice. The second issue raised by the lawyers and lawyers concerned a certain advantage in their view of the NGOs which are to provide these legal advices. They showed that lawyers and lawyers do it more effectively, cheaper and more professionally. As I said, these views or these conclusions were close to Mr Zientarski. Consequently, so that we can reflect on the requests, both from our Legislative Office and from the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and the lawyer, there was a second meeting of the committee at which the Minister presented her position. It did not share these comments. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u298	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The question to both rapporteurs, but especially to Senator Mr.Mroza, has given more attention to the issue of the inclusion of three extensions, subjective and subjective, which are somehow honey for people affected by ignorance, sometimes not by their own fault, but probably often. These are 3 paths: mediation, civic guidance and personal extension concerning practically all people in Poland in terms of the use of this assistance. The first question is: did the President's firm indicate the source of funding or specify, if the expenditures in relation to the subjective and the subject-matter enlargement increase? Question two. The law contains the possibility to provide legal assistance in procedural proceedings, including criminal proceedings. Was the possibility of a conflict situation taken into account where a citizen using a paid lawyer, counsel or other helper would at the same time benefit from free assistance? Then a dissonance could appear in defense and the citizen could say that the institutions of law, the defences give conflicting opinions. Was that taken into account? Finally: was what the county council, the main recipient of the bill, except, of course, the citizens, taken into account... What opinion did he make? How many and what objections did he make to the laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u300	Thank you. Senator Ambrosik and Senator Frost. I don't know which one of you will answer the questions first. You're welcome, Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As far as funding is concerned, it remains at the same level. The legal aid system has so far been inefficient. It turns out that only 3% of those entitled to use free legal advice have benefited from these advices. As far as the second question is concerned, anyone entitled to make a statement that he is unable to cover the costs of a paid legal advice may seek free advice from a lawyer. And it's like it's not against him having a criminal case. Each person can actually have a few attorneys and ask for a lot of advice. I don't think that's a problem. The more we know, the more we learn, the wider the circle of stakeholders with whom we consult, the better it is usually.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u302	Thank you very much. Senator Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As far as costs are concerned, let me put it this way: as I recall, at the very beginning, at the first meeting of our committee, Mr Zientarski said that this is such an exceptional situation where no one complains about lack of resources. The measures for this legal guidance are, as colleague Ambrozik said here, the idea was to make the optimal use of these resources, because there are situations where, after the initial period when there was a lot of involvement and there were a lot of people coming, in some cities or at some points, few people come. And given that we're still spending money on these legal advices, Mr. President. Because this is the President's bill, it came out of that assumption, but, as the Minister said, after consulting, after the research, also after downloading data from the Ministry of Justice, that if we are already spending money, this money should be spent effectively. So there is no situation here that there is no money available, so it was presented at the committee meeting. About the other thing you asked the senator... Yes, this amendment also introduces this possibility, namely also in the course of legal proceedings someone may come for such legal assistance. That's not a possibility so far. The amendment also introduces one more thing that the Minister spoke about, and I think it will further develop in her speech. In fact, it makes it compulsory to draw up letters. A lot of people want lawyers or lawyers to draft a magazine. So far it has been such a general possibility, and after this amendment, of course, if it is adopted and enters into force, it will already be very clear: yes, you can come and at the legal aid point Whether it is run by NGOs or directly by lawyers, lawyers, because these NGOs also cooperate with lawyers or legal advisers, with legal professionals, it will already be possible to draw up a ready-to-be written letter, which this person will be able to simply sign and submit. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] About... Unless you're still a senator... [[Does the senator want to ask you an additional question?]] No, no, it was the senator who explained... I don't recall this matter being raised on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u304	Are there any more questions? Senator Comfort. Tell me which of the two rapporteurs is the question. [[It's for the senator.]] Come on, Mr. Senator, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u305	I'd like to know if... Mr. Senator here just said that since there's money and they're for many years. That would be the result of this statement. It's wasted, then it's worth it... [[No, no.]] No, no. That they're misused. Well, Mr. Senator, we can get back to the transcript, that's what you said. And that the fantastic thing about this bill is that we're finally gonna be able to use the free powers that we're paying for anyway. Those are your words. [[Right. This is...]] Yeah, well, if we're paying for free processing powers, that means something's wrong. Was it a question of how maybe instead of necessarily sticking to spending that money because we already have it? Just to upset the funds to the needs, not to create more lives and to cultivate a certain kind of distribution? Because we do not use this and we cannot find in society such a demand for legal advice, and we have different organizations in the area, which we are willing to transfer and therefore extend the scope of those who can take this money from you. Has there been any discussion about this, or has it been considered that since there is no such need here, perhaps these measures could be directed elsewhere, for example. to health care? The disabled here recently protested in the Seym. Maybe this way...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u306	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First of all, I didn't tell you that the measures quote you because I wrote it down. They're not being used properly. All I'm saying is that we're trying and that this is the purpose of this initiative, the bill that you've submitted to the president... The aim is to make more effective use of those measures which are already intended to be used more effectively to make more effective use of them. There are very different situations. There are queues at some points, and there aren't queues at some points. As a result of this amendment we make... Well, here, as part of the President's proposal, there is an extension of both the subject matter and the subject matter in this bill. As far as subjective enlargement is concerned, we know that we are talking here about the fact that there will be more of these people. Today this catalogue of people was very clearly defined, there were included: people with disabilities, people after sixty-five years of age, people, I do not remember, probably until one year of age. Today we are expanding this catalogue of people by, according to the justification of this project, a potential of at least 7 million people who did not fit in this catalogue and could not benefit from the current solutions, and now will be able to use these solutions. We are also expanding the scope of this law because there is mediation, which has not yet been, and there is civic guidance. As far as civic counseling is concerned, as the Minister said here, it is not that someone has invented this, just from various signals, from research, that many people are looking for such help. This aid is not strictly legal aid. The point is that people are often lost, sometimes they need psychological help, they need a direction where to go, how to deal with some sort of thing. Often they're not strict. legal issues. We are also introducing the issue of legal education. If Mr. Senator... In one sentence, I will answer the question of whether there was such a question as to take money: no, this issue was not raised at the committee meeting. But, you know, I'm a little surprised, because from all the data and statistics, there is little legal awareness in Poland, however, that the number of people using lawyers, legal counsels and legal assistance, generally through legal assistance, is small. So if we today, thanks to the spending of this money, allow more people to benefit from this legal assistance, from the help that is further extended to civic guidance, to mediate It is only, of course, mediation in such a pre-trial approach, the preliminary phase of mediation, because it was the Minister who stressed it, too. I'm the one who thinks it's a good thing. And I don't agree with that much, Mr. Senator, well, populism... Because you said we're gonna take the money out of this, and we're probably gonna give it to missing things in health care. You know, you're a lawyer, and you're an educated person, and we're talking about the really small money that goes for it. And comparing it and saying that let's give it to people with disabilities, where we're talking about a few billion... Well, you have to weigh those amounts. And that's a little populism, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry to say so. We're gonna take it here, and then we're gonna add it, because it's not that scale of money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u308	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u309	I keep turning to the senator. I wanted to know if he was upset about that. These counselors will be trained, they will be going through training courses. Was there any mention of why you would not direct professionals who have already learned there, but you would have to spend money on charity e.g. mediators? We have a mediation institution, you could reach out to professional mediators. What's the reason we're gonna be spending money on the people that could be spent, much bigger because... Now that you're talking about a certain scale of money, which is so much money, not more... Why spend money on reparation when you can reach out to people who are trained and who are very often unemployed? Isn't it a little bit like we're just expanding the totumphatic circle? We're gonna train them and they're gonna be able to do a job that they can't do, so you wouldn't have to spend money on it. Did she mention that? Could you possibly explain why that is?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u310	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u311	Mr. Senator, I think that to all of your specific questions, the Minister as a representative of the President 'Cause it's a presidential project 'cause it's a presidential project 'cause it's a presidential project 'cause it's a I can say that the issue of training was discussed here. I do not remember whether by a representative of legal counsel or lawyers in another context. Well, in general, lawyers or lawyers thought that they should be burdened to a large extent with this major burden and should do so. I think even a representative - If I'm not mistaken. The legal advisors quoted the NIK report and presented some cost data, but I am not able to quote these figures from memory. But I think it's worth the extension, because if... And there was, of course, the issue of NGOs, the fact that the law prefers non-governmental organisations which provide this assistance, because in the case of so-called. An odd number of this point is... In case 3 this will be 2 for non-governmental organisations and 1 for lawyers or legal advisers. There's one more thing. As far as leading these points is concerned, lawyers say that it is very popular in their environment and there are many willing lawyers and lawyers who are involved. I think maybe, but it's already a certain interpretation of me, it's a market, too. If there is a market, different players are fighting for this market. And here's the difference... I don't want to say business, but the difference is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u312	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u313	Thank you. I'd like to ask. But do you remember the senator, whether or not she was talking about why she didn't... If, like you said, There are a lot of trained people who want to give legal advice, who, moreover, give a number of guarantees because of the rules of their profession, why did they encourage other people to do what they do? Was there such a conversation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u314	Mr. Senator, let's face it. If you give advice after this 70-hour course, you will not be given strict advice. Legally, because you know it's not like that, it's civil counseling... Lawyers and lawyers pointed to some carelessness in terms of what will be legal advice and what will be civil advice. They also raised tax issues and the issue that legal advice is subject to VAT, and civic guidance is not subject to VAT, so it will be difficult for them to compete, even at the price of a service, etc. However, this position was that lawyers, lawyers wanted to be the dominant element. And probably to some extent they will be, because after all, NGOs, which are witnessed by e.g. Legal services, also employ lawyers or legal advisers, only indirectly. Because Mrs. Zosia doesn't give legal advice, even through NGOs, if this Mrs. Zosia isn't a lawyer. or a legal adviser, has no knowledge, education, qualifications and skills. If we introduce additional elements in this law, civil counseling... I think lawyers and counselors wouldn't necessarily want to do that. I think maybe we could use some psychologists here, maybe some other people with other skills. If they take a course, pass a test, obtain privileges and find a need for their services, they will be able to provide them. And if no one takes them to this job, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u315	The next question you're asking is Senator Comfort. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u316	I'm just gonna say two words, Senator, just to calm you down. Like Minister Grabarczyk, if I remember correctly, he invented this bill and it came to us, and I would like to tell you this to be objective. I was very critical of all of this, and I was very surprised that half the work was done by lawyers. or lawyers, and by the second half you have to choose a non-governmental organisation, which in turn will hire lawyers or counselors. At the time I said that it was a bow towards... that it was as if it was an extension of the environment, not an improvement of something. That's where my thesis came from. At the time, I was asking if anyone noticed this and why once again the group, which is the beneficiary of this money, is expanding again, without a substantive reason. At least I can't see him.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u317	Are there any further questions from the senators? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the president. Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek, Undersecretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to speak? Yes. There you go. I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the President's position on the law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance, as well as on civic guidance and mediation. This law, as you have already noted here, aims to extend the catalogue of beneficiaries of free legal advice and extends the catalogue of services available under this guidance to include civic guidance, which will only be provided by NGOs, and free mediation, which will serve to develop a negotiated way of resolving the dispute or resolving the conflict at the stage of pre-trial proceedings. I have listened to the discussion and I would like to draw your attention to a number of issues that have already been raised during your discussion and, above all, to the issue of expenditure that has been regulated in the article. 28. The extension of the range of beneficiaries, as well as the extension of the catalogue of benefits available under free legal aid, serve to make more effective use of the funds already allocated to this assistance. Studies carried out by the Ministry of Justice, as well as by the Supreme Audit Chamber, relating to the monitoring of the functioning of the legal aid system, show that, at points of free legal aid, aid is granted for an average of approximately one hour on one working day of such a point, while the points work at least 4 hours for 5 days per week. This means that the possibilities of these points have not been fully exploited. According to the NIK report, the reasons for this situation may vary. Firstly, the too narrow catalogue of entitled persons, secondly, the mismatch of the scope of benefits offered at points of free legal assistance, thirdly, insufficient information provided by the seniors in terms of the functioning of the points. The revision serves as a solution in these 3 areas of problems noticed also by NIK and related to the functioning of the system. It is therefore proposed to open a catalogue of entities entitled to obtain free legal advice, free advice or free mediation. As far as training issues are concerned, training will only apply to people who will be involved in civic guidance. And civic guidance will only be provided by NGOs. Alternative to training It is also governed by the High House's Law to obtain a special certificate certifying that the person has the appropriate knowledge and experience in providing this guidance. This is an alternative to 70-hour training by these people. And those who are lawyers, legal advisers and who will provide legal advice do not need to undergo any training. As far as mediators are concerned, issues relating to the qualification of mediator are governed by other rules. Therefore, here is a de facto reference to these regulations or to those standards which have been developed in the field of mediation under the Code of Civil Procedure. Thank you very much. It's like a supplemental.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u319	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. I see you're checking in, Senator Comforter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u320	Minister, I would like to know how you estimate how much this training will cost, and what percentage of the amount that is currently being spent on counseling? Is it going to be from the same pool and that money is going to be divided somehow, or is there going to be extra money? And that's the first question. Two. It's a statement... that these people have, instead of training, a certificate that they have the right knowledge. I know it's in the bill, but if the Minister could answer who will issue the certificate...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u321	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. With regard to the financing of training, it is in the interest of a social organisation, a non-governmental organisation wishing to deal with civic guidance, that those providing such advice within this organisation receive training. Therefore, this is not related to public spending, it is related to the internal organisation of the organisation itself and how she recruits people who will provide civic guidance within this organisation. As far as certification of qualifications is concerned, the law provides an opportunity here. the creation of associations of non-governmental organisations dealing with the long-term provision of civic guidance. And such associations, which will be accepted by the Ministry, will be able to provide training, as well as issuing certificates certifying that someone has the qualifications required to provide civic guidance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u323	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u324	Yeah, we have three new paths. On the basis of your research, which is just research, you've determined that At least according to my estimates... The office of the President of the Republic of Poland, I apologize to the Minister. And on the basis of my estimates, it means three times, even five times the cost, unless we consider that it will again be just an apparent activity of counseling, even in terms of mediation. The question is: have you calculated how much will it cost even full mediation? Full, I mean one that doesn't end at the party meeting stage, as is the case. Do you distinguish, Madam Minister, that giving advice is a one-time, one-time and short-term act As you say: an hour for a few people, right? While mediation can last a year, various activities take place, documentation is obtained, meetings are arranged, the discretion of these meetings is important, etc. And these are costs that exceed, in some cases, 100 times the cost of providing advice. Second question. What does that mean... Senator Frost says that psychological assistance will be provided as part of civil counseling. Is that true? Or maybe there'll be some other help, for example. A medical assistant or an assistant for court appearances? The third question, the question you've probably already heard here. Well, the defendant in the criminal trial uses a proxy, which is the only thing he should use and at the same time on the side. And that is true, Mr. Senator Frost is benefiting from free aid, in which a draft pleading is drawn up. There's a collision in defense... who's gonna be responsible if this person loses the trial due to a faulty procedure. The State for providing free assistance in the form of a draft procedural letter or a proxy? And there's another thing. Has the Minister taken into account the position of the main recipient, apart from the citizens, of course, the Polish County Union, which points out the lack of precision, nonchalance, the increase in costs, which is not dependent on the efficiency of the lawyer? Cost e.g. The rooms are independent of how many people will come and whether anyone will come at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u325	Excuse me, Minister. First, Senator Frost in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u326	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I didn't say there'd be psychological assistance at these points. [[The senator didn't hear, he didn't hear.]] All I'm saying is that, as part of this civic counseling, these are people who are inconvenient in life. The question was, who would be able to function there perhaps better than a lawyer, a psychologist who could tell them where to go, to which entity, to show the way of dealing with various matters of life, having nothing to do with the law or having little to do with the law. But I'm sure it won't... I didn't say that there would be psychological assistance. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u327	Minister, Senator Rulewski's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As regards the cost of legal advice, which was provided at points of free legal assistance, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber estimated that the cost of 1 such advice, taking into account how much money was spent on the system and how much advice was given for lawyers and legal advisers to be about 340 PLN. What does that tell you? First of all, from the way in which free legal assistance is financed, which means that it is not paid for specific legal advice given, but it is paid for its willingness to provide... [[Ready, yes.]] ...legal affairs. Therefore, at points where there is a high interest in obtaining free legal advice, the unit cost of advice will be lower, while at points where this interest will be lower... This will automatically translate into a higher unit cost of providing such legal advice. As regards mediation, it is estimated that the cost of carrying out 1 hour of mediation is about 150 PLN. We are not able to accurately estimate the cost of mediation, because we are unable to say how many mediation meetings will be needed or whether there will be any interest in mediation at all. Why? For a very simple reason. All cases in which a court or public administration has appointed a mediator are excluded from the scope of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This is a fairly large number of cases that are somehow slipping away from this regulation, which is being dealt with by you. As regards the question of how you put it, the conflict of interest between a lawyer who provides legal assistance from his own office and a lawyer providing free legal assistance, the law excludes In cases where a lawyer is granted ex officio the possibility for a lawyer to draw up written pleadings free of charge. It is precisely about ensuring that this does not happen. A person who wishes to obtain assistance at the stage of judicial proceedings can, but will be aid consisting solely in obtaining advice or the opinion of that person providing free legal assistance. The senator also asked how long such advice lasted, whether it was short or long. According to the data collected by the Ministry of Justice, most of the advice, because more than 40%, were advice, which lasted between 15 and 30 minutes; less than 37% were advice, which was given within 30 and 60 minutes; in turn advice on more complex matters, i.e. requiring advice over more than 60 minutes, constituted only 13, 22%; and the very short advice given in less than 15 minutes was only 9.39%. The position of the Polish County Association was taken into account during the revision of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. These comments, which were submitted by the powiats, concerned inter alia. the extension of the catalogue of entitled persons, in particular the extension of the catalogue of persons who are entitled because of their disability ruling In addition, it dealt with issues related to the qualifications of mediators, which was also taken into account, also concerning minimum standards for training candidates for civil advisers. Therefore, these requests, which were submitted by the Polish Districts Association, were taken into account in this submitted by the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u329	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three specific questions. The first concerns the new institution, namely free civic guidance. Would you like to say a little more about which areas in particular Well, it's been specified, so it's about housing debt and social security, should people who are entitled to come forward for civic advice? So who is this institution addressed to? Two: who will give these advices? We know those who will be disturbed. So the question is, who's gonna train them? That's what Art was talking about. 11b, but maybe you could just name these institutions. Are there already such institutions, or are there? 'Cause there's a pretty high standard here. Previous 7-year-old activity, etc. Anyway, I'd like to ask for a few names of such institutions, associations, associations. And three: will it be possible, in particular, for a citizen who wishes to lodge an emergency complaint within this extensive institution of legal assistance and guidance, and will he be able to ask for his documentation to be ordered so that the application he wishes to lodge in the form of an emergency complaint has a better chance of getting through the formal sieve?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u331	Minister, please, three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u332	With regard to free civic guidance, the Ministry of Justice's research has shown that there are many people who need advice beyond standard legal advice. In particular, they are those who show some difficulty, they cannot cope with various problems related to debt or housing matters. Therefore, knowledge that goes beyond standard legal knowledge was also needed. Sometimes they are also people who have a problem with tax matters and need such a broader view of these matters. Therefore, this civic guidance is addressed primarily to those who need such a comprehensive approach, comprehensive advice, going beyond legal advice. This is the case when this element of legal advice is not even needed, but there is a need for an element of advice on other issues which, as the senator here has pointed out, have been identified as those desirable orientations or specializations in the field of civic guidance. And when it comes to relationships that are supposed to be training, it's this law that creates the basis for relationships... Let me put it another way: it creates the legal basis for this type of relationship. Until the bill is passed, until it enters into force, these relationships cannot be created. There are organizations... At the stage of the procession of the law in the Sejm, I spoke with Mr Jachnik, who is very involved in the activities of various non-governmental organisations providing services related, among others. with legal advice, which has been operating on the Polish market for a long time and are engaged not only in legal advice, but also in civic guidance. As regards issues relating to an emergency complaint, under the Law on Free Legal Assistance, legal advice issues have been formulated in such a way that it will include, in particular, informing the person concerned of his/her powers or of his/her obligations, giving advice within the framework of the problem with which he/she is applying, and drawing up a draft letter. Therefore, it seems to me that this particular person who will provide legal advice will also depend on the assessment of the material or the problem with which the person who wishes to take advantage of free legal advice will come forward. I am unable to answer for those who provide free legal advice, which is precisely, in relation to a particular case, to a specific person who will report to them with any problem, they will do. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u333	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u334	If I may ask about that last answer... I would like to hear a specific answer from the Minister. There comes a person who feels hurt by some judgment before, say, 7 and 8 years old. It brings documentation related to this, and someone thinks that this documentation is meaningful, something was really wrong, the ruling is not fully clear. Will the counseling be able to help such a person and say: put this, this and this, put it in an envelope, give you an address, send it there? Because it's clou, it's about keeping this system shut down. Yes or no? And one more question about it... [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: Sorry, if I may respond as soon as possible...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u335	Please. [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u336	It's kind of in the catalogue related to this witnessing. Yes? [[There it is.]] There's advice here, but this advice may be that someone will simply specify what else should be added to the envelope, as you pointed out by the senator, and to what address, to which entity to send.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u337	One more question, if you don't mind, 'cause now it's so important... This advice is made up of such an aid card, it's kind of like reporting. It happens a lot... Why am I talking about this? Because some of the advice described here is already given to us in parliamentary and senatorial offices. [[Of course.]] Well, that's how citizens' help is being provided. The question is, what if the person who asks for help has a conflict with, in a sense, the employer of this counseling person, the old lady, the mayor, the mayor of the city? There are often such cases and they require intervention. It is much easier for us to intervene because we are completely independent. What should such a person do, especially the one who is not independent, in the sense that he is not a lawyer or a lawyer, but only I'm just saying, why don't you just give advice in civil counseling? How can we guarantee her independence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u338	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u339	As I understand it, you mean the situation of the senator, that the person who, for example, is an employee of the old age, at the same time offers his services as a citizen's counseling...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u340	It does not have to be an employee, it is enough that it lives in this district or municipality and must in some sense participate, maybe not in a conflict, but in a dispute in which a private person, a citizen is against an office, against an institution which has a much wider range than that private person. These are very common things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u341	Here is a standard to which, I say, we are going, whether we are going to achieve, namely that a person who provides services related to civic guidance should show some independence, as must the independence of lawyers or legal advisers who provide legal advice. Therefore, among the requirements addressed to non-governmental organisations involved in civic guidance and which will apply for a point, there are also elements such as ethical behaviour. or to give the guarantee the proper performance of these duties. Accordingly, such a person should, in harmony with his conscience, try to provide such help. And if she thinks that this is beyond her competence, she is always obliged to inform you at which other point it is possible to obtain appropriate information or appropriate advice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u342	Thank you, Minister. [[Me too.]] Oh, one more question, Senator Comfort. I'm sorry. It was written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u343	Well, I'm afraid Senator Frost has escaped... Because when I heard this data, that in the last three years of this bill's operation, one piece of advice cost on average... I don't remember, 350 zł, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Office of the President of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: These were the data of the Supreme Chamber of Control.]] Well, yeah, that's what I'm talking about, I'm not saying it's your data. And when I heard it wasn't a waste... Well, I would like to congratulate you, because even in good law firms 350 PLN for one advice, let's say an hour, this is already such a very European rate. So if this isn't waste, then I don't know what waste is. Madam, Madam Minister, in answer to the question of what this civic counseling will be... There used to be socialist democracy, adjectives like that, civic counseling... I'm the one who'd like to know. 'Cause the minister said it was gonna be some kind of financial problem, if anybody has, and it's gonna be so much bigger... Well, I really know tax advisors, I've worked with tax advisors, with people who do finance, and they really are very educated people. If you think 70 hours is enough, then I'm interested in how it's gonna work. Bank law is, oh, it's actually a simple matter, you can learn in 70 hours too. Or tenant law. Well, that's a very complicated area, too. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'd like to hear it because I didn't hear from the Minister... And as you asked Senator Czerwiński, I didn't really hear that answer either. I'd like you to give me two concrete examples of mediation. What will be mediation on if the law rules out these most important mediations, what did you just talk about? Tell me to what extent you imagine there will be mediation, such an example of life. And the other. Well, there's a subject, except that you have to tape the envelope and send it, and put a stamp on it, and what you put in the envelope... I would like you to give me an example of some civic counsel, some advice that cannot be given by a lawyer or legal counsel, that is, with a higher education, or even a little higher, and which someone else can give, who has been trained for 70 hours. Are you able to give a concrete example of life?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u344	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As regards the first issue, concerning the scope of mediation, here local governments, both lawyers and lawyers, indicated... Therefore, full mediation will only apply from 1 January 2020 as part of this free advice as a mandatory element. It will be able to deal with any mediation case, but it is the mediation at the pre-trial stage. Therefore, it could be mediation in civil matters, it could be mediation in family matters... [[Yes?]] ...but the idea is that this is mediation before legal proceedings are opened, before administrative proceedings are opened. As for the Senator's second question, an example of advice that can't be given by a lawyer or counsel... In the first place, the state is depreciating the whole idea of civic guidance, referring to a 70-hour course and noticing that one of the requirements that an advisor must meet is also having a higher education. Non-governmental organisations wishing to provide civic guidance will in fact not risk giving such advice by a person who is completely incompetent. The Ministry of Justice, when carrying out studies on civic guidance, noted that organisations use the services offered by persons, firstly, who have a university education and secondly, who are indeed professionals in some field. However, it is right here that Senator Frost pointed out that civic counseling does not necessarily have to rely on legal issues, because it can also rely on, for example. to provide some psychological support to a person who is seeking advice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u346	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State of the President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski will be the first to speak. There you go. [[We're gonna...]] They switched. [[Yes.]] Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I did not hear a specific answer to my questions. I have asked the Minister several times, and at the committee meeting, and here, an example of civic advice which he cannot, I stress: he cannot, give a lawyer or legal counsel. If the Minister agrees with me that this may be psychological advice, I am surprised that this answer must have been given by the Senator rapporteur. I would like to know how much this man after 70 hours of training will be better than people who have education and practice in talking to people who are in trouble. After all, in the case of a lawyer and legal counsel, a part of the professional training is talking to people who are being wronged. And if this man had... I do not know why the Minister emphasized that there would be this requirement of higher education. Well, if you were to write down that without 70-hour training, it could be a man who has a degree in psychology, it would seem logical. That is the thought I lacked today in statements and construction, in defence of this law, which, in my opinion, is only a redirection of money to my own. This is the whole idea of this law, which, as I said in my previous term of office, is already making public money completely distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u348	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rulewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When the President announced the need to extend the subjective bill, perhaps even the one concerned, I was full of... first, I was open to it, second, I applauded, not only out of respect for the head of state, but also for the very idea which, as you know, was introduced when the coalition government was operating, probably in 2014. I'm honored to see how it works in the field myself. Indeed, this institution is needed, but consultation with lawyers has led to some conclusions. It is true that there are no queues, although these are cities of the Inowroclaw type, but it is also true, Minister, that you make a bad diagnosis, even when you use the NIK report. I think it's due to the failure of Dudapońc actions. At the beginning of his term of office, the President announced that it was possible to address the President with various matters. However, people, citizens, come to me and say or say that the President can only provide legal assistance. Another cannot, and rightly so, because the constitution says that all state authorities can act only in the field of law. Therefore, as if the transfer of what Mr Dudapomoc did not succeed in this action was, unfortunately, a provision in this act, in the form of nonchalance, because... this Dudapoc is taking the form of civil counseling here. The whole definition of this counseling is written in half a page. It's so unclear that you admit that you've misled the High House a little bit here, because both the Attorney General and the local authorities don't really know how to define this civic guidance, and you said that she explained it. But what is really more important than this counseling is what is the subject here, that is, who is to give this counseling. To be honest, I'm the first candidate for civic counseling, because I have some experience there, and age is going to encourage that too. Of course, if I weren't a Member or a Senator, which isn't ruled out here. This is not excluded here, but also a Member and a Senator can provide civic guidance. They pay, no responsibility, because it's just advice, psychological support or I don't know what it is. The position of a Member, even if his term of office has passed, seems to be most appropriate here. Well, the MP, the councilman, the former mayor, the former president. I'm sure he'll be very supportive. Of course, I would ask that this institution be deleted at all as indeterminate, but in our laws there are many legal entities that are dead and there are no conflicts in this regard. However, this will undoubtedly result in costs. The Minister of the President's Office claims that the terms and conditions of the organizations or this bill are good enough for them to meet... Well, it's going to be kind of equal legal counsel, lawyers, or other people with legal background. And that's not true, because the bill says you have to have a higher education. No, e.g. cosmetologist And then, eventually, the course and support of non-governmental organizations that are looking for people to run it, are willing to take them off the street. So this is a typical form of support for these organizations in an incompetent way. But if it's done incompetently and can be dead, and the NIK indicates You've just recounted the materials. The fact that counseling by lawyers, not by NGOs, is more successful is not to tear down our garments. But I have to tear up the robes, because without respect for the costs of mediation... Mediation is not a popular form in Poland, it is true. And for this reason, I would support the President, who, as it were, legally imposes an identity between the costs of this institution and the charges. Because good mediation... In general, good guidance will then be effective and popular if it is effective. Similarly, mediation If it's effective. I don't know where you got the data, Minister. I was a mediator's client. 70 PLN is the mediator's registration fee. He hasn't done anything yet, but he's already got 70 zlotys to pay. The average hourly rate is PLN 200. 2 hours is a time that may indicate that mediation will succeed, and the mediator generally demands so much. This is 400 PLN. So we already have almost 500 zlotys of costs in case of mediation. Okay, but mediation in maintenance matters is quite simple, and mediation in property matters, as you admit... Well, these are the volumes of documentation. I've just been asked to intervene in such a case. And I don't think I'd be able to do that kind of mediation alone within 100 working hours of a senator's office. And people turn to us. Senator Czerwiński confirms that people turn to the offices for guidance... for more than counseling, for help. [[That's why it'll be easier. I support it, it's a very good bill.]] I do not support this because I want to carry out the duties imposed on me by the regulations and laws on the rights and obligations of the Member and the Senator. I'm just questioning this bill. In addition, Senator Pociej was right to say that since we already have an educated, proven mediation institution sa, there are mediators' associations It is not known why an elder should create a new mediation institution in the form of these free advices, and not direct it all to existing mediators. The bill would, I assure you, be cheaper and more beneficial to the citizen. To this third subjective extension, few people pay attention. Tutorials, education... tutorials? Make a guide is costing tens of thousands of zlotys. It's gonna be free, it's gonna be distribution, competitive, as I understand it, against the Internet. This direction of counseling is right, but it costs a lot. There's also the question of the costs that the government doesn't agree with, Minister. The local authorities get to run the office for the very running of the office, not for the assistance of 2 thousand PLN per year. It so happens that local governments are very economical, use loose rooms, and it doesn't really cost anything. For this reason, an increase in this scope is the extension, the subject matter and the subject matter, and thus the addition of mediation, which must take place under different conditions, not in such a simple, small room where people are accepted and provided one-off services... Other conditions must be met for such a long-term process. There must be a law firm that will notify those persons subject to mediation, there must be registers. Let's be honest: this must be a secretariat capable of handling a large number of mediations. This means that... the local governments are right when they say that PLN 2,000 for the maintenance of the office and its infrastructure is far too small a sum, especially if this range increases. So, Minister, I am facing this problem, and I am in favour of honoring the President, because she is in line with the social interest. Indeed, it may unblock the need for courts, the need for commercial decisions, but there must be a balance between benefits, costs, expenditures, so that it doesn't become inflatable, devalued, and that people... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done. ...they were aware and satisfied with the effectiveness of these activities, not just with the office of such an institution. And that's not here. And finally, Minister, I will say that the probabilities of such an event were the intervention offices of the "Solidarity" which provided legal assistance on the basis of legal advisers, but their advantage was the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. That the law was followed by a force which forced the application of that law. And let us look for such a solution, so that our legal state is a reality, not just a constitutional record or a provision in this law, a provision on civil counseling. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u350	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Mr. Senator's making amends, although he didn't say anything about it. There you go. The discussion is closed. [[Voice in the room: This has to be addressed to the committee.]] As Senator Rulewski has tabled amendments, these are new legislative proposals, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I remind the senators that we will proceed tomorrow to consider item five of the agenda, the Act establishing the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. I remind the senators that we will proceed tomorrow to consider item six of the agenda, the Act amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care in labour camps by the Third Rzesza and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Law on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of public-funded health care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 866 and the committee report In print No 866 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 15 June 2018 amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Law on personal income tax and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The Sejm passed a bill based on the submission of the Senate, which on 15 November 2017 introduced a draft law to the Sejm and authorised Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in the work on the project. The aim of the Act is to give people deported to forced labour additional powers related to health care and social care. Firstly, the right to benefit outside the order of health care and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, secondly, the right to obtain outpatient specialist services without referring health insurance to a doctor, thirdly, the right of priority to environmental social protection, including the right to a place in a social assistance home. The Act states that assistance to persons deported to forced labour may also be provided by the local government and in this respect indicates assistance related to communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. The Act introduces the card of a deportee who confirms the right to exercise the powers conferred by the amendment. Other changes are a consequence of the granting of new powers to persons deported to forced labour and the introduction of the card of the person deported. These are: a change in the title and scope of this Law on the provision of financial services for persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of 31 May 1996; a technical and editorial amendment to the provision concerning the exemption from income tax for the provision of monetary services to persons deported; a transitional provision for the issue of legitimacy. The course of legislative work. Five additional amendments to the draft submitted by the Senate were tabled during the second reading at the Sejm meeting. All amendments were accepted by the Sejm at third reading. The amendments postponed the date of entry into force of the Act from 14 days from the date of publication on 1 January 2019, indicated the personal data that would include the card of the person deported, and introduced other amendments aimed at ordering and clarifying the provisions of the Act. The amendments tabled were adopted at the third reading of the project. High Senate, the powers conferred by the law are similar to those currently held by combatants, victims of repression of the war and post-war period, anti-communist opposition activists, people being oppressed for political reasons. The Commission considered the law at its meeting on 3 July 2018. During the committee's work, Senator Czerwiński presented the purpose and subject of the bill, which I also tried to present. Mr Zielenecki then presented the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft law and the justification for the amendments adopted by the Sejm, in particular regarding the extension of the date of entry into force of the Act as at 1 January 2019. It indicated that, as of 1 January 2019, it was planned to enter into force of a substantial reform of the veteran law, which gives equivalent powers in the field of health care to other groups of persons being repressed. This will allow for one major information action in the media. This amendment is also necessary in order to carry out technical operations related to the issuance of legitimacy enabling the beneficiaries of the Act to exercise new powers. In turn, Senator Czerwiński, during the discussion, considered that the delay in the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2019 was not justified, mainly because a group of deportees were sufficiently informed about the work on the project and expected to complete this work as soon as possible. Senator Czerwiński proposed such a change of art. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By sharing the argument that it is necessary to provide the right time to issue a card, Senator Czerwiński proposed to add a paragraph. Article 3 Four laws. That paragraph would provide that the legitimacy of a person deported to forced labour or established in a labour camp by the Third Reich or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics shall be issued within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. These 2 amendments were accepted by a government representative, Minister Zielenecki, and were unanimously accepted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u352	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Zielenecki is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Radziwill. There you go. Mr. Minister, I'd like to see you on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u353	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Since this is a senate initiative, it may be a little awkward that I will ask this question, but among these privileges, which of course need to be supported as much as possible, there is one who is awarded to the next group... Here it is probably a relatively small group. But in my opinion, there is a false idea at the basis of this privilege that referral from a doctor of first contact to a specialist is a difficulty, and this is an unreasonable obstacle, from which those whom we wish to treat in a particularly beneficial way should be exempted. Didn't the Minister of Health make a separate statement on this matter? However, it should be recalled that referral to a doctor of the first contact doctor is intended to implement the principle of coordination of patient care. And here we're talking about people who are usually advanced in age, often with multi-morbidity. And I personally believe that such self-use without referral, without restrictions on guidance in specialist doctors can result in problems for these patients, e.g. taking medicines that are not coordinated with each other, with a risk of interaction and various problems, etc., etc. Could the Minister refer to this problem that I have reported, for example? recently during work on a law granting similar rights to persons with disabilities to a significant extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u354	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Surely an important element to be taken into account is the number of people to whom these new solutions are addressed. We have tried to estimate the number of potential beneficiaries of these solutions during parliamentary work. The persons who have the status of a person deported to forced labour established by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons are about 71 thousand. We assume that not all people will take the trouble of obtaining this new card, which is expected to be issued by the law discussed today. We were hoping that about 60,000 people in this group would apply for this new status. That's one thing. The second element, Mr. Senator, also pointed out, is that we have more such groups, such categories of insured persons, because that's how we have to look at these types of special rights. Special, that is to say, exceptional powers. These are, of course, persons with disabilities and the Act of 9 May 2018 which granted such special powers But I would stress: people with disabilities to a large extent, because this is the circle of addressees of this law, including similar solutions. Such groups, of course. We have more, these are the combatants, these are the invalids of war, the military, these are the people being repressed because of the opposition activity within the democratic opposition. So we look at these solutions in this context as solutions which in a sense balance the powers of people deported to forced labour with those of other categories of persons classified as veterans. According to the Constitution, the Polish state should such people, veterans fighting for freedom, for independence, simply privileged and it can be said that these solutions fit into this constitutional context. Yeah, that's what I'd say. I'm not a doctor, so I don't want to discuss these medical aspects here. As we confront this overall number of people benefiting from such specific powers for access to public-funded health benefits with the overall number of insured persons in the general health insurance scheme, we can say that this is not a large group. I would like to remind you that over 30 million citizens in Poland will certainly benefit from health benefits financed by public funds, whether under the status of insured persons or under other ways of accessing this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u356	Thank you. Are there any further questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czerwiński is speaking. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is about Senator Radziwill's question. I have here a copy of the letter of the Minister of Health dated 31 August 2017. I would like to quote just a passage from:.I would like to say first of all that I do not object to the proposal in the draft law to grant people deported to forced labour and the special rights of access to healthcare provided in the labour camps of the Third Reich. [[I wonder who signed it.]] Signed: Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have absolute confidence in Minister Konstanty Radziwiłłł. [[Applause]] And now maybe a little more serious, because the subject is serious. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of this year's work on this bill. It's been a long time, but it's a good thing we've come to the end. First of all, I would like to thank the Government and Mr Zielenecki personally for his favour in the work on this law. The fact that the government, firstly, has improved this text, of course, through the amendments made by the Sejm, secondly, and this is probably the most important, declares a far-reaching cooperation in the implementation of this law, mainly about the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. This is a very important issue. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, owe these people, people deported to forced labor in the Third Reich, to camps in the Soviet Union. We should just... We owe them respect. And these people don't really want too much, they don't even want any more money, financial gratification, they just want to get to a doctor, a specialist at the end of their lives without a queue. And we should give them that. And there's very little left, 71,000. That's what it's estimated, but these people leave every day because biology has rights. That is why I thank the government once again for their favor. On the other hand, of course, I wouldn't be myself if I didn't ask for a follow-up. This law after its entry into force will require cooperation, cooperation of both eligible persons... They will be represented mainly by the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich, this association has already declared far-reaching help in collecting applications and then in sending them to the Veterans' Office. Of course, the office can do the same by minimizing costs, distributing IDs, that is, handing them over to the appropriate branch, and volunteers from this branch will hand out these ID cards to eligible persons. It is also important that the application form appears on the website as soon as possible, so that it can be consummated and can already be completed. This bill is expected by this environment. Most potential beneficiaries know about this law, simply waiting to be realized. I think it is indicated here that the compromise vacatio legis is the date of entry into force of the Act on 30 October, on the one hand it goes against the expectations of the group to which this law is addressed, and on the other hand it will give more than 3 months and simply the possibility of practical preparation for the implementation of this law, i.e. will give time simply for technical and organisational activities, because this case will, of course, be for the office a certain organizational and technical effort. Such 3-month vacathio legis is a standard solution in such laws, i.e. if you want us to give something to the authorized persons, some ID or a certificate. And the last point that we did not raise in the course of the discussion, either in the Seym or in the Senate, when we reported this project. Namely, this law also has some international significance. We as a country, as Poland, write that our country, our nation, is entitled to compensation and reparations for World War II, and rightly, very rightly. On the other hand, we also show to external factors that we to these citizens, who were not oppressed because of the Polish state, were murdered, were exploited, e.g. on forced robots, we provide what we can provide. This bill is such proof that we care about our citizens, who were victims of World War II, victims of so many. But at the same time, we have a moral right to seek that other states, the perpetrators of these crimes simply stand in the truth and at least morally admit us right. I think this is a very important aspect of this bill. Once again I appeal to the government, to the Veterans' Office for swift enforcement and of course to pass the law, so-called. a large novel, which gives these people deported to forced labor additional powers, already more material, from the material sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u358	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 868 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 868 A and 868 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u359	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On 20 June 2018, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered the Act adopted by the Sejm on 15 June 2018. After a brief discussion... the Minister, because this is a government law, submitted and submitted in a very detailed manner a draft law and the purpose of the bill. Therefore, after a very brief discussion, in the absence of comments by the senators and in the absence of amendments, the committee has voted on the bill and is proposing to the High House that the High Senate adopt this law without amendments. In one sentence, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, as far as the purpose of the Act is concerned, these new solutions serve to make the transport of sensitive goods more effective and better monitored, including. we include motor fuels, fuel fuels, lubricating oils, ethyl alcohol, contaminated ethyl alcohol and tobacco droughts. This is the purpose of the proposed resolution. Once again, on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u360	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission discussed the draft in a substantive manner, i.e. without political discussion, of a political nature. The position of the Ministry of Finance was presented by Minister Piotr Walczak. The present representatives of the fuel industry supported the solutions presented, also the employers' union supported the project presented. Following a vote in which 5 senators voted in favour, no one abstained and no one was Against, recommends the High House to adopt the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u362	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go. Which Senator of the rapporteur? [[Senator Romanchuk.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u363	Senator, first of all, I would like to know if there were representatives of manufacturers of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices at the committee meeting. Secondly, I would like to ask what their position was if, of course, they were present. Thirdly, I would like to know whether the cost of implementing the law has been reported. Location devices can be used if the company has them. She'll get free software then. What if there isn't? How many companies don't have that? You did not say in your report that we are covering this system with a huge new group of manufacturers and distributors of medical devices and devices. Recently we had a joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health, where we looked at the medical device market. Turns out it's a huge industry. There is a very large group of such products. It's a big deal, a billion-dollar deal. There's a multi-billion-dollar turnover. So it's not a slight change. I would ask you to tell me how these issues were presented at the committee meeting and what the conclusions were.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u364	Please respond, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as the food industry is concerned... That's what you called them. Yes? [[Medical and medical devices.]] Sorry, medical devices. They obviously didn't speak because they weren't at the meeting, so I can't say anything about it. As far as costs are concerned, the Act assumes that... According to the statutory definition of the locator, this is a telecommunications device, a terminal device using satellite positioning technology and data transmission, also on a mobile phone, where the software provided free of charge by the head of the National Tax Administration was installed. It will be free of charge, free of charge. [[Thank you. Are there any further...]] [[The national administration has to buy it, and I'm asking about the costs.]] I cannot answer the question of how much it will cost and what costs the national administration will incur. However, the equipment will be free of charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u366	The question is, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u367	Question for the senator. I believe that all the solutions are, of course, legitimate. The main charge referred to penalties, the fact that the law provides for high penalties. Did you discuss the level of penalties, the fact that they were so huge, at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! At the meeting of the committee from which I report, sanctions were not discussed. I think you mean possible penalties imposed on carriers. It's $10,000 and $7.5,000. This topic was not raised. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u369	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? The Minister would like to ask you another question? [[I'm gonna ask the Minister a question.]] Good. No questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. We have Minister Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Radziwill, and then Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in connection with a brief exchange of thoughts just now, I would like to make sure... The Senator rapporteur, Mr Romanczuk, mentioned the categories of products that are covered by this monitoring and did not mention medicines, medicinal products and medical devices. Well, first of all, I'd like to make sure that it includes, because to my knowledge it involves... Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Minister nods his head. And it should be in the transcript that the Minister confirmed. Therefore, I would just like to express my joy that this is the case. And I don't share the concern about the level of punishment, because I note that... And here I'm just asking you to confirm that this is about medicinal products from so-called. It's a banned list, not all of them. Right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Yes.]] So... So these are the ones that disappear from Poland and are not available to patients That's what I'm going to say in such a human language. Therefore, I do not share Senator Flork's concern about the level of penalties for this, either, because it seems that the practice that reaches probably is because we do not know exactly what it is. Approximately PLN 2 billion, and in any case certainly more than PLN 1 billion, and translates into the fact that drugs are simply not in pharmacies, should be hunted with all severity. We haven't been able to do it so far. So if this solution is a step in this direction, then I am merely expressing joy. And once again, I'm going to ask you to confirm that this is about medicinal products and medical devices, but only those on this list that are banned, that is, disappearing from pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u371	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u372	Yes, I confirm everything the Minister said, which is precisely those medical devices that were included in the transport monitoring system in the previous amendment. Here these solutions were introduced under the influence of the Ministry of Health, so that the drugs that are on this prohibited list and which disappeared from Poland were covered by the monitoring system. And these are just the drugs, not the usual ones, which are, you can say, in the ordinary course of trade. These restrictions are not covered by these restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u373	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u374	Yes. In the case of medical devices, is there really a group of such devices which are listed as prohibited for export? If so, what group is it? I'm asking because Minister Radziwiłł said it was only a certain amount of these medical devices... I want to make sure of that. And the second question, indeed, about the costs. How much will the National Tax Administration have to spend on this part of the monitoring to carry out these new duties?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u375	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u376	Just so we're clear here... Of course, today's law introduces a monitoring system through the GPS system, and this is actually the third amendment, the third approach. In the first approach we had a reporting system based on... or a road transport monitoring system. In the second place, we added this to railway solutions along with the addition of drug related issues. And now we have a third approach, and here it really is that we say that actually what is important is the data transmission system, the geolocation system as the one that complements the information. And under this system, various goods are monitored, including. medications that are included on the list of those drugs that are banned from the country. This is because we have been dealing, as I understand, with some critical in terms of the safety of Poles, the export of drugs which should not be exported. And in that sense, It's just... In fact, it is worth remembering that this solution to include only drugs from this list is not a solution from this present law, but from the previous one. That's what we're talking about, geolocation. But of course it's worth... [[Minister, I didn't ask about the meds. I asked about the medical devices.]] Yeah, that's... These are in the previous... this amendment we do not introduce any new goods on the list of goods subject to monitoring. Medical devices or medicines are those goods which have already been subject to the duty to monitor transport in the previous amendment. And so much in the sense that there are no changes in the scope of this law anymore. As far as costs are concerned, in the OSR we have 5 million PLN as a one-off cost resulting from the fact that most of the companies with which we are discussing, dialogue, and technical dialogue, in fact already have solutions for the monitoring system. And all you have to do is build a system to download data and support... Senator Romanczuk pointed out here that this is precisely the cost for the Ministry of Finance to make this free application for those companies that do not use their own professional, professional systems available That's 5 million PLN. This is the total cost that this bill provides for, a one-off cost. And that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u377	Mr. Marshal wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u378	I wanted to ask you about a case that's already been cleared. I understand that when I heard The term "prohibited medical devices' has been common in the case of products for which export is prohibited.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u379	Yeah, yeah. That's the correct interpretation. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u380	Thank you. Are there any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Plant Protection Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 869 and the report of the Commission In print No 869 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u381	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 27 June 2018 examined the Law amending the Plant Protection Act and certain other laws. The main objectives of the amendment to the Act are to simplify and shorten the administrative procedures for the activities of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection carried out under the Law of 18 December 2003 on Plant Protection and the Act of 25 June 2009 on organic farming; to facilitate international trade in plant material; to eliminate problems arising during the border phytosanitary inspection of wood packaging materials; to regulate the rules of cooperation of the State Plant Protection and Seeding Inspection with other administrative units, in particular the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, in order to ensure greater efficiency of this cooperation; to introduce changes in the functioning of the integrated plant production system resulting from the experience gained in the implementation of the Law of 8 March 2013 on plant protection products; to eliminate interpretation doubts arising in the application of the Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. The bill at the committee meeting didn't give rise to any discussion. It was adopted unanimously with 2 amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. The amendments are of a more precise nature. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, please adopt this law together with 2 amendments. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u382	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Szymon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the joint consideration of items 10 and 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws; the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection Inspection and some other laws. The texts of the laws are contained in prints No 896 and No 897 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 896 A and No 897 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the Act on the amendment of the Waste Act and some other laws adopted by the Sejm on 5 July 2018. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on July 6. The Commission considered this draft law on 9 July this year. A number of discussions were held during the meeting. 16 amendments to this Act have been adopted, which introduces amendments implementing in particular the demands of local governments of voivodships to address the problem of waste dumping in places not intended for this purpose and in places where waste management activities have not been completed in accordance with the applicable legislation. The aim of the Act is also to introduce solutions to prevent fires of accumulated waste, which recently As we're seeing, it's getting pretty intense. This amendment, in addition to the amendment of the Waste Act of 14 December 2012, also amends the laws on the State Fire Department, on road transport, on road traffic law, on environmental protection law. I would also like to quote here a few arguments that this law, submitted by the Ministry of the Environment, essentially regulates all issues relating to inappropriate or non-legal waste management. It also eliminates the so-called. The grey zone, which contributes to the fact that waste management is not really an economy, but an activity that significantly hampers the activities of all those entrepreneurs who, in fulfilling all the requirements and rigours of the law, are burdened with the right burden. During the discussion there were also issues related to whether this law is sometimes not too restrictive. There is no way today that waste management does not create some administrative difficulties, because keeping proper records, running the economy on the basis of all the rules relating to the adoption of different waste in Poland must take into account all these rigors, which will result in Poland, in short, not being the central place of depositing waste, but in a country that will develop in a sustainable manner and will also take into account all aspects resulting in environmental care and waste has a significant impact on this environment. As rapporteur, I would like to submit a report to the High Senate and recommend that the 16 amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u384	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee on the Act amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and some other laws. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Minister, with the team! Dear Chief Environmental Inspector, I have the great honour and pleasure to present a report by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on 5 July 2018 on the Act amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and other laws. The Commission was sitting yesterday. What is rare, during the committee meeting, all the amendments, and there were 9 of them, and the draft was adopted unanimously. All present senators voted in favour of the amendments tabled, including the corrective amendments, and the draft. The same was true in the Sejm, where 423 Members, with one vote of opposition I'm sure it was a mistake. And no one held back, voted in favour of this project. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this is a very expected bill. For many years, we have observed an increase in the tasks of the Environmental Protection Inspections, and unfortunately, the measures have not followed. The resources were only to be equipped with laboratories, but also in insufficient amounts. It has often been said during the discussions in recent weeks that the Environmental Protection Inspection is malfunctioning, that it is functioning with large staff shortages. I do not agree, because these staff shortages did not affect the quality of the work of the provincial inspectors and the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor. This law gives rise to a certain remodelling and strengthening of the control system carried out by the Environmental Protection Inspection. I'll give you a few of these major changes. Namely, there will be a 24-hour work system, but it should not be understood that from the date of the entry into force of the Act all employees of the WYŚ will work in a three-shift system. It will be as necessary. This is the first case. The second issue of staff reinforcement, i.e. increasing the number of employees, but also increasing their salaries, i.e. long-awaited increases, certainly since 1991, when the previous Environmental Inspection Act came into force. There will be reinforcement of staff, which will result in the possibility of increasing the number of inspections, as well as the number of tests in laboratories. Another change is the assignment of the laboratories of the provincial environmental inspectors to the central laboratory in the main inspector. Intervention checks may be carried out. Until now, checks could only take place 7 days after the notification. In principle, these checks were attempted to be carried out on an ad hoc basis, but in their case there were serious difficulties because the establishments appealed and were practically impossible to control. They're gonna be possible right now. It'll be possible to rehearse. There will also be planned checks, but they will cover more documentaries or technological processes. And the possibility of intervention control is precisely what these services expected. There will be extended permissions to stop cars, licenses, participation of unmanned aircraft in data collection, collection of evidence during these checks. The proper procedures will be prepared for this. Also, which is extremely important, it will be possible for voivodship environmental inspectors to cease their activities with immediate feasibility. For all these tasks, the Environmental Protection Inspections will be assisted by police, fire department and other institutions. The competence of the Chief Environmental Inspector will be enhanced, which will allow for coordination of actions. This is very valuable especially in the case of environmental effects affecting not one voivodship, but several voivodships. Then this central coordination will facilitate action. I think these are the most important things. As the discussion was short and everyone unanimously supported the bill, I ask the High House to adopt a law amending the Environmental Inspection Act and some other laws. I may add what other laws concern the amendment: the Forest Law; the Law on Road Traffic; the Law on Environmental Protection; the Act of 2005 on Recycling of End-of-Life Vehicles; the Act of 2007 on International Movement of Waste; the Act of 2008 on the Sharing of Environmental Information and Protection, Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments; the Law on Battery and Battery; the Law on Waste; the Law on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management; the Law on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on Certain fluorinated greenhouse gases; the Act on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment; the Act on Access to Genetic Resources and Sharing the Benefits of Usage; the Law on Water Law; the Law on Entrepreneurs. When I exchange all these laws... We see the wide range of activities of the State Environmental Protection Inspection. I think this is one of the most important environmental services. I wish all the workers I greet from this place that, after these changes, work equally well for the benefit of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u386	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The draft laws were submitted by the Government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Henryk Kowalczyk with us, whom I very much welcome. Would the Minister like to speak on these laws? You're welcome, Minister. I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u387	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! By submitting this package 2 sets Laws on Waste and Environmental Protection Inspections We want to put waste management in order. This legislative system has been a little thinner many years ago, and hence. a very common phenomenon which at the moment has very bad effects, namely the collection of waste by dishonest entrepreneurs and the abandonment of such waste. This problem is on the shoulders of the local government. And often, even before leaving, there are fires, and this is a much bigger problem, because, of course, in addition to the trouble for self-government, there are great damage to the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the system, which has been in operation so far, had many gaps allowing for this type of activity, we have proposed to put this sphere in order, i.e. to introduce in the Waste Act. the conditions for the collection of such waste. First of all, it is about putting a guarantee deposit on the collected waste so that, after possible waste is dumped, local authorities have financial resources for the management of the waste. Another element of the changes is the reduction of waste disposal time, their storage time from 3 years to 1 year. Further: clarification of the issue of waste collection permits, inter alia. by introducing mandatory consideration of the opinion of the Environmental Protection and State Fire Control Inspections. Another thing is the transfer of the right to permit waste management in the case of storage sites where the bulk of waste stored during the year is more than 3000 t, higher level instance From the old man to the marshal. This is also the introduction of restrictions on the introduction of waste from abroad. We are simply proposing that the law prohibit the introduction of municipal waste or municipal waste from the treatment of municipal waste. There is, of course, the possibility of importing waste from abroad, but those that are used to recover secondary raw materials. The scrap is waste, but it is also valuable secondary raw material. This Waste Act, this change, should provide a much tighter waste collection system and better waste management. In order for this law to be properly implemented, we have also presented a second project, a draft reform of the Environmental Protection Inspections. Senator Alicia Hare spoke very carefully about this project, so I will not repeat these arguments. I think that these laws are very necessary especially in the current situation, when the problem of waste collection has indeed become a very important problem. It is also a problem that creates many dangers, and hence the urgency of this government project. We wanted this project to be adopted by Parliament, both the Sejm and the Senate, even before parliamentary holidays, hence the urgency of government and parliamentary work. I would like to thank all of you very much for your very constructive discussion at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Local Government. I would also like to thank you for the constructive examination of the amendments, both of which were the majority and of the few substantive ones. We wanted to listen to the businessmen's voice. not only to tighten up security, but to ensure that, where it is not necessary, these rigors are not increased to unnecessary size. Thank you very much for supporting this proposal at committee meetings for unanimous adoption of both drafts and amendments. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Of course, I am counting on the Senate to accept both projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u388	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm in favour of this bill. Of course, we voted this out at the committee meeting yesterday. But in the course of the discussion, perhaps one matter was missing, which would still be worth adding in this bill. It is a matter of title to the ground. The holder is listed, i.e. owner, perpetual user, user. We listened to entrepreneurs who also mentioned the tenant. So, if there were no obstacles, then I think it would be possible to make such a minor amendment. It seems that the Minister was in favour of this amendment or something... [[Nation.]] Nation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, that's fine. Anyway, I've made a commitment to introduce myself. So I have an amendment to two articles. Namely for the article. Point 1 (5) which amends the wording of this Article. 41b, wherever the right of use is mentioned, perpetual use, lease, I suggest you add the word to the lease. This is the first amendment to the article. 1 point 5, amending Article. 41b. And the same is true of the article. 13, in which also one word is added to the customer. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] Let me just add that I don't think there's going to be a problem here, because the Committee on the Environment is going to be meeting on other laws, so that this could be introduced by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u390	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. The joint discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u391	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! As regards the proposed amendment, namely the extension of the title of ownership, or, in fact, the title of land use, of rent, I can say that yesterday at the committee meeting there was indeed a discussion on the subject, but the government's position on this amendment is negative. I'll explain why. Of course, in response to the original version of the government bill... I mean. It was property. Later this was extended and perpetual use was introduced. But after discussing with many entrepreneurs who reported such a problem that sometimes it is not possible to have ownership, we agreed to the lease title, but to the lease subject to certain conditions, namely the lease signed by the notarial act and the awareness of the joint and several liability of the land owner who leases the entrepreneur. Unfortunately, such things are not very possible to enter into the lease agreement. According to the Civil Code, a lease contract may be terminated virtually immediately, one day in advance. The lease agreement, in accordance with the Civil Code, may be terminated... there is a six-month notice period. So the lease agreement is much longer. The lease agreement, although the same may be true and the conditions seem similar, is a much weaker record. However, we want the attachment to the land of the businessman who is storing the waste to be much more permanent. Thus, our resignation only from exclusive ownership and the transfer to lease was agreed with the entrepreneurs. We would not want to ease this record further because of the possibility of a very soft link between the entrepreneur and this land, the possibility of rapid termination and difficulties in joint and several liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u392	Thank you, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, I ask the Commission of the Local Government and State Administration and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Waste. The text of the Act is contained in print No 875, and the committee report In print No 875 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 15 June this year. Act amending the Environmental Law and the Waste Act. At the meeting of the committee, the main objectives and objectives of this law were set out. The Act amends the Environmental Law by adding paragraphs. Article 5a 211. According to the provision added, if specific environmental considerations so warrant, the integrated authorisation will be able to specify For installations requiring an integrated permit The scope and way of monitoring emissions beyond the monitoring requirements set out in the so-called. BAT conclusions. Art. 211 environmental law indicates what requirements should be set by the competent authority when issuing an integrated permit. The law also states that this amendment will enable competent authorities, in justified cases, to impose measurement obligations on operators to a greater extent than the current rules do. In line with the proposed wording of the Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The law on waste is to be recognised or refused to recognise an object or substance as a by-product by a decision of the Marshal of the voivodship issued after consulting the Regional Environmental Inspector responsible for the place of manufacture of the object or substances referred to in that law. The procedure for issuing this decision is set out in the paragraphs added. It's a waste bill. It's a waste bill. Currently, the procedure for declaring an object or substance as a by-product in my opinion, in the opinion of the committee... Such a decision has not yet been required and this has also been the cause of certain perturbation in this regard. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also stresses that the procedure currently in force in this area could lead to a situation in which hazardous waste will be considered as a by-product, the treatment of which should be carried out with particular caution and with the provisions of waste management by authorised entities and adapted to such installations. As a consequence, such hazardous waste may be considered as a by-product through the silent consent of the marshal, hazardous waste may continue to be processed without application of environmental protection requirements, thereby endangering the health and life of citizens or endangering the environment. In the opinion of the projectors, in the opinion of the Ministry, this amendment to the provisions of the Waste Act will eliminate the risks identified here. The discussion also addressed the issue of an integrated authorisation for REACH products. The Ministry's explanations have also been made in this regard. I think that these issues will be raised in the course of the discussion. Two amendments were adopted at the committee meeting. Both amendments were submitted and accepted by the committee, and I therefore ask the High House to adopt this law with 2 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u394	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Yes.]] There you go. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u395	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth mentioning the genesis, the reasons for this law. This is a law that has been proposed by Members because of a problem that has been very much highlighted recently. Namely, this problem was dust emissions, but not only very different substances in the air. This was particularly evident in 2 cities, in Mielec and in Szczecin. The protests that were carried out there and the measurements of the contents of harmful substances in the air revealed problems that the marshals tried to resolve on the basis of tightening the rules on monitoring emissions of such substances from plants. It turned out that the attempt to impose continuous monitoring on the plant, which would continuously control the emissions, was an attempt that was incompatible with Polish law. The law provides that monitoring and measurement of emissions can take place on a cyclical basis, so that only the number of cycles could be determined, their frequency, but this could not be done on a continuous basis. Hence this expected change, which was formulated by Members so that continuous monitoring could be applied, in accordance with Polish law. While BAT conclusions mention that monitoring is carried out on a cyclical basis, the national legislator identifies the types of monitoring, BAT also allows stricter forms of monitoring in this conclusion. Us using this permission e.g. continuous monitoring... Members have proposed to enter the possibility of continuous monitoring. So the bill says that other types of monitoring can be used, not just cyclical ones. It's like one piece of this bill. The second element is the definition and mechanism for defining the by-product. In the current system, the by-product was reported by the entrepreneur and on the basis of silent consent recognized by the marshal. At this point in time these by-products, you can say, in quotes, we had so much that they sometimes had nothing to do with the by-product, and they were waste, sometimes hazardous waste, and they were subjected to various types of processing, sometimes burning. Therefore, this law proposes that the definition of by-product be defined not on the basis of silent consent, but on the basis of a decision, and a decision based on an examination of the Environmental Protection Inspections. The point is to be sure that this substance is actually completely harmless, that it is not waste, that it is tested. Then this decision is made consciously, not by default, as it has been so far, on the basis of silent consent. Hence, these 2 solutions, which were proposed in the parliamentary project, were recognised by the Minister of the Environment and we support these solutions. And we'd like to propose that they be accepted by the High Senate as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u396	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u397	Thank you very much. Minister, is there a list of establishments, companies that will be covered by this monitoring, or will this simply be created ad hoc in the voivodships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u398	There's no list of those bets. Such a decision will be taken by the Marshal of the voivodship, who establishes an integrated permit and, of course, issues such an integrated permit. And he's the one who can put a continuous monitoring obligation on this integrated permit. So at this point, we are really giving the Marshal of the province a tool, there is no obligation in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u399	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Gavyd.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u400	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. For installations requiring an integrated permit... We have already talked about this at the committee meeting. Whether under this permit an integrated energy company, producing waste in the form of smoke dust or slag, i.e. products that are the basis and are used on the one hand in construction processes and, on the other hand, in processes to reduce risks in coal mining... I'm talking about smoke dust, which is used to reduce fire hazards. Are these products from power plants from large power companies covered by this integrated permit?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u401	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! These products are, of course, covered by an integrated licence, but the definition of by-product or waste, i.e. this chapter, is covered by the Marshal's decision, is not part of an integrated licence. So now a separate decision will be required, which has actually been issued on the basis of silent consent. So if the power plant wants to do it again, I mean, he should do it again. It should be considered that the product in question is a by-product and not a waste product, i.e. it is not subject to the risk of waste management, it is only a by-product, and the road will be the following: YOU should do an examination of the product and submit an application to the marshal with the result of the investigation. The Marshal, having a positive test result, will have no doubt and will consider this product a by-product by decision. There was also a discussion about the timing of these decisions. I think there's no problem here either, the time we gave to accept this product, that's 6 months, so for 6 months it's easy to do a test and submit it to the marshal. In the absence of doubt, the Marshal will issue this decision, and he is obliged to issue it within 30 days and when the case is very complicated Up to 60 days, but I think that in cases like originating products... [[Waste.]] Waste, this is the senator who said waste... I don't want to say waste because it's by-products, not waste. I think that these decisions will be made very quickly, and that's why we only have an introduction that this is a by-product, if we already call it a by-product... we're sure that he, first of all, has undergone a procedure of examination by YOU, secondly, the decision was made consciously that it was not a silent consent.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u403	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 903, and the report of the committee In print No 903 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Health Committee, a report on the meeting of the Committee on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. The provisions of the proposed law contain solutions which were the result of an agreement between the Minister of Health and representatives of the National Medical Association's Agreement of 8 February 2018. One of the key changes is to accelerate the growth rate of financial expenditure, which is included in this law so that 6% gross domestic product was intended for health protection as early as 2024. In this way, more medical benefits can be financed in a shorter period. In addition, the Act states that a specialist doctor in an area not defined as a priority will receive a remuneration increased by PLN 600 per month and in an area defined as a priority PLN 700 per month. However, in order to receive such a higher basic salary, the doctor will have to submit a signed commitment to work in the country for a total of a minimum period of 2 years in the next 5 years following the completion of the specialization training. The measures necessary for raising the basic salary will be transferred to the specialist training entity based on an agreement concluded with the Minister of Health. In addition, the Act also regulates another important request for this agreement, namely the issue of remuneration in the case of specialist doctors. In the case of work with one provider I'm thinking of a public service provider. In the end, the remuneration is to be 6 000 750 PLN gross. Other issues that have been addressed in this Act are the issue of medical services in the case of residents or the question of the status of a public officer. During today's meeting of the Senate Committee on Health, various questions were asked to the Minister, and the Minister answered them thoroughly. It was, among other things. questions about the length of consultations, about the number of doctors leaving the country after graduation or after completion of specialization. Comments were made in the form of amendments submitted as a minority request. The Commission supported the proposal for a law without amendments. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u405	Thank you very much. And I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Health Commission, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal, I don't see anyone from... Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, at the committee meeting we discussed this very detailedly. It must be admitted that this is a kind of ad hoc law that implements the provisions of the agreement with residents, but the degree of implementation of these provisions deviates so far from what the medical people expect, and in particular what the residents expect, that on the basis of the "vox populi" principle, we cannot find it satisfactory. Therefore, as representatives of minorities, together with Senator Czarnobaj, we have allowed ourselves to propose 7 amendments to this law. If your marshal sees this as being used, I can justify it, but we discussed it extensively and justified it already at the meeting. They include both minor and important things, such as the protection of a doctor as a public official, and we propose that this should not apply only to public establishments, but also to public establishments. also in private offices, where we are healing, there was no one, our citizens Or the particularly difficult issue of on-call medical services and, in principle, the inability to do so in other hospital treatment facilities after a raise has been received by specialists. Not only in the opposition's opinion, but also in the opinion of the opposition. According to Senator Wojtyla, this can immediately, on this holiday, lead to a severe crisis in staffing in smaller towns. Perhaps this is not the problem in Warsaw, but in smaller and even in medium-sized cities, especially during the holiday period, the filling of all on-calls is extremely difficult and requires various treatments, requests, incentives and rising rates, without which the on-call schedule would be impossible at all. If we do not correct this record, we will cause that doctors will not be on duty in foreign units, which can immediately, even during this holiday, generate serious problems that will affect patients. And to all of us, I hope, that these perturbations in health care in no way affect the sick who entrust their health and their lives to us. I'm willing to answer questions if they do.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u407	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorised to present the position of the Government. We have Minister Sławomir Gadomski, Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u408	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would not like to repeat the reasons for the bill, especially due to the late time, so I will try to refer immediately to Senator Grodzki's statement. First of all, I would like to emphasise... It seems to me that during the meetings of the Sejm committees, and during the meeting of the Health Committee, there was a discussion about increasing the remuneration of doctors, resident doctors, a discussion about the patriotic supplement, a discussion about the protection due to a public officer, and I would like to point out and stress that this law serves primarily patients. Already last year's law on increasing health expenditure and guaranteeing a steady increase in expenditure on GDP... That was the guarantee. Now, in fact, in order to increase the availability of benefits in order to increase funding for the public health system, the government has decided that health measures will increase faster than planned last year, reaching 6% GDP in 2024 This primarily serves patients, it primarily serves to increase the availability of benefits. Of course, in the second place, it also serves to increase the salaries of medical staff or to improve the quality of work of doctors or resident doctors at all. I would also like to refer to the statement that this is far contrary to the assumptions set out in the agreement concluded with the Residents' Agreement on 8 February 2018. Please note that the agreement is not yet a law, the agreement really sets out a framework for which the Ministry of Health and the Residents' Agreement, and many other bodies involved in the consultation process have worked and clarified. It seems to me that the discussion on how to count the costs of health care, the inclusion of the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment, the inclusion of a gambling fund or the protection due to a public officer... I do not want to say that these are secondary issues, but they are merely due to some clarification of the provisions of the agreement with residents. In addition, I would like to mention two very important aspects of the law. One concerns the repeal of the provision enabling the worker to work more than 48 hours a week, i.e. so-called. the opt-out clause, starting from 2028. This serves above all the comfort of doctors' work and is intended to translate directly into the quality of health care provided and, as a result, to increase the health safety of patients. The second aspect, which I would like to point out, is a very significant one: a substantial extension of legal protection due to a public officer. Until now, doctors have only been entitled to this in situations where they have performed health benefits outside the workplace. This was mostly about the situation of accidents, events on the street, i.e. such, I would call it crisis situations. According to the proposed law, this protection is significantly extended, in particular to the places where the benefits are provided. These include both public entities and private entities which are financed by public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u409	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A law that increases expenditure, albeit in the years 2018-2020 relatively slightly, then slightly faster, to 6% the gross domestic product, whatever it may be in these years, should in theory be assessed positively. It would seem so. However, there is both an internal and a pan-European context here. Not further than this weekend at the session of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, accompanied by various events and attended by ambassadors and representatives of governments and parliaments, it turned out that most countries so-called. Former Western Europe has decided to increase its expenditure on health protection at a rate often close to 1% GDP per year because modern medicine costs a lot. I am no longer talking about the organisation of the system at the level of each country. Within 6 years, these expenditures will increase to around 4.7%. up to 6%. I am afraid that our distance to Western Europe or former Western Europe will increase rather than shrink, unfortunately. I am sending interested persons to Eurostat data. I went to the trouble of checking how Poland looks compared to other countries of the European Union, both old and new, when it comes to spending on the military, on education, on the judiciary and even on environmental protection. Everywhere, according to the status of an average rich country, we are located approximately in the middle of the group, and sometimes, for example. when it comes to education and the military In the top ten of Europe. But when it comes to spending on health care, as we all know, or at least those who are interested in the subject, we are definitely at the bottom of the table. I don't want to mention the countries that are behind us because it's quite sad for us. That's why it's good that we increase the effort. However, it is wrong that we increase them not only so slowly, but also in a way that residents perceive as not meeting the requirements of the agreement. I don't want to mention how much money goes to the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification and the Gambling Troubleshooting Fund. The environment of young doctors, but not only, takes this extremely negative. It would be good if doctors in Poland could work 168 hours a month if they didn't have to take additional jobs, extra shifts and work I've done this my whole life and I still do it. A lot more than 200 hours a month. Because it's not good how life goes around at work. However, it must be realized that if all doctors made an opt-out clause one day and everyone started working 160 hours a month, the system would collapse. There's no need to curse reality. That's a fact. Yes, on-call services are a source of income for doctors, but I assure you that many of the on-call workers take these shifts not only because they want to earn money, but also because they have a sense of responsibility for the sick and because in one way or another they are encouraged, and in a few places they are forced by various management procedures, to be on duty. Doctors are on duty not only because they want to, but also often because they are responsible. And sometimes they just have to. If minority corrections, especially those that talk about protecting a doctor as a public official... Because it doesn't matter if the doctor gets hit in the E.R., the E.R., or if the dentist gets hit in the private office. It's still a person providing health services. And if we do not settle the issue of extra shifts outside the basic workplace, if all of this remains in the present form, we will not be able to support this law. We are afraid, and this is shown by the practice of daily activities and life experience, that if we do not allow doctors to work elsewhere, in other hospitals, we will create a threat unnecessarily. as regards on-call staff in many individuals, especially in small and medium-sized cities, but also in some university centres, such as: in my family's Szczecin, where in one of the hospitals 60% On-call crews come from another unit. We have caused this unwise decision about night and Christmas care, which is very high-paying, so that in the ranking of residents these are the best on-calls of the resident who serves as part of the night Christmas care can, if necessary, direct the patient to the hospital emergency department and, if necessary, immediately to the hospital. And these shifts are better paid than those in hospitals, because they were used for a lot of money, but it also caused a side effect that was to be anticipated. that a lot of people who were on duty in hospitals prefer to be on duty as part of night and Christmas medical care. And of course it caused it. Also the outflow of hospital staff, which are the least popular because they are heavy, difficult, sometimes require violent reactions and difficult decisions. We therefore call for once again to lean on amendments that exhaust environmental expectations and emanate from what was presented by representatives of the medical chamber, residents, directors of many hospitals. They'd make this bill better. If these amendments are not accepted, we will not be able to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u411	Thank you. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a bill supported by a vast, overwhelming majority of MEPs in the Sejm. And I must say, so warmly referring to my predecessor's statement, that I would be surprised if it were not the same here, in this House, because it is a law primarily continuing what the Government of Law and Justice started last year, i.e. continuing the decisive change in the course of increasing health expenditure, not only in absolute terms but also in gross domestic product. And that's good news. It's surprising, then, that there's no more enthusiasm in this room. Well, it's evening, we're all tired... But I must also say that what accompanied the adoption of the so-called. Act 6% That's the first law that broke the current trend of staying in some stagnation in terms of spending on health care... They did grow if they were accounted for in absolute numbers, but in fact not only did they grow, but sometimes even decreased if they were counted as a percentage of GDP. And that's what happened in the last few years. Even when this law was passed, in November, the government declared very clearly that the minimum values that must be implemented there are indicated, but if the economic situation of the country permits it, this process will be faster. And today we have a follow-up to whether to write the announcement, previously announced. This is the next step. My previous speaker was talking about It's a quote. A little bit of acceleration. You have to be aware that this is a bit of a speeding-up of the investigation to 6%. In total, over the years, GDP is several, and then even more than several billion zlotys per year. This is a huge amount of money that will certainly be felt in health care. And I think that when we talk about this law, first of all we have to talk about the fact that this is a law that accelerates or increases expenditures, or, actually, you can say, every year increasing public spending on health care. And that's very good news. Finally, we need to be aware of this and keep reminding ourselves that health services work for citizens, for patients, while respecting health professionals, of course, but patients are the primary subject. By the way, this has not yet been mentioned. This law also introduces a certain order, or it further clarifies what was adopted by us a few weeks ago. It is a law which has given special privileges to people with disabilities to a considerable extent. Here it clearly crosses interpretation possibilities when it comes to children. These children are also covered by this law, they are covered by the same privileges as adults with disabilities to a significant extent. As regards the implementation of the agreement between the Minister of Health and doctors of residents of the National Medical Association, it must be said that the Minister of Health, when proposing this law, has implemented this agreement. There can be no discussion or doubt about this. I'm sure it is. Besides, the government, the Sejm and the Senate, and then the president with their seriousness cannot be or become a party to this agreement. Therefore, certain clarifications and modifications of what has been written in the draft law are, of course, possible. It seems, for example. the addiction of the additive so called patriotic, that is, additional resources that a resident doctor may receive, who undertakes to work some time in Poland and will not think about emigration at that time It is quite natural to find a specific description in the act. And the fact that this commitment only covers two years, but in the public system, is quite obvious. That's what we want. So that doctors who graduate and then specialize, first of all, are at the disposal of all patients, and not just for example. those who can pay for their services. That's why it's a commitment. As for this allowance for specialist doctors for committing themselves to work in one entity, in one hospital, although also with certain exceptions or safeguards... This is also worth noting: the law contains such a guarantee that if the voivodeship branch of the National Health Fund finds that there is some critical lack of doctors of a given specialty, it may consent that they will be taking additional shifts in other entities. But this solution, which has long been discussed and desired by many, simply has the chance to create a certain order of employment for doctors. Today, many doctors are distracted by their efforts on many subjects, often on duty in several, several or even more subjects, moving from one town to another, which is not for the benefit of patients at all. This often violates the need for comprehensiveness and continuity of care. This arrangement is characteristic of many countries where doctors are attached to one job in one way or another. And this is especially beneficial for patients. But also And that's what I'm paying attention to, too. In a situation where there is a discussion about overworking doctors, in some sense this is going in the direction of ordering the matter in this respect. It is also extremely important to give doctors the protection available to public officials. But to those doctors who work in the public system. The public system, as you know, is made up of both public and private entities, but must be publicly funded. It seems that the name itself The protection afforded to a public official I mean, where we're dealing with the tensions that caused the need. This is a very clear step towards the expectations of the medical community. Finally, it is extremely important to note, which was also mentioned today, that by 2028 we have to deal with the organisation of the work of doctors in Poland, so that it is not necessary to expect additional work from them over 48 hours a week, to work with some risks not only for these doctors, but above all for the safety of patients. This is a great organizational challenge. And it seems that the government, which has been constantly increasing recruitment for medical studies for two years now, gives a chance that in 10 years the number of doctors in Poland will be large enough to be possible. However, this must also be accompanied by a number of employment-ordering projects. And it seems that at least to some extent this law creates the first step in this direction and gives the opportunity for doctors to actually work in a way that is safe for them, but also for their patients. I think that, for all these reasons, the law deserves firm support in the form in which it was adopted by the Sejm. And I propose that we also accept it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u413	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'm the senator. Already the fourth term and to be honest, I am talking about this law today and about the one that we previously adopted, about reaching 6%. GDP of health expenditure It wasn't. It hasn't been for so many years. And those billions of zloty, tens and even hundreds of billions of zlotys, which will be added to health care. I would like to stress: in addition In the history of Polish health care, it's probably the first such strong injection, the injection of such a great amount of money. So it's hard not to say, and it's hard to forget. It may have been awkward for Minister Radziwill to talk about this, but I think it is time and place to thank you and your staff for this bill that you have so laboriously prepared. 'Cause I think it's actually... I don't know if it's the most important you as Minister of Health, the bill. The fact that we're updating it right now, which is like we're speeding up to this 6%. GDP, that is, we are going towards an agreement that was concluded between the Minister of Health and the residents, so to speak, it only indicates that our government, the Government of Law and Justice, is very determined to improve the situation in the Polish health service. That we hear: why so late, why so slow... I may not be surprised by the young doctors, because I was young too, and I know that a man wanted things right away. Oh, no, you can't do that. But I'm surprised to see Senator Grodzk, who wasn't a senator in the previous two terms, but... well, I have to say, you haven't made a bill like this in eight years. And the fact that, as you say, Western countries want to increase by 1% every year GDP... Well, we can't make that kind of effort because there's no money in our budget. I always try to avoid political discussion in the Committee on Health because I think that the health and health of our citizens should be outside this political discourse, but I must say this because I disagree that you have quite skillfully missed the eight years before. An important function is this addition as if it were patriotic, although I do not like that term, because I think measuring patriotism does not have any tangible financial advantage. But in fact, it's an increase in funding, an increase in the salary of residents for working extra 2 years after they've finished specialization... Some say, why only two years, why not more? This is how it was concluded in the agreement, but I think that these 2 years are a good element of action to stop these doctors in Poland, because, as we know, unfortunately there are few. This, unfortunately, is also the aftermath of previous years, when a fairly stable number of students was admitted to medical school. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We have increased, Minister, so you must be thanked for that too. Of course, you have to wait a few more years for this effect, but it's definitely going to happen. That is why I believe that this law is a good law, and I propose that the High Senate accept it without amendment. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u415	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, I would like to remind you that point 15, i.e. the law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws, has already been examined. I'm about to announce a recess, and now I'm gonna ask you to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u416	Thank you very much. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws will take place on 11 July, Wednesday, 9.15 a.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance will take place on 11 July at 8.30 p.m. in room 176. Agenda: review of the Law on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959; review of the Law on the amendment of the Law The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports will take place on 11 July immediately following the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 307. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 11 July, at 9.15 a.m. in room 182. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Waste Act and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 11 July, at 9.30 a.m. in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-10-senat-63-1.u417	Thank you. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 24]]
