ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Arkadiusz Myrch, Piotr Olszówka, Łukasz Schreiber and Krzysztof Truskolas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Piotr Olszówka and Mr Łukasz Schreiber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Krzysztof Truskolaska. I cannot at the moment ask the Secretary to read the messages. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question I ask you, Mrs Anna Czech and Ms Eve Filipiak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is on the implementation of the e-release system. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! From 1 January 2016, doctors may issue electronic medical exemptions called e-ZLA. Exemptions for paper printing may be issued by the end of November. The display of e-ZLA takes much less time than writing a paper release. By using this function, your doctor will gain access to your data, your employers and your family members if your release is issued to care for them. In addition, the system automatically shows a lot of information that is needed by your doctor. As of 1 December 2018, only e-ZLA will be allowed to be displayed, and there will be a departure from the traditional form. We know that the Social Insurance Institution takes very professional, intensive action to effectively implement the system. Therefore, I am asking the Minister with questions and, on the basis of the current data of the Ministry, I ask you to answer, at what stage is the implementation of this exemption scheme. How are doctors preparing to issue e-releases in individual voivodships? In which voivodships is the most efficient, and in which is the worst? Is the deadline postponed to 1 December for the full implementation of e-releases both from the doctor's point of view and from the IT system's point of view? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u3	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As mentioned by the honourable Member, since 1 January 2016, doctors have been able to issue sick leave in two forms, i.e. in the form of traditional, past - paper and new - electronic form. I would like to remind you that this deadline for the end of the transitional period during which both forms of sick leave can be used has been doubled. The original date is 1 January 2018. However, the postulates of the medical environment were taken into account and this deadline was postponed by the High House by the end of June and an amendment of the Act was made at the end of June 2018 by extending this transitional period until the end of November 2018. As regards the preparation of the Social Insurance Institution, but also of the medical environment for the issue of medical certificates only in electronic form, it can be said that here it was conducive to whether or not it was used for such dissemination of medical dismissals, the amendment of the Act made on 13 September 2018, which introduced the institution of the medical assistant. It can be said that the principle will be maintained that a medical certificate on incapacity for work will be issued by a doctor, a dentist, a felcher and an senior felcher authorised to do so by the Social Insurance Institution, but the technical activities referred to as the issue of a medical certificate will be carried out by medical assistants. This is intended to enable doctors to focus on those activities that constitute the primary tasks of a doctor, i.e. to assess the state of health and the treatment process, implement the treatment process. As regards the degree of progress of the process of dissemination of medical certificates, I would like to say that the Social Insurance Institution carries out in parallel a series of activities aimed at achieving this objective, so that everyone concerned from 1 December 2018 is properly prepared to issue this single electronic form of certificate of incapacity for work. As regards today's situation, according to data provided by the President of the Social Insurance Institution in September 2018 almost 45% in the whole country already exemptions were made in electronic form. As regards the situation in individual voivodships, the smallest percentage of redundancies in electronic form was recorded in the Lubuskie voivodship, i.e. 28,5% , whereas the highest percentage in the Mazowieckie voivodship, i.e. 56.5%. More than 50% of sick leave is issued in this form in Mazowieckie, Podlaskie, Zachodniopomorskie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships. As regards other information relevant for assessing the degree of dissemination of electronic sick leave, the number of doctors and other medical professions authorised to issue medical certificates exceeds 145 000. It can be said that the doctors who have issued at least one electronic release in the last 6 months are over 66%. The number of doctors who have established and active doctor profile on the Electronic Services Platform of the Social Insurance Institution is over 102 thousand. - it can be said that it is a group of active representatives of medical professions who issue medical certificates - almost 44 thousand of them. doctors grant exemptions using this service platform, which accounts for more than 30% of doctors authorised to issue exemptions and more than 45.5% doctors actively issuing such exemptions. As regards the period from January 2016 to the end of September 2018, 6300 000 were issued during that period. electronic exemptions. With regard to electronic exemptions [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were 889 thousand of them in the clinic applications. With regard to medical certificates issued in paper form during this period, the number of medical certificates is almost 60 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u5	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u6	To answer the last question, is the date 1 December 2018 a good time to leave this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u7	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u8	...the paper version, I believe this is a good time and all stakeholders are well prepared to fully implement e-releases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u9	Thank you. The additional question is asked by Mrs Ewa Filipiak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two additional questions: Will it be possible to issue e-releases during home visits? What are the benefits of this whole electronic sick leave system for employers and patients? And such a remark to what the Minister has said so far. I don't know if the percentages you've given show 100% since December 1st of this year. exemptions will be issued in electronic form. The Minister said there would be no danger, but I have some doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Zielenecki again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u12	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have attempted to diagnose the causes of such a percentage of doctors issuing electronic medical certificates. If we look at the dynamics of the increase in the number of doctors issuing e-releases, she's pretty big. It can be said that in July 2017, i.e. practically at the end of this period, which was originally to be a transitional period, the number of doctors issuing certificates in electronic form represented 6,42%. Since then it's been a year and, as I mentioned, this percentage looks much better, with 6,42% increased to 44, almost 45%. With regard to the reasons for not giving electronic sick leave by doctors, the reasons which are raised by the medical community or to which doctors pay attention are 75.5% Doctors are determined to give reasons for waiting for the deadline of 1 December 2018. I assume when this transition period is over, the number of doctors... Today we have actually voluntaryity, since 1 December 2018 such a choice of form of medical certificate will no longer be available and I assume that then this percentage will increase. With regard to the first question made by the Member concerning the possibility for doctors to issue medical certificates during their home visits, the Act of course contains such possibilities for doctors to issue e-releases during their home visit. More or less, the fact is that after the end of the working day the doctor has the possibility, having access to the IT system, to the Internet, simply to make electronic versions of such sick leave and send these redundancies collectively to the Social Insurance Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u13	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the Secretary of the Seym of Mr. Luke Schreiber to read the messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9.15, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure immediately after the end of the meeting convened at the time of the meeting. 9.15 a.m. 10.45, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 11.30, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 13, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 5:30. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Group for: Tourism - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Missionary Works and the Polish Ministry - hour. 10.30, - Parliamentary Team - Poland Wodorowa - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Loreliosis - 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u15	Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 19 of the agenda. We therefore come to the next question. Members of Ewa Malik and Mariusz Trepka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about increasing the funding of local local investments. The first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Malik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Government has increased funding for local investments. On behalf of the inhabitants, not only these very small municipalities, but all of them, because they are all in need, thank you very much for this extremely necessary program and so much expected by the inhabitants of small towns. There are really many ways in the municipalities that no one has ever felt responsible for. Support under the Fund for Roads and the programme for the regions was allocated PLN 36 billion for the years 2019 to 2028. As announced in 2019 alone, an amount of PLN 6 billion will be available under the Fund. I would therefore like to ask: How will these funds be distributed to the voivodships and how much will be allocated to the Śląskie voivodship in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u17	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u18	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mrs Malik's question. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today we are talking about the bill which the Polish Sejm adopted several hours ago during the voting process. It is the law on the Self-Government Road Fund, for which, as you have been gracious to say, local governments, as well as the local authorities of Zagłębia, are waiting. The Fund for Roads will have over PLN 6 billion next year. We hope that within 10 years local governments will absorb more than 35 billion PLN. Why do I say we have hope? Because the amount of resources distributed is a consequence of self-government activity. It is the local authorities who submit applications for funding investments on municipal roads, district roads, investments in the implementation of bridge projects, a programme which is run by the Ministry of Investment and Development. But, beyond any doubt, these measures must go particularly where so far the number of investments on municipal and district roads has been insufficient from the point of view of the needs of residents, and also from the point of view of safety on these roads, because the main objective of this programme is to increase safety on Polish roads, on municipal and district roads. It is not only that we are making large investments, you could say, investments in macro-dimensional, expensive, investments in the construction of expressways, motorways, national roads with very high parameters. These communal roads are also important. I'd like to remind you that at 374,000. The public roads in Poland account for 88%. And the 374,000. km of municipal roads were assessed by the Supreme Audit Chamber - state 36% local roads have been assessed as bad, almost 30%... more than 35% of these roads have been assessed as unsatisfactory. That is why we have decided to allocate the funds of the Self-Government Road Fund, in accordance with Article. 8 of the proposed law, on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the distribution of funds into county tasks and municipal tasks and into individual voivodships, having regard to the length of the district roads and municipal roads in the voivodship, the number of population and area of the voivodship, the gross domestic product per voivodship. The criteria for the distribution of the envelope will be the same for all voivodships. It is assumed that the distribution of funds between voivodships will be based on three factors: population-surface, compensatory in terms of the average national GDP per capita and road, covering the total length of municipal and district roads, with these factors being of equal importance. This designed way of allocating the funds is similar to the mechanism adopted in the Local and District Road Infrastructure Development Programme for 2016-2019. This breakdown of national funds into voivodship is based here on a road factor - the arithmetic average expressed in percentage of the total length of communal and district roads in the voivodship area to the total length of such roads in the country and the corresponding ratio defined for municipal and district roads with hard surfaces - the population-surface factor - the arithmetic average expressed in percentage of the population of the voivodship in the population of the country and the share of the general area of voivodship in the general area of the country - and finally on this compensatory factor, which I have already mentioned, which is proportional to the ratio of the national average gross domestic product per capita and the gross domestic product per capita of the voivodship. I can give, for example, percentages for the allocation of funds to support road investments for 2018 - in this case the Śląskie voivodship [[♪ The bell ♪]] had a share of 6,79% the overall envelope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mariusz Trepka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask, because yesterday we adopted this law on the Self-Government Road Fund and already today I had a phone call, the question is whether small municipalities will be able to apply for the construction of the pavement itself, because they could not afford to make the municipal road, including the sidewalk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk again corresponds to the Minister of Infrastructure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u22	Thank you very much, sir. I answer Mr Trepka's additional question. In fact, in recent times I have conducted many hundreds of talks with local authorities, with local government officials, who have asked, on what specific terms this support will be provided in voivodships, whether it will be as it has been so far, i.e. whether this will be a specific process of this co-financing in accordance with the principles adopted by the infrastructure department. Yes, the infrastructure department is preparing guidelines, but in general the change is today that it is the voivodships who know the needs of the regions, who know the needs of local and district authorities, including the voivodships in the case of the implementation of bridge investments, which will determine how and in what amount to finance projects on municipal and district roads. The Member asks if it can be so that only sidewalks. The pedestrians, hiking and cycling are part of the road infrastructure, which represents the safety of the least protected road users, such as pedestrians, such as cyclists. It is the pedestrian-riding lines that affect the comfort of these road users, but also those motorized, those moving by mechanical vehicles, because safe pedestrians, safe cyclists are also, in a large part, safe drivers of vehicles on our roads. So I can't imagine... There is no, Mr Wysoka Izbo, in the act of records which would exclude support for precisely those projects which today are lacking on Polish local roads: municipal roads, district roads. We believe that any important element of road infrastructure affecting increased road safety should be co-financed by the Self-Government Road Fund, few of which, depending on the income of the municipalities, can be co-financed [[♪ The bell ♪]] is equal to or up to 80% the value of the task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u23	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Tomasz Kostusz from the Civic Platform and Ryszard Galla, an independent Member, ask a question about the reactivation of the port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. Mr Ryszard Galla is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the most important elements of sailing development in Oder is port infrastructure. The port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, which has been very devastated and unused for years, has been purchased in the last 2 years by Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale and investment works have begun. This includes three port terminals: fuel, container and bulk materials, road infrastructure and rail infrastructure. Mr Kostusi and I visited this investment in July, and I must say that the heart was pleased when we saw the progress of the work there. In the last few weeks, we've learned that there are problems. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the attitude of the Polish government towards the reactivation of the port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl? Is there any government support here, not just financial support, but even organizational support? And my second question is already very specific, i.e. the failure of PKP SA to agree on the use of a piece of railway line, i.e. 500 m, 0.5 km, which line would be renovated by the company Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale and would improve the operation of the port. Fewly this, we also know that at PLK level these issues were agreed and in fact only the consent of PKP SA was needed. This consent was not received [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we also don't know what's causing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, replies. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The subject of port reactivation in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu is an object of... The issue arising from this port reactivation is the issue of tracks, the question of connection between port and rail network. In early 2016, PKP SA investigated the sale of unlimited real estate located in the immediate vicinity of the river port in Oder, about 11 ha of land. The buyer was then selected, i.e.Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale sp. z o.o. However, at that stage there was no finalization of sales due to the lack of approval of the Supervisory Board of PKP SA for such a regulation of assets. This decision was related to a change in the company's strategy for the sale of real estate made by the new management board and the new supervisory board of PKP SA. In view of the preferences of PKP SA regarding the company's long-term involvement in business projects and the collection of benefits instead of the disposal of real estate, the company undertook further negotiations with KKT, i.e.Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale, in order to determine the conditions for future cooperation. The parties agreed that, at the first stage, this property would be made available to KKT through a long-term lease agreement and then the terms and conditions of mutual cooperation within the special purpose vehicle will be negotiated. Unfortunately, at the end of the long-term and complicated negotiations of the lease agreement, and also due to doubts about the validity of the agreement, PKP SA withdrew from the negotiations. Here, attention should be paid to the fact that PKP S.A. takes a number of measures to support the economic development of the country both by carrying out infrastructure projects and by coordinating the activities of PKP Group companies in this respect. However, the activities undertaken by PKP SA are primarily characterised by the concern for the economic and economic interests of the country. Therefore, PKP S.A. takes particular care to initiatives where the company has, for example, a shadow of doubts about the business project under investigation. But I can also give an example of good cooperation with local authorities and companies, among others. in the area of cities such as Bydgoszcz, Elbląg, Tczew, Szczecin, Gliwice, Płock. In addition, PKP SA actively acts as a nationwide transport network integrator, including multimodal terminals and logistics centres. PKP SA is aware of the importance of investment in the port of Kędzierzyn-Koźle, I wanted to emphasize this with full determination, taking into account private capital involved there. Of course, it doesn't matter. PKP SA conducts a reconnaissance of the business project of its involvement on the scale of the network, and the target shape of the involvement of PKP SA will be possible after the development of study work. In addition, it should be noted that PKP SA and PKP PLK SA are commercial entities which have fixed assets in their resources, which are decided by the boards of companies and not by the Treasury. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact - and to welcome this - that the issue of reactivation of the port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl is important and is considered, for example, at the meeting of the Sejm Committee on Special Services, is also the subject of an interest of Members and interpellative speeches to the Minister of Infrastructure. I think, that is, I hope that soon they will come to a conclusion and on the basis of various research work, studies will be able to determine directions for further cooperation. One thing is certain that the state I know about - part of this railway line is not so closed as it is practically not there - this devastated area - will change because it does not serve anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u27	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u28	Dear Minister, This investment will rise. Do you know why? Because Polish inland navigation is waiting for it, because the Polish economy is waiting for it, I am absolutely convinced of it. The Minister spoke so wonderfully about PKP SA here. Question: "Why hasn't PKP expressed its position on the case so far for more than four months?" Why doesn't Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale know what the official position of PKP SA is so far? Answer that question. And another case. Minister, are you aware of the impact of the overload on the road safety of Kędzierzyn-Koźl and the entire runway of southern Poland when this issue is not resolved, when the entire road traffic will have to do this investment, this port service? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to answer the question and thank you for the kind words, so optimistic of the Minister's position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let us establish beyond any doubt that the implementation of transport and transport investments in Poland is a priority and will be a priority in our government, that is beyond any doubt, and that is why the activity of Minister Marek Grybarczyk, who shows great determination and takes large initiatives in the field of inland transport. Therefore, it will never be so that any business organisation, and one of such is PKP SA, will stand in the way of achieving this objective, which is a coherent transport network in our country. When the Member asks for a delay of 4 months, I can say from this point of view that many institutions are interested in this problem, he is analysing this problem. And the results of these analyses are also awaited by PKP SA in order to be able to make quick decisions on this matter. If we had already had all the studio materials, analytical materials - I am talking about PKP SA here - probably this decision would have been made. We are ready to make this decision, we are still lacking the materials we are waiting for, materials that will be generated by the institutions cooperating with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Dariusz Starzycki, Jerzy Paul and Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club, ask for a deregulation package for drivers. The first question is asked by Dariusz Starzycki and Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From 1 October, drivers are no longer obliged to carry the registration card of the car and the insurance policy of the OC. These are very good solutions for drivers, but, of course, expectations are even greater. The Ministry announced the introduction of the so-called. a deregulation package for drivers, which was agreed with the Ministry of Infrastructure, in which, among others, there will be a waiver from the printed vehicle card or there will be no obligation to hold a driving licence. These facilities are also intended to reduce unnecessary costs for drivers. I therefore have a question for the Minister: What does this package contain in detail, what other solutions and when will it be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u33	Thank you very much. That's what he's gonna answer, and he's gonna say... Oh, and Mr. Jerzy Paul, a supplementary question. Please, there's still time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I have a question. I'd ask for details on the driver's license. Will drivers be able to drive without a driver's license? And will this apply to all categories, or only category B, which is the most popular one, which almost all Poles have? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Zagórski will answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Ministry of Digitisation together with the Minister of Infrastructure, because these are joint actions, firstly, with the competence of the Minister of Infrastructure, who is responsible for a number of issues, is the host of laws such as the Road Traffic Law or the Vehicle Drivers Act, while the Minister of Digitization in terms of the operation of the whole system, namely the Central Vehicle and Driver Records system. Together we have prepared a package of proposals, which will be reflected in the provisions of the proposed law, laws amending the current solutions and which will be implemented gradually from next year. I am saying: successive, because some of these changes, which I am about to mention, will require more or less modifications in the system. Depending on the scale of these modifications, we will gradually start them. In this package, which we are talking about - in these proposals, because it should also still be considered as proposals that we are making, proposals that will find, as I said, my reflection in the draft law presented by the Council of Ministers, but this will still be the subject of public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements - we propose abolishing the mandate for not having a driving licence. And here, answering, as if from the end, Mr. Jerzy Paul's main question, I would like to say that this will first involve no punishment for not having a driver's license. This will not be as clear as the registration document, and this is due to the issue of differences between the present functioning, already amended by the Central Vehicle Registration and the Central Driver Registration, which we are about to modify. The difference at the moment is that, while changes in the Central Vehicle Registration are already made online, changes in the Central Driver Registration are made with some delay. We are going to minimize these delays as much as possible, but first of all, we are going to talk about the lack of a mandate for driving without a driver's license. Of course, this will mean the same in practice for drivers: if they do not have a driver's license, they will simply not be punished. The services will be prepared and prepared for this, because at least we already have an institution like virtual detention of a driver's license in a situation where someone doesn't have a driver's license, and because of the scale of the exceedance, the police are going to stop him. So these procedures will be preserved. However, we're not talking about driving without a driver's license here, we're talking about not having a driver's license, we're talking about not having a driver's license, we're talking about not having a driver's license. It is in the first stage, in the second stage, that we really plan to go completely away from having such a document with us. Further amendments concern the possibility of maintaining the existing vehicle registration number, including vehicle plates, at the request of the new owner of the vehicle. In a situation where the new owner does not live in the district where the car has so far been registered, of course this possibility of change will be, while, as I say, it is possible to keep the old registration number. We also waive the obligation to issue a vehicle card and remove the control sticker. These three elements will reduce the costs of the owner of the vehicle in this respect. As far as the vehicle card is concerned, about PLN 75,5 and in case of the possibility to keep the existing registration number and not to remove the control sticker by almost PLN 100, because PLN 99.5. Once again, I stress: these are situations where there is no and there will be no obligation to make these changes. In the case of a vehicle card, it will be completely removed, while in terms of the behaviour or not of the registration number and thus the change of registration plates, it will be a matter of choice. If the citizen wishes to make such a change, he will be able to do so, of course. In addition, we intend to introduce the possibility of registering on-line vehicles, first of all new cars purchased not only through car dealers, but also by professional dealers, in short, further, the exemption from the obligation to issue a temporary registration document, because since there is no need for registration, there is in principle no justification for issuing a temporary registration document. Of course, we will retain this possibility, because this temporary evidence in some cases, e.g. If you go abroad, you'll need it. We also change, we will try to introduce changes in the test period for young drivers, among others. The aim is to waive compulsory training in driving training centres for drivers who commit no more than two offences during the trial period. We also propose to give the report generated by the service to my vehicle the power of the official document. It's about what we print ourselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with CEPiK alone, could serve as a basis for the transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to return to those changes that have already been made. From 1 October the driver will not be punished if he does not have a registration card or an OC insurance policy. When I talk to residents, there is a dilemma with voters - which in the case of collisions, whether you will have to call the police every time. Can you, as the Minister of Digitization, confirm here that, at the moment of such a collision, it is possible to quickly, electronically verify whether the car is insured? That's one question. And the second question is that these provisions have been in force since 1 October. Have there been any errors, or is there still liquidity in checking these data in the Central Vehicle Registration? Isn't there some kind of signal here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Zagórski is again responsible for digitization.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u40	Mr. Speaker! Mr. Marshal! I would like to say, firstly, that there is the possibility of electronic verification, e.g. through the Insurance Guarantee Fund application. You can install such an application and have information about whether your car is insured. Secondly, there's no problem about... There is no need to always call in case of an accident The police, because it's all based on statements. If the driver signs the relevant statement and if we are able to verify his identity, then there is really no need to enter the policy number each time, for example OC, because it is, as I said, to check and download in the future. I also confirm that they didn't reach the Ministry, at least none of them... We have reports from the Police Headquarters that there are no problems with the application of these regulations. Let me put it this way: they worked very well. Unfortunately, a little too well in the sense that the first virtual detention of the registration took place on 1 October 36 minutes after midnight, and by hours. Four in the morning of these arrests were probably 200. We can say that this has worked very well, although I would prefer it to work, but to make those numbers a lot smaller. Taking this opportunity, I would also like to say that, as regards these changes which will be, and speaking of registration proof, the Ministry of Infrastructure proposes one very important change for those drivers who have a paper registration card, like everyone else, and no longer have a place for stamps related to the technical examination. At the moment, the proposal is that this certificate of technical examination, which is issued at the vehicle inspection station, should be valid for a year. Since these data are still in the system and in the CEPiK, and this certificate will be valid throughout the year, this means that you will not need to exchange registration if you have this certificate with you. Not with me - if such a certificate is available. On the other hand, you will still not need registration, because these data, as I say, will confirm that the technical examination of the car is important, as in this case, that registration is valid, because these data are in the system. So that I think that in general this is also an additional facilitation. There are a whole range of changes related to this package, e.g. with the issue of temporary registration of a car for export abroad, but I will discuss this in detail when we come to the High Chamber [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a draft bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u41	Thank you very much. We have a situation now that you are a minister, but there are no Members who ask the question. There is no Mr Michael Szczerby, Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Mr Aldona Młyńczak. There are also no Members asking the next question: Thomas Latos, Anna April, Tadeusz Dziuba. There are Members asking another question... [[But there is no minister.]] ...but there is no minister to answer them. Then I'm announcing a five-minute break. We'll try to figure out what we can do in this situation. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 55 hours 9 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 19 of the agenda. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak and Mr Michał Szczerba are here, so we are going to proceed with the next question. Mr Szczerba is the first question to be asked. You're welcome. [[Is there a minister? Good morning.]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Szczerba, on the situation of people with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u42	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Hello, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue that we want to address today is absolutely important: the situation of people with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. We are fully aware that these people with these diseases cannot speak on their own behalf. Poles and Poles with dementia diseases in Poland are almost 0.5 million, but all forecasts show that this number will increase dramatically - it can be up to 1.5 million Poles and Poles. This also means that public authorities at all levels should take specific action against this patient group. The first good practice that exists in many countries belonging to the WHO World Health Organisation is Alzheimer's plans. The World Health Organization estimates that this Alzheimer's plan will have 75 countries by 2025. Unfortunately, Poland does not have this plan. Question one, Minister, concrete: When will there be a national Alzheimer's plan proposed by non-governmental organisations, including nationwide agreement, as well as by outstanding experts such as Prof. Barcikowska? The second question concerns screening. Screening tests this is the first diagnosis, this first diagnosis, which in a very simple way can prove that a problem arises, a dementia disease begins. In Poland, such screening is not done. And the third issue is the issue of drug reimbursement. We've got a problem. That's what they're complaining about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] also patients - with medicines with the chemical compound donepezil. If the disease is advanced, this medicine is not covered by the refund. Three specific questions I would like to ask the Minister on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u43	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question, because it does indeed concern, as the honourable Member has rightly pointed out, a very important issue, and I am very pleased to be able to say something about this today, about what the Ministry of Health is doing on this issue. With regard to securing funds for the possible implementation of the Alzheimer's plan in the 2019 budget, I would like to point out here that health policy programmes are created on the basis of the Benefits Act and, at this moment in the current state of knowledge, it is impossible to identify effective preventive measures that would have received a positive assessment of the medical technology assessment agencies. This is something that the Ministry of Health actually took the work on and handed over to the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification an order in the field of evaluation of such preventive measures in order to prepare a plan which can be implemented in accordance with the rules in force and can take the form of such a health policy programme implemented in accordance with the rules in force. As far as screening is concerned, an order was also sent to the medical technology assessment agency and the results of this assignment have already returned to the ministry. The recommendations and clinical guidelines analysed by AOTmiT do not recommend such screening tests and indicate that sensitivity and specificity of the currently available tests are not satisfactory in this respect. The president of AOTMIT pointed out that the evaluation process for dementia in patients should be individual and should take into account factors such as patient history, cognitive function testing, physical examination or review of the medication used by the patient. The occurrence of dementia should be assessed as a result of a comprehensive evaluation of the patient. This is the only way to make a full diagnosis. The primary healthcare doctor has all the tools to make such a diagnosis. On the other hand, when it comes to issues related to the refund, as probably all the members of the High House know, it is insanely sensitive matter, so that it is difficult to speak about a particular drug here from the Seym Tribe, but it is worth pointing out that medicines that are used in the indication of Alzheimer's disease are also refunded in the list of medicines available free of charge, within the 75+ list, which shows that we really see this problem and where we are able to solve it, we are also acting with such effective and patient-friendly instruments as the 75+ program of medicines, which, I will remind you, gives access to free medicines for people over 75 years of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u45	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, also by the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Unfortunately, we are not satisfied with this response. We also believe, together with a colleague, but also with those who work in Alzheimer's associations, that the ministry should take more concrete measures, especially to adapt to NIK's proposals, so to develop and implement standards that will address the early detection of symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, as well as standards regarding treatment, treatment and care for patients, as up to now NGOs have been more focused on this problem, and actually the entire cost of both financial and psychological, as well as social borne families. So, in short, there are no general standards that would cause, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that action would be taken to detect this disease in the early stages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u48	That is why we are proposing that the Ministry of Health, however, should improve such standards. Even though the Minister says that all tests are ineffective here, in many countries such tests are carried out...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u49	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u50	I'm almost done. ...and if they're not effective, we're asking for other methods. However, early detection methods are certainly needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u51	Replying again undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u52	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I understand the doubts that you have put forward, and this is the role of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarifications, such is the systematic division of functions in the Polish health system, that it is at the request of the Minister of Health that the Agency carries out a multifaceted and very broad review of information concerning already functioning, including in other countries, programmes, different treatments. This applies not only to Alzheimer's disease, but also to all other diseases. It also applies to medicines. This is the function of the Health Technology Assessment Agency, so that the Minister of Health has a 100% assurance that, when deciding to finance treatment from public funds, it is based on verified and verified research results. In this case, such an order was transferred to the Agency and, as I have already said before, the President of the Agency indicated that there are currently no ways of carrying out screenings that would be proven to be effective. Therefore, in order to ensure that the funds we provide for the financing of benefits are used as efficiently as possible, the Minister has not decided to carry out screening tests. At the same time, I would like to assure you that the Agency is constantly monitoring this phenomenon and at a time when effective methods of carrying out such research will emerge, with confirmation of its effectiveness, the President of the Agency will provide such information to the Ministry and the Ministry will be able to decide on this basis to introduce e.g. a screening programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question asked by Members Tomasz Latos, Anna April and Tadeusz Dziuba from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which concerns the use by the Ministry of Health of additional resources for infrastructure. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In 2018, the Ministry of Health received an additional PLN 240 million for the infrastructure under the Operational Programme. A draft amendment to the operational programme was adopted during the last POWER Monitoring Committee in October, which granted an additional PLN 150 million to health. I would like to ask the Minister: How have these funds been used, how have they been divided? What are your further plans for these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cieszyński again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u56	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, this is the year when European funding has been very supportive of the health sector. Thanks to the fact that the spending of those amounts that were placed at the beginning of the perspective went so well, additional resources could be obtained. The role of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Investment and Development, which helped us transfer funds from other axes, in which this use was less, is very important in order to finance expenditure in the health sector. As far as the Operational Programme is concerned, Infrastructure and the environment, we have actually obtained an additional PLN 240 million and these funds have been transferred, among others. for a support programme for hospital emergency services, under which we have already signed about 90 contracts, and the last one will still be signed by the end of October, possibly at the beginning of November. Within the framework of this program, almost 100 hospital emergency units across Poland will be equipped to rescue children. In addition, we envisage one project for the establishment of a new hospital rescue unit, 27 investment projects in branches in supra-regional hospitals and two projects supporting mental health centres. Besides, there is another very important system project that will probably start next year. It is a project of building a nationwide system supporting the organisation of hospital emergency services. The point is that when you enter the S.R., the patient sees a board that will show the waiting time after the triage, i.e. how much a patient in a given category is likely to expect assistance. This is so important that it will help to better organize those hospital emergency services to which people most urgently need help. In addition, if the waiting time in this lightest category is long, the system will eventually lead to night and Christmas medical attention, which will also contribute to the fact that only those patients who should actually be in hospital emergency services will be present. In addition, this project will support the organisation of work in the hospital rescue unit itself. As this system will be integrated at national level, it will allow the Ministry and State Medical Rescue to make better use of the resources that are available. It is often the case that there are more than one SORs in a given area. Thanks to the implementation of the program, it will be possible to check where the SOR will at any time give you faster access to your doctor. On the other hand, as regards the POWER programme, the Ministry of Health is taking part in the "Availability+' programme, under which we will carry out a grant programme, which will for the time being be addressed to 25 hospitals and 125 primary healthcare facilities. Under this programme, we will finance the adaptation of these institutions to the needs of people with disabilities. This is extremely important in my view, because we will start by trying to create a standard for all institutions, then we will go to specific, already functioning entities and help them implement this standard. If this program is implemented according to our assumptions, each such hospital will be able to receive a grant of up to PLN 2 million and the POZ facility - up to 720 thousand. it is precisely to adapt to the needs of people with disabilities, both in terms of architectural facilitation, because this can also be done with small renovations, as well as with regard to information systems, because a very important element for people with disabilities is the possibility of using telemedical services, which will thus be able to be provided. And for this, for the "Availability+" programme, an additional PLN 150 million will be allocated. And what is more, we hope that next year we will be able to raise an additional PLN 150 million, so that these entities will be twice as much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u57	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mrs Anna April from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You were just talking about this programme, the availability + and the fact that 25 hospitals were qualified under this programme. I would like to ask you how you chose this group of 25 hospitals. What standards, what criteria did these hospitals have to meet in order to be included in a group of precisely those individuals who will receive funds under this scheme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cieszyński again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u60	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Maybe I was a little vague here, because I made it clear that these hospitals, these entities, are already selected, while under the.Accessibility+ programme, within these measures that we received quite recently, we will only make the choice of these entities. What criteria will we follow? First of all, in order to achieve the maximum benefit for the patient, given the regional circumstances, but also, I do not hide the fact that, especially in the case of primary healthcare institutions, support those bodies that operate in regions where the financial situation is simply such that it is difficult to expect them to finance such facilities from their own resources. And at the same time, in our view, supporting infrastructure supporting people with disabilities in areas that have not yet been able to count on such investments and could not count on generating their own resources is particularly useful, because this effect will be much better than if we had, for example. they have granted these funds to operators operating in more developed areas which, under their own resources, can finance such investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u61	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Since you're late, Minister, Deputy Minister of Defense, we'll ask questions. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus and Mr Wojciech Murdzek of the Law and Justice Club ask about the effects of the so-called 'laws'. relief for start-up after six months of validity of the business constitution. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u62	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years, the problem of the level of social security contributions, ZUS burdens, has been such a fundamental problem when establishing business activities as reported. From April 30th this year. However, beginners have the right to benefit from the so-called. a start-up allowance according to which they are not subject to compulsory social insurance for 6 months. Here I would like to thank you for this government idea, the project and the implementation of this law, because solutions are needed to encourage companies to exit the grey zone. The start-up relief inevitably encourages start-ups, especially those that had not previously legalized their activities often due to high contributions and low revenues. It should be pointed out that on the way there was considerable confusion with the interpretation of the Social Insurance Institution, which indicated that ZUS contributions should be paid for those benefiting from a start-up allowance or performing activities without registration on the basis of a service contract. The decision of the ZUS showed that the customer had to charge and pay contributions for them. The government then resolved doubts about the start-up relief for the benefit of entrepreneurs. It is the entrepreneur who decides whether or not to pay contributions for himself. No one has to regulate them for him. The question is, however, what if someone chose the so-called. non-registered activity. Isn't he technically an entrepreneur? I would also like to ask you about the effects of the start-up relief. How many have so far benefited from the proposed solution? Could the possibility of unregistered activities have reduced the number of beneficiaries of the start-up allowance in some way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Haladyj corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the first effects of the business constitution or, in particular, the Business Law as such, may I say in just one introduction that we have been observing the effects of the business constitution for several months, whether or not solutions are being applied, whether they are popular or not. Of course, we just have a few months of this, so it's not yet such a period on the basis of which we can draw some very systemic conclusions. On the other hand, what is important at this moment is certainly the start of business by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here we see the first interventions made by your spokesperson. It is cool that entrepreneurs registered in CEIDG are already starting to benefit from the procurent institution on a large scale, i.e. what companies registered in CEIDG have not yet had, and have KRS companies, i.e. the establishment of such a proxy to conduct all the company's affairs without the need to issue individual credentials, certificates of non-payment with taxes, ZUS contributions, legal explanations, it is also about the website Biznes.gov.pl. It's all starting to walk. We also look at statistics related to, for example. with production... Entrepreneurs often pay attention to this, too. I will remind you that we also have a chapter in the Business Law on the creation of the law, we have the second, third quarter with a strong reduction in the number of legal acts arising, especially from the government side, which is also due to the introduction of such mechanisms, where the impact on entrepreneurs, where the impact on citizens is very strongly studied. Mechanisms in the organisation of government work, first and foremost introduced by Minister Sasin, with the use of mechanisms in the Law of Entrepreneurs, also affect this sphere. As far as the relief for the start of the strict sense is concerned, indeed, the Member mentioned the interpretation of the Gdańsk branch of the Social Insurance Institution. Let me stress that this was one interpretation of one office. So it's hard to say It's about some kind of juror line or practice. Very quickly with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Social Insurance Institution, we published a communication together, which cut through this first interpretation. Maybe it's a new institution, or maybe a little too far away the Gdansk ZUS went in the direction it is social security, because in the Law of Entrepreneurs we have here a direct exemption from this obligation. Therefore, it is exactly as you said, which means that I have no obligation to pay contributions to the Social Security Office for 6 months, and my contractor is not obliged to do it for me either, because this is simply an optional exemption for the starter of his business. So, in our opinion, this does not even require any legislative adjustment. At this moment, we do not see that such an interpretation, which is contrary to our position, is somehow developing. As far as the effect of the start-up relief is concerned, there were two goals. One goal - it is still too early to assess its implementation - is to increase the survival of companies. This is a few months away, so it's too short to assess it, but I think that if we add a small business activity here - we also adopted the regulations concerning it a few months ago - then hopefully in a few months we will see this positive impact. On the other hand, the second objective was to encourage business start-ups. And here we see growth since the introduction of the Business Law. For today, more than 900 new activities have been set up and entered into CEIDG. This is a significant increase in relation to what was before the entry into force of the Law of Entrepreneurs. Here you can safely assume that this is an element, it is because of this incentive in the form of no need to pay contributions. We estimate that about 60% entrepreneurs benefit from a start-up allowance. I think this is also due to this - because let's remember that this is an optional solution - that it is limited to those who have not carried out their activities in the last 5 years. In any case, most of this privilege benefits. Did the non-registered activity affect the use of the start-up allowance? In a way, she could have. I consider non-registered activities, relief for start-up and small business activities as a series of solutions. Because a person who wonders whether to take up business or not can start off with a non-registered activity, because then there are no obligations, no registrations, no public-legal, etc., while he can start doing this activity as if he were trying to do it. Then such a person has this 6-month exemption period, later - a small ZUS and the possibility of using the form of a small business activity. I think that together this causes that we can talk about the effect of increasing interest in doing business, and I hope that in a few months it will also translate into an increase in the survival of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, also the Law and Justice Club, is now asking an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the first part of the answer. On the other hand, I would like to ask what the mechanisms for monitoring the effects of the whole package under this heading are now: the business constitution, because these are fundamental changes. I note myself that in the work of the Sejm committees, especially on the social side, there have already been several times when the provisions of the business constitution have been invoked, i.e. this awareness increases. However, I have a question: how do you practically follow this implementation process, the information flow process? How are the effects followed? And if there are any signals that we can expect in time that there will be proposals to go [[♪ The bell ♪]] further or possibly any corrections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u67	Thank you. Mr Mariusz Haladyj again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u68	First of all, we have local or regional meetings with entrepreneurs. Here, Minister Emilewicz does a huge job, which actually takes place in at least a dozen months. Especially these new institutions are of interest, because something like non-registered activity is a complete novelty. And actually here these questions arise. This also led us, as the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, to publish an information brochure for those interested in taking advantage of this possibility so that we could easily answer the basic questions precisely by looking at this short and simple brochure. These meetings are also so important that we know that the letter of law alone will not ensure the proper application of these provisions here. On the one hand, we want to show entrepreneurs how they can exercise these powers, and on the other hand, to the authorities on their side, what obligations are attached to the application of the Business Law. We also conducted a survey on the start-up allowance, which was just asked by the Member. This is linked to the question of the Member. Over 80% the respondents were very positive or positive about the institution. We had 7%. grades, euphemistically speaking, skeptical. As for another way of collecting signals, it is a run site of Biznes.gov.pl, also in a new formula, after the introduction of business law. We see an interest in using legal explanations. Now the Minister of Digitization is thinking about issuing such explanations in the context of GDPR just so as not to revise the rules, but in such a simple way to explain how we should apply the various rules. We have direct signals from entrepreneurs, even coming to us simply for e-mails. By analyzing these signals, from these different sources, the signals we collect, we do not see at this moment the need for any changes. This is all we try to explain through such short, simple communications or direct correspondence. Of course, we are waiting for a signal from the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because he already signals that not so much sees situations related to Business Law as Business Law, but sees a threat or a risk that e.g. certain offices do not apply certain principles recognised by the Law of Entrepreneurs in their already material laws. We're gonna run this current surveillance, too, just like we did at the c.P.A. In a few months, we'll send a survey to the offices, also for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how this solution is used by the authorities, because we did it at K.P.A. It shows that in front of the C.P.A. all solutions are applied today for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk and Mr Kazimierz Plocke of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform asks a question about the seat of the Polish Armed Group in Radom and the quality of gunpowder production in MON companies. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk is the first to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When in 2013 the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz appointed a Polish Armed Group based in Radom, the radoms were proud that here, in the historic headquarters of the Central Industrial District, it would beat the heart of the Polish arms industry. Unfortunately, the seat isn't here until today. Suddenly, during a press conference in Radom, you, Minister, make promises about the purpose of the Polish Armed Group's headquarters in buildings of a revitalized weapons factory. You know perfectly well that this place is especially respected by the people of our city, it is almost sacred. Every family was connected to a metal factory, and that's what it says. If it hadn't been said by the candidate for president of the city, everyone would be happy, but if it was just part of the election campaign, then it wouldn't be. I have specific questions about this. Will the revitalized weapons factory in Radom be the target seat of the Polish Armed Group? When and what concrete action will be taken on this issue? Do the MON promises have confirmation in the next year's budget? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u71	Thank you very much. This question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words of explanation. When you recall my statement, Mr President, please be precise. I spoke about a centre of business services in which to focus all issues, for example concerning orders for all entities in the Polish Armed Group. Yes, in fact, you probably know this very well, the centre of business services of the Polish Armed Group is being developed in Radom, but it is also worth paying attention to one issue, to two issues. The first is that the seat of the Polish Armed Group is in Radom and will remain so. Nobody is going to change that because it's also tangible benefits for the city itself. Please also bear one very important point in mind. Today a shareholder of the Polish Armed Group - 28% shares in the Polish Armed Group - is the Industrial Development Agency. Today, the Industrial Development Agency is starting a very large investment in a place where the historic headquarters of the weapons factory was. We're talking about the Archer's business center. The Industrial Development Agency will invest PLN 80 million in revitalizing the facilities of the old weapons factory. Classic office space is to be built there. Oh, that's the top-notch one. 14,000. m2 of office space is one, but there will also be 9 thousand. m2 additional area for rent. If the Industrial Development Agency has 28% shares, it seems natural and logical that the Polish Armed Group, instead of renting out premises, office space on commercial terms from a private entrepreneur or private entity, could rent them from its owner or co-owner. Let me repeat: Industry Development Agency has 28% shares in the Polish Armed Forces Group. Today, we should not talk about whether it is good or bad, but we should decide - I hope that in the person of the Member I will find the person who is deeply interested in it - to create new jobs in Radom, because today, as far as the Agency for Industrial Development, which offers this office space and the creation of 2 000. high-paying jobs, this is undoubtedly added value. I am convinced that there may also be a headquarters of a business service centre, or maybe a Polish Armed Group, because these are two key issues. I'll say it again. I'm talking about the business service center all the time. Today we are in such a situation that the Polish Armoury Group is inextricably connected with Radom. And no one is going to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u73	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, also by the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The previous government, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, decided on the financial support of the state company Mesko based in Pionki about PLN 55 million for the implementation of the program related to the production of nitrocellulose powder. It's been a few years, and there's nothing going on about it. Therefore, we ask the Minister to answer the following questions. First of all, why didn't the current government of Law and Justice take action regarding the launch of the Polish company's gunpowder production programme prepared by the previous government? What are the reasons why in Poland we cannot create this product on the basis of Polish technology and using Polish defence potential? Will the current government start implementing the programme and when? And last question: Is it true that Poland buys powder [[♪ The bell ♪]] from Bulgaria, which according to the data available to us is the most expensive product in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u76	Thank you very much for this question and for your concern for this very important and sensitive area. A few words of explanation, even history. I will remind you, although we probably all remember a company such as Pronit, which was a tycoon on the local or national market, but not only, a plant that has been established for more than 90 years, which among others. he produced drugs, but please note that the actions of the subsequent boards in the 1990s led to the fact that this company simply fell, was transformed into a special production facility, then the special production plant also fell and was incorporated into the Mesko group. Yes, in fact, through long-term negligence caused by the degradation of the potential of this plant in Pionki, the company today does not have the ability to produce gunpowder to most types of ammunition produced in Poland. This is a great pain, and I assure you, this is absolutely not the fault of the Government of Law and Justice. Today we want to rebuild the potential of the plant in Pawns, today these funds that have been allocated so far are a drop in the sea of needs, that is the amount of 44 700 thousand. zł. This is to ensure the restoration of the core competences of this facility. This money has already been used in the vast majority. Please note that in 2018 the President of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki, in agreement with the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, decided to revitalize the plant in Pionki as an important element of the security system of the Republic. Following this decision, assumptions have been developed for the plan to revitalise the production of blasting explosives and explosives, as well as their components. It's happening right now. I would also like to point out that currently the Ministry of National Defence and the Polish Armed Group are conducting analyses on the detailed schedule and program of reconstruction of the Pionki plant, as well as [[♪ The bell ♪]] valuation of the necessary investments. Preliminary estimates indicate that it will take about 3 to 5 years to rebuild the potential for gunpowder production in Pawns, and will cost about PLN 400 million. Today, the government of Law and Justice, today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, today Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak declare that this money is and that money will be allocated to the revitalization of this plant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Waldemar Andzel and Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, ask a question about procedural guardians for the victims. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In line with the envisaged amendment of the article. 99 The family and caring code can only be established in proceedings that are particularly complicated by the guardian of the child, while in cases where the less complex curator can also be a person with a higher degree of legal education, including the applicant. However, the custody court will be able to designate a person who does not meet these requirements under special circumstances. It should be considered whether a curator with legal knowledge, but without basic pedagogical knowledge, will be able to take full care of the child's well-being. The lack of precise regulation in the rules, which are specific circumstances, and the complexity of the case, may lead to problems in the interpretation of the law by judges and involve the risk of appointment as curators of persons who are not properly prepared to perform that function. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Is it enough to be a guardian for a child to have a legal education alone? Is the Ministry planning to clarify the rules governing special circumstances and the complexity of the case? Does the Ministry plan to provide training for potential curators in pedagogy or child psychology? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u79	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the subject of the question is an important subject covered by a project drawn up in the Ministry of Justice, although the work on this project has been suspended for the time being until we have a comprehensive scientific opinion on this particular issue of the curator referred to in Article. 99 of the Family and Care Code from the Justice Institute. So I do not rule out that some minor adjustments to what we have today may occur. To answer questions relating to the text contained in the draft, the text which is currently updating the article. 99 The family and caring code can be found as follows. The very need to prepare a draft law arises from the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling of 11 February 2014. This ruling indicates the need for a regulation ensuring that the guardian is adequately qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings. Of course, the project concerns not only criminal proceedings, because today's legal situation is undoubtedly insufficient, insufficiently precise and requires regulation not only in the context of criminal proceedings, but also civil or administrative proceedings. These are situations where there may be a conflict of interest between parents and, therefore, it is necessary to establish a probation officer. When, as it is today, art. 99, none of the parents can represent a child under parental authority, and they will have to be represented by a probation officer established by a custody court. The draft amendments include the designation of the existing provision as § 1 and the addition of § 2. And that's what the question is. With regard to the first question concerning the performance of the child's probation function, whether legal education alone is sufficient, it must be stated that, as it seems, yes. In our intention to identify lawyers and lawyers as basic professional groups, among which we should seek candidates for guardianship established under Article. 99 k.r.o. is justified by the assumption that a lawyer or a lawyer as a professional agent is the person who has the greatest knowledge and professional experience in representing other persons in judicial and administrative proceedings. That's what it's all about doing these jobs. It is therefore the lawyers or lawyers who, in principle, can best guarantee the proper protection of the interests of the child if action is needed under the conditions laid down in Article. 98 § 2 A family and caring code, that is, when no parent can represent a child. This is in legal proceedings between children under parental authority, as well as in legal proceedings between a child and one of his or her parents or his or her spouse, unless the legal act consists of a free supply to the child or concerns the child's due from the other parent means of subsistence and education, which is appropriate in the proceedings before a court or other State authority. In fact, this fact is particularly important in criminal proceedings, especially when a child is to be represented as a victim of a criminal offence committed to the detriment of that child by a parent. In such proceedings, the representation of the minor will in principle require the taking of activities specific to those of the victim's agent, and only the lawyer or counsel may be a lawyer in accordance with the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, in such a situation it is difficult to imagine a circle of candidates for probation than counselors or lawyers. In addition, the added value of choosing a candidate as a curator among the representatives of these two professional groups is that both are obliged to comply with certain ethical principles. We are dealing with disciplinary courts which force compliance with these ethical principles, corporate courts, but in the end there is also control over this by the newly established Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. So that what seems to justify the submission and is the answer to the first question, whether legal education alone is sufficient, and especially whether it can be lawyers and lawyers. The rest of this question refers to non-punishment proceedings, because here lawyers [[♪ The bell ♪]] or counselors, but there are exceptions, here it is always useful to have legal education as much as possible. However, it is also possible that, in situations where the nature of the cases does not require it, the nature of the cases in which the circumstances are in fact uncontested, a person without legal education can represent in such a case. These are rare cases, but it's possible. Will the court be able to assess the particular circumstances? It seems that, knowing the best of the circumstances of the case, it is the court that will best assess the complexity of the case and the existence of particular circumstances. As regards training - ending with a third question - the obligation to train is a duty characteristic for all legal professions, lawyers, legal advisers, and therefore it will belong to the professional self-government of attorneys and counsellors, also with regard to applicants, in order to provide appropriate training...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u81	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: ...to do the duty. Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! How long is the probation procedure for a minor? I am informed that there is also a time that passes before the custody court appoints a guardian for the minor to protect the rights of the child. In addition, in practice, the appointment of a probation officer shall take at least one month from the date of the application by the prosecutor. Comparing this time with the deadlines for completion of the preliminary investigation, which are essentially 3 months for the investigation and 2 months for the investigation, it can be assumed that the procedure for setting up the probation officer takes too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Piebiak again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We do not have detailed statistics on the timeliness of the court's performance of this obligation, the appointment of a probation officer on request, it is obvious, because as if we do not carry out this kind of compilation, i.e. we do not have such a special situation, but the experience of family judges shows that they are trying to resolve these matters as soon as possible. These matters are recognised in family matters, which, in general, have a priority, as matters which need to be resolved in a particularly rapid manner. There are known cases where a probation officer can be appointed within a few days. They're known, of course. also cases - and then we react if we receive a complaint as the Ministry of Justice - when it takes several months. This is indeed too long a period. It seems that a maximum period of a few weeks, apart from some very specific situations, is a reasonable term and we will strive to ensure that it is not exceeded. We do not have any specific indications that this is a more serious, broader problem, but if you have this kind of information, we will be very happy to get acquainted with them and try to influence the courts so that these cases can be dealt with quickly enough, because care for the efficiency of judicial proceedings is, of course, within the competence of the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u85	Thank you very much. Before accession... No, we can't go to the next question because there's no minister. I see. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But he is a colleague, I understand, who introduced all the laws at the committee meeting, I saw, criminal.]] No, another minister is authorized in this case. So I'm announcing a three-minute break. We're waiting for the Minister. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 52 hours 10 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 19 of the agenda. Yes, are you the minister? The next question is asked by a large group of Members: Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Barbara Dolniak, Elżbieta Stępień, Mirosław Suchoń, Paweł Kobyliński, Witold Zembaczyński. Looks like the whole club's here, but I only see two people. As the first question asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, of course, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u86	We about Poland's presence in the European Union, and you are joking, the minister late - it is a total disrespect. Last Friday, a resolution of the TSUE has been issued that blocks the PiS law on purgatory in the Supreme Court. This resolution is a very clear signal that PiS is breaking the independence of the Polish justice system. Unfortunately, these political appetites of PiS politicians to take over other institutions are much greater than responsibility for Poles, for the future of Poland, which is why I have a question for Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister of Justice, although we all know that this question should be addressed to Jarosław Kaczyński. Are the PIS politicians going to comply with the TSUE? What are the PiS politicians going to do to implement this resolution? Which of the PiS politicians, and when, will present a report on the implementation of the Court's order? Do the ruling party and its representative at the Presidential Palace have any amendments to the Supreme Court Act? Will this possible amendment simply be another attempt by PiS politicians to deceive citizens and European institutions? In accordance with the ruling of the Court, will PiS politicians and their representatives in the National Courts refrain from electing further Supreme Court judges? Many times from the mouths of PiS politicians there were assurances that they would be read, that they would not get to know each other, even once there was no precise statement that they would not sabotage the implementation of this provision, that they would not question the implementation of this provision, nor once did any of the politicians of PiS have made it clear - yes, we will implement the order of the Court of Justice 100%. That is why we say: I am checking, we are asking and we expect very concrete actions, declarations and concrete actions. The future of Poland depends on it. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u87	Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will answer. In fact, there's a mistake, I'm sorry. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland complies with and will comply with European Union law. In a few points, I will refer to the question of the honourable Member. First, it should be pointed out that the provision in question was issued in the framework of the procedure under Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and thus its parties are the European Commission, on the one hand, and the Republic of Poland, on the other hand, which acts by its bodies. [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: PiS-Polish government.]] According to the operative part, we read that the Republic of Poland is obliged, firstly, to suspend the application of the three provisions of the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court and its novels which are the subject of the main proceedings. It should be pointed out here that these provisions have already had their effect, which is recognised by the Court in paragraph 18, indicating that, as is apparent from the proposal for interim measures, the contested provisions of national law have already begun to apply in the form of a transfer of a large number of judges at rest. This fact, in conjunction with the parallel increase in the number of judges by the President of the Republic and the publication of the notice, according to the information available to the Court, leads to a far-reaching, immediate change in the composition of the Supreme Court, which may also be further deepened by further new vocations. These provisions had their effect, firstly, and consequently, secondly, Poland was obliged to take measures to ensure that the Supreme Court judges affected by these provisions could serve in the same positions, using the same status, the same rights and conditions of employment as they had enjoyed before the entry into force of the Supreme Court Act. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We know that.]] Thirdly, Poland was obliged to refrain from any action to appoint new Supreme Court judges to these positions of Supreme Court judges to whom these provisions apply. Fourthly, to refrain from any action to appoint a new first President of the Supreme Court or to appoint a person to be appointed as the first President of the Supreme Court until the first President of the Supreme Court has been appointed. Fifthly, to inform on the actions taken on a monthly basis. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We know this, and half the time has passed.]] From the wording of the provision, it is paragraph 18 quoted by me, and from the substance of the order to suspend the application of national rules it follows that the Court of Justice of the European Union has confirmed the legal effects which have led to the contested provisions... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But we know it.]] ...so the transition to the rest of the Supreme Court judges, including the first President of the Supreme Court. Therefore, the implementation of the Court's order requires the creation of a legal basis for the so-called. suspension of the prescribed provisions of the Supreme Court Act and the legal basis for changing the status of judges transferred to retirement. Such an amendment must take account of the content of the Article. 178 of the Constitution, which expressly states that judges are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the National Council of Courts. As I said at the outset, the recipient of this provision is the Polish state acting by its organs... [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: PiS-Polish government.]] ...which have been required by the Court of Justice of the European Union to take certain measures. Therefore, this provision does not have direct legal effects on specific individual judges in the Polish law system, but only sets certain legal obligations on the part of the Polish State, specifically its authorities. Therefore, the Polish State complies with and will comply with European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Additional question... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Will the bill be prepared? You didn't answer the question of whether a bill would be prepared.]] Please, Madam, you no longer have the floor. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, also a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is some kind of hump, a complete scandal. But the Minister didn't answer the fundamental question. We need a declaration here and now. When are you going to start working on amending the Supreme Court Act? Is there any light bulb in this case with the president? Will it even apply to security measures? Will the PiS government follow the case of the Białowieża Forest and ignore security measures by breaking EU law and exposing the state budget to enormous losses? The declaration is needed here and now. How long before you respond effectively to the Supreme Court Act? Will it last as long as the engines of the Harvesters in the Białowieża Forest are extinguished? Today, it can be said that the Minister, who did not answer the fundamental question, when the work will begin, is one of such Harvesters of the Polish justice system, such an exhausting handle of the stability of the law in Poland, and to this breaking [[♪ The bell ♪]] EU Treaty rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u91	Oh, no, sir, I mean... Just hold back your emotions a little bit and keep a little culture. [[And you, Marshal, respect the opposition.]] Mr Marcin Warchoł corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome. [[Just answer the question, Minister, just tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u92	As I said at the outset, Poland will respect and comply with European Union law. [[Voice from the room: Lying, lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u93	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the response. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: In view of the above, the Polish Government will take appropriate legal steps... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And EU proceedings, Mr Marshal, are they?]] ...in order to implement the orders deriving from the order of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Like kids in kindergarten.]] I said it in Polish, I can say it in English as well as in another language. I don't know what else to call you. If it's about the Harvesters, yeah, we're the Harvesters fighting criminals. [[Applause]] and all those who carried millions out of the Polish state with your silent approval. It is about the VAT mafia and the whole complex structure that served to rob Polish taxpayers of money. Today, this money goes back to Polish children, to Polish families. The Act on Expansion Confiscation - almost 2 billion already recovered from the criminals of the VAT Mafia, over 30 billion in one year. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Will you respect this judgment? You don't answer the question.]] I wanted to say this, at this point I was informed that in 2017 there were 40 billion more VAT revenues compared to 2016. [[Applause]] It speaks for itself. That's right, we're scouts fighting criminals, all kinds of crooks, grifters, exploiters. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: EUR 60 billion, which Poland received.]] We have another very important change ahead of us. It is about amending the Penal Code, the Penal Procedure Code, which will speed up criminal proceedings, which will ensure that people can go to court for a quick, fair sentence respecting their rights and dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What about the Supreme Court Act?]] Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You do not respect European Union law and want to get Poland out of the Union. Those are the facts - inconvenient.]] Madam, please don't disturb me at the moment. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this sitting of the Sejm, the information on the "Clean Air" programme, which was introduced by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. Speech of the representative... Madame, you are not on TV or at home. Please don't disturb me. At the end of the discussion, they speak... [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: My role is to inform the citizens of the Republic of Poland about what is happening in the Republic.]] Please? Madame, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are interfering with the session of the Sejm. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Answering the question...]] At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mariusz Trepka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Clean Air is a comprehensive programme of the Government of Law and Justice aimed at reducing dust emissions and other pollutants entering the atmosphere in the case of single-family homes. For this purpose, huge funds have been mobilised in the form of grants and direct reliefs for people who cannot afford to replace the furnaces themselves and to modernise their homes. The fight against smog will take many years, but the current government of law and justice intends to fight this problem effectively. Poland is catching up on long-term delays, therefore the government's clean air programme consists to a large extent of multi-billion-dollar energy efficiency funds for the entire housing stock. During the PO-PSL coalition governments, very little was done to improve air quality and energy efficiency of the residential substance. So we make up for all that was then neglected. 33 Polish cities were included on the ugly list of cities led by the World Health Organization, which unfortunately is a legacy of our predecessors and which was confirmed by the European Court. No one's questioning that. The European Court found that nothing had been done by our predecessors in the years 2008 to 2015. For the next 10 years, over PLN 103 billion is dedicated to the replacement of furnaces and thermomodernization. It is important that the next generations, our children and our grandchildren, breathe clean air. The government, through these activities, also ensures that the heat bills are lower than the energy bills. The thermal modernisation programme will be a civilizational breakthrough in the next few years. It will certainly contribute to improving the quality of air, health and life of the people of our country. Minister! Due to the very high interest in the government's.Clean air scheme, the inhabitants of small towns are asking for consultation points to be launched in their municipalities where potential applicants will be able to receive assistance from the relevant persons in order to meet their applications for funding under the priority programme.Clean air and to obtain answers to their questions or concerns. I would like to ask the honourable Minister to consider this possibility with the help of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds. Ladies and gentlemen! This programme will really contribute to improving air quality in our homeland. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, sir, for taking up this subject. Indeed, the programme we have proposed has great interest. The problem that we are trying to solve in this way is extremely important because it affects the health and life of all citizens. In Poland the dominant source of the problem of inadequate air condition is the social and communal sector. The scale of air pollution in individual areas of Poland varies due to local conditions related to the density of buildings, terrain and climatic conditions. Air pollution is affected by inadequate spatial planning, which often contributes to blocking natural aeration corridors in city centres. The effects of emissions related to individual heating of buildings are indicated as the main cause of situations of exceedance of limit levels for PM10 particulate matter and for the target benzo (a) pyrene level. Importantly, despite the fact that we note - although very slowly but nevertheless - the improvement of air quality, there are still exceeding the limit levels and targets of some substances. This applies especially to PM10, PM2,5 dust, benzo (a) pyrene levels and often also to nitrogen dioxide levels. Where's this coming from? The most common use for building heating is solid fuels: coal, brown coal, and unfortunately also waste is burned. Cable ovens, heating boilers or low energy efficiency furnaces which do not guarantee adequate combustion conditions continue to be used. If we are talking about smog and air pollution, I think we should realise that about 45 000 die annually in Poland because of air pollution diseases. persons. It's like my hometown of Szczecinek with the entire surrounding community and all the residents died in one year. That's the scale of the problem we're talking about. Therefore, the fight against smog has become a priority not only for the Minister of the Environment but also for the entire government. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about this in his exposé. In September of this year, the government announced the programme you are asking about, which is the priority programme of clean air. Its aim is to improve energy efficiency and reduction of air emissions from existing single-family dwellings and avoid emissions from newly built buildings. The environmental effect of this programme is to reduce emissions to the atmosphere of the pollutants I have been talking about, i.e. particulate matter PM2,5, PM10, benzo (a) pyrene, but also carbon dioxide or sulphur dioxide. This is the first time this programme has been so comprehensive in terms of investment promoting deep thermal modernisation with higher standards, which obviously reduces operating costs. The programme is implemented in close cooperation with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management with the voivodship funds, to be implemented by 2029, i.e. for the next 10 years, and has been allocated huge resources, because more than PLN 100 billion. At the start of the programme a number of information meetings were held in individual municipalities, which took place since the beginning of September. And they're still going on. At these meetings, residents received comprehensive information about the programme, but were also informed about the impact of smog on their health and during these trainings indicated why not only for economic reasons - although they are also important - accession to the programme should be considered. We know that not only did the meetings have great interest, but today the number of applications submitted shows that this programme is a good programme. During the first month voivodship environmental funds adopted about 7.5 thousand. conclusions. All voivodship environmental funds have qualified and experienced staff of energy advisors. They are engaged in timely, effective and effective handling of the application. Unfortunately, staff resources do not allow the establishment of expert services in every municipality. However, I think - and this is also coming from the initiative of many local authorities, which I have heard about in my own region - that in many municipalities there will be support in individual local authorities by dedicating employees who will help those who will have the greatest problems with such a technical approach to the application. I think that this cooperation between voivodship funds, national funds and local governments is a very good way to achieve this goal - i.e. the 3 million farms that we would like to join the programme - has been achieved. For example, today we know that the biggest interest is enjoyed in Mazowieckie and Silesian voivodships. It is also worth noting that when it comes to the voivodship fund in Katowice, not only at the headquarters can you get additional information or assistance, but also at consultative points, which are also in Częstochowa, and in Bielsko-Biała, and in Katowice, and at the same time there is an infoline, which can also be used, nationwide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. A very large number of Members have come forward. Then I suggest you accept the question time for 1.5 minutes. Then there's a chance everyone will be able to speak. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Ewa Malik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Clean Air Priority Programme, implemented by the Ministry of the Environment, is designed to address the problem of emissions harmful to health and the environment of air pollution in a comprehensive manner. It was created, at least in part, as a result of the poverty of a part of the population living in single-family homes. The implementation of a comprehensive programme of clean air provides for both the exchange of heat sources and the thermomodernisation of single-family buildings. The efforts of the Law and Justice Government amounting to PLN 103 billion for the years 2018 to 2029 will help to increase the domestic budget of partly or often poor citizens, whole families, thanks to significant financial savings. Grants for many families up to 90% of eligible investment costs are already granted through 16 voivodship environmental and water management funds from 19 September. The resort of the environment predicts that over 3 million Polish houses will be completely modernised in terms of [[♪ The bell ♪]] increased energy efficiency. Therefore, I have this question: What conditions must be met to receive financial assistance, and how much can it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u99	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u100	...take it out, referring to the material situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u102	...the residents of single-family homes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u103	I didn't tell the Member that I would be...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u104	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u105	...to observe the discipline of time. But I'm warning you for the future. In order to fit in, we have to stick to this one and a half minutes. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to talk about this first slogan "Clean air," because it was 14 pious wishes, one of which was fulfilled in the form of a hollow regulation on boilers and the other in the form of an even worse regulation on the quality of fuels, which still... I'm saying it's a prolonged-expired poison. But I'm going to focus on the clean air program now, which is called the government program. This is allegedly because this is the way it is written, the priority programme of the national environmental fund. I will remind you of what the Prime Minister is saying, because nowhere in the documents is it: 103 billion PLN, in non-refundable form - 63,3, in the form of a loan - 39,7. Only that this programme, first of all, has no legal basis, no legal legitimacy, even in contrast to the local government or the thermal modernisation programme. But it's nothing. There is no legal basis for spending money in this country, but at least there must be sources of funding, and this programme of sources does not exist. Today we are after the meeting of the Environment Committee, where we have examined the draft budget in part: Environment and the financial plan of the national fund. There is not a penny in the environmental budget, and it is expected to be 10 billion a year. There's not a penny of money for this program. There's no money in the national fund, there's 1700 million grants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of which 1,400 million per road. Fraud, one big scam. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u108	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my view, clean air is a very effective measure to improve energy efficiency of single-family buildings and reduce dust and other air pollutants. It is very good that this is not a short-term program that only works periodically. It is a long-term programme that allows the owners of residential buildings to choose a convenient time to carry out the necessary work, also to obtain grants. I know that many owners of these properties are going to benefit from this program. In order to do so, they must collect, fill out many documents and also deliver them to the Regional Environmental and Water Management Fund. I would like to ask if the voivodship funds are prepared for efficient verification and implementation of the expected significant number of applications, as well as whether the establishment of local reception points is being considered, e.g. in the powiats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u109	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's probably a truism to say that smog doesn't come from anything, like electricity doesn't come from a socket. One of the most important sources of generation, the formation of this smog are the sources of electricity generation, which in a large part, are based in our country on conventional sources. In order to improve this situation, it is not only investment in renewable sources that is needed. There is also a need to improve these existing installations, especially the construction of new, more efficient ones, where we will burn less coal, where we will achieve more electricity. At the same time, we will lead to the situation that this issue will be less. And here's my question: What about the implementation of energy projects in our country? The installation in Kozienice was to be ready in July 2017 and was due in December. In the sense of the current government, that's okay. Okay, we're on time. What about installations with installation delays in Opole, Jaworzno, Turów? As far as the Turs are concerned, I apologize, Jaworzno, but Mr. Tauron, the President of the Energy Group, has left the committee without giving any answers. What about the construction of thermal insulation systems? There's delays everywhere. Is any installation being built at the present time, where there is no delay in the energy sphere, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which also aims to improve air quality? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Lech Kołakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u112	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Clean Air programme is another government programme supporting Polish families, in particular the poorer ones. Without this program, a large part of Polish families would not be able to afford to renovate and energy modernize their homes. I'd like to ask you two questions. The first concerns the extension of the residential building. How do we qualify the costs of this project in the case of the Clean Air programme? And second question: How much did the Podlaskie voivodship influence this moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, the paper is patient. From this tribune you can say exactly everything, but when you start counting, it turns out that you have zero or minus 100 million on this program. We are indeed after the environmental committee. The draft national budget of the fund for next year assumes own revenue of 1,700 million. In Parliament there is a bill that will take 1400 million to the local road fund, 300 million must be earmarked for geology, 100 million for environmental monitoring, which means you are already missing 100 million PLN. For now, the air protection programme from the National Environmental Fund is minus PLN 100 million. I know that the Prime Minister has been driving around Poland for many weeks and tells how Poles will be able to benefit from government support. I even declare that I will send one plate of Styrofoam to him so that at least one album anywhere in Poland really sticks. In fact, you're only cheating. All you've done is spend the money. The interesting thing is, I hope that you will answer this in a moment, which company organized for you this whole propaganda spectacle in Poland, all these meetings. I understand she was hired by the Ministry of the Environment. You spent your money on it. I'd like to know how much it cost. And finally, Minister, I would like to remind you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that voivodship environmental funds are a local legal person. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u115	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u116	So... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and in the state budget for this purpose is also 0 PLN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u117	I ask you to ask Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, I would ask you very much to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u118	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government has been rocking for almost 2 years with the Law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration. Thus the Minister of Energy was to prevent smog, the sale of coal, which causes smog, mules, moms and brown coal. You've described it in your bill, in your bill, in your explanatory statement, how you're gonna eliminate it, if brown coal doesn't go into combustion, it's gonna be destroyed. And what does it turn out to be? It turns out that practically all these assumptions that were written down, to which the Minister of the Environment actually drew the attention of the Minister of Energy, as regards these processes, as regards the Coal Quality Act, were practically blown up. Further in this law and in those regulations that have recently appeared, you can do practically what you want to do. That is not enough, you have also led to the fact that this coal from Russia is beginning to dominate the market. Already 71% of imports of coal from Russia are beginning to enter Poland and we are actually also maintaining this smog by burning some types of Russian coal. Minister! Do you think this regulation of the Minister of Energy or this law affects [[♪ The bell ♪]] to reduce emissions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u119	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Clean Air programme is a scheme in which individual owners of homes can receive funding for investment up to 53 thousand. zł. It could be 90%. free help, but maybe 10% be financed by loans that can be granted for many years. This programme is very interesting. Of course, the greatest interest is among those who have the lowest income. I had the pleasure to participate in the trainings that were organised in the recent period, on how to use the programme to finance not only the exchange of furnaces, but also the possibility to finance the replacement of windows, the heating of the house or e.g. Roof replacement, total heating. Dear Minister, Many mayors, mayors, communes' hosts declare that they can create places where assistance will be given to people when drawing up appropriate proposals. But most of the time, they want to benefit from this program, people who often have low incomes and often find it harder to deal with such procedures, including office proceedings. Shouldn't such recommendations be considered by law, e.g. social assistance centres or other municipalities [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have they appointed an employee to help you do this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u121	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The government's actions in the field of clean air resemble a board game, where the moving pawn goes to the grid with the inscription: back to the beginning of the game. Every few months new initiatives are announced to improve air quality. A particular increase in this matter occurs in the government at the top of the heating season, when pollution reaches the zenith. Then we learn that the government is planning once again a holistic, strategic, comprehensive action for clean air. It's been going on for three years. I feel that the principle of Minister Sławoj Składkowski still applies: say something, do something, move, that is, chaos, temporary, moving from wall to wall. We proposed as a Civic Platform club to work together on an effective clean air agenda. We have put together an appropriate bill in this area. You even rejected him without trying to reflect on his validity. Minister! We're going to re-submit this project. The question is whether the Minister would like to see him and approach him in substance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u123	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u124	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the tools to combat low emissions is air quality measurements. I have a question as to whether the government intends to expand its air quality monitoring system as part of the fight against low emissions. The question concerns especially the cities of Silesian Voivodeship and Jaworzna - we have been seeking such a station for more than 2 years. Second question: Is it true that the PiS government, announcing a clean air program, at the same time allows the burning of the worst quality coal, including brown coal, in households? Whether such households can count on this programme for funding, among others. thermomodernization? And is it true that the PiS government, declaring in the fight against low carbon emissions, allows for a galloping increase in this import and at the same time a reduction in mining in coal companies controlled by the State Treasury? This in turn determines the rise in household carbon prices and does not promote the fight against emissions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u125	Thank you. I ask you to ask Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u126	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Clean air is a program long awaited by Polish society, by Polish families. The implementation of this programme will reduce air pollution, but also increase the budget of Polish families, especially the poorer ones. Thank you to the staff of the Ministry of the Environment, Minister for such good solutions. Interested people come to my office with various questions about the implementation of this program. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. What is the interest, mainly in the Mazowieckie voivodship, in this program? How are you going to do that, how can you promote information about where interested persons may come up with specific questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u127	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Recently, i.e. Already at the end of September and in October, I attended several meetings with residents of some municipalities in my constituency, during which the Clean Air programme was presented. The program was presented by the employees of the Legnica branch of the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Wrocław and was very well presented. The interest in this program was very high. Many questions have already been asked here, and I will ask you a question about the financing of this programme. When are the first payments from this programme and to what extent were the funds secured for next year, including for Lower Silesia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u129	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u130	Minister! The Clean Air programme is indeed a bold, versatile programme and is beyond our expectations. The predecessors have done nothing about this for 8 years, for which Poland must now pay the penalty. We hear from the opposition that there is no money for this either, as we have heard in the case of 500+, that there is no money or expedition that there will be and there is no money. And then it turned out that there was money, and they would even offer - they promise - that they would add more. So this is the integrity of these speeches, this is the attitude of the Members of the opposition. I have a question for you about the furnace change. If someone has two old stoves: gas and coal, can they make the exchange - and receive funding - on a new generation stove and what stove in this case? Second line. The point is that local authorities co-financed around 20% of the costs of replacing boilers from EU funds. If anybody uses this, they can no longer benefit, I believe, from this subsidy under the Clean Air programme, which is higher, because for rich people it is up to 30% and for poor people - up to 90%. Isn't it worth thinking about combining these two projects so that one doesn't get ahead of the other, making it impossible to use the other? Then this funding would in both cases - both for the richest ones and for the poorest ones - be much greater. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u131	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u132	Indeed, there is a need to increase the number of consultation points.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u133	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Ministry declares PLN 103 billion to improve air quality by 2029. The programme is spread over 10 years and should therefore be secured annually by PLN 10 billion. Unfortunately, these commitments are made without financial coverage, which is unacceptable in every area and in particular in the public sphere. The Minister declares the security of funds in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. And I ask how this is possible, since the national fund has for 2019 secured funds for the amount of PLN 1700 million, of which 1,400 million are funds for local roads. There will be little left for the Clean Air programme, because only 300 million PLN. Applications shall be accepted and no measures shall be taken. So there's pure propaganda instead of clean air. Another PR-action is virtual rights to CO2 emissions. This plan is criticised by both local governments and Greenpeace. Here, for public money, several companies, including the largest poisoners, are pretending to take action for the climate. Minister! We need to finish cutting down forests, not doing virtual action again. Because it is precisely the large trees that make the air clean. Another example is the draft law on thermomodernisation, the beneficiaries of which are the owners of family homes. As a result of this law, local governments will lose 2 billion PLN, because the government does not [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u135	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u136	...compensate local governments with losses due to a reduction in the receipts of local governments' participation in PIT. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u137	I would like to ask Mr Duda, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Within the framework of the government's "Clean Air" programme, a priority programme has been prepared to allow owners of single-family homes to apply for funding for the thermomodernisation of buildings. The priority programme focuses on thermomodernisation and efficient energy management in households, which will reduce the amount of heat consumed and provide real financial savings. It will also benefit the environment by reducing emissions of dust, greenhouse gases and other substances. The priority programme "Clean air" is the possibility of obtaining financial support from individuals, owners of single-family cottages, for the warming of houses, for the replacement of windows or for the replacement of old high-carbon heating boilers. The environment resort has prepared a series of educational and informational meetings consisting of three thematic blocks. The first relates to environmental education, the second part informs about the possibility of obtaining funding from the priority programme.Clean air, and in the third part we will learn how to apply properly for funding for the thermomodernization of the house. And for these meetings, I would like to thank the Ministry warmly. I have questions: Can everyone use this program? What are the limits? Can people who start building a house apply for funding? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u139	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Halicki a question. There isn't. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Ministry very warmly for the Clean Air programme. I've been to a lot of meetings, things were different with attendance, but it was usually good. On the other hand, I would like to raise the issue of further promotion of this programme. Namely, there are cases that the authentic inhabitants of Poland do not know about this program. I think that, after the local elections, local government officials will promote this program more. Mayor Brus proposed that one of the meetings be followed to help the residents fulfill their requests. A very valuable initiative, because at another meeting I saw residents leaving in the fall of life who said: "We can't do it. This program contains two elements: first, clean air, second, helping people, especially in the fall of life, who can convert the source of heat into a source that will not require their effort. Minister! I'm asking you a question. How could the Ministry promote this programme even more, with what tools for all Polish residents to do so? Because the program is very good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u141	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is planned for 10 years. And smog right now, you can say, kills many people in Poland. I am from Wrocław, where practically from the moment when they start burning in furnaces, until early spring PM2.5 concentration is very high. I see the effects of this in the Clinic of Cape Hope on beds. It is known that PM2,5 causes respiratory disorders, affects pathogenesis, causes many diseases, including cancers. I have a question because it's all too slow. Children who are born at the moment, who are in the wombs of mothers, will be 10 years old in 10 years and will already have within themselves, will feel the effects of what is now. Please tell us how many people in Wroclaw have already asked for help under this programme. Do you foresee other methods of fighting for fresh air, not just the replacement of furnaces? It is known that it is a matter of too little green, as well as the influence of car traffic and so-called. poisoners who are different in every region. You have to do something and you have to do it quickly and effectively, because the health of Poles and Poles is the most important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u143	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Maria Zuba, the Platform... Law and Justice. [[Applause]] There isn't. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The program of fresh air is of course very much needed for Polish society, when we consider how bad air we have in many regions of our country. I think that we need to really realise this and not talk about what we're going to do, but really start to act and implement the provisions and, above all, the projects that will help improve air quality. How can it be explained if Russian coal flows a wide stream to Poland? This year, in 2018, we will record the record level of imports of coal from Russia, that is 70% all the imports that are in our country. This year, Minister, we will exceed more than twice the amount of imported coal from Russia in relation to what was still affecting 5, 7 years ago. 17 billion tons of coal is entering our country. We pay for it, we don't modernize our mines, we don't help our coal extraction, and we pay huge money for Russian coal. And it was supposed to be all national and Polish. How does that relate to your assurances? And also... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u145	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to ask Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Clean Air programme is very well received by society. Poles are very active in meetings organized by voivodship environmental funds, but there are questions, but I have some questions noted during these meetings. Is the replacement of the roof a qualified cost or just its warming? Do residents have to do market research on the purchase of materials and selection of performers? If so, how can they do so? What documents do they need? If someone has a house in a strict closed state, or during construction, can they use the Clean Air program? If so, what can be applied for funding? When there are two heat sources for solid fuel in a residential building, e.g. stove and fireplace, is there an obligation to permanently remove both sources, or will it be just this one mentioned furnace? Is it possible to apply to the program for the same house in two stages, e.g. in 2018 we submit one application, for the replacement of the boiler, and in subsequent years, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. in 2020...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u147	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u148	Shall we put the other one together?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u149	I would like to ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u150	What do we understand by using the deadline: the completed task?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u151	You don't have an MP? Mr Andrzej Czerwiński. There isn't any either. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the information meetings concerning the project, clean air, the residents were very distrustful about this project and kept saying that if the Civic Platforms did not take something, the government did not give it. And here it turns out that the Government of Law and Justice really allows money to be used. But I have this question: Will the owners of new homes be able to receive funding or other support in terms of obtaining support? It goes on for example. to be equipped with a photovoltaic installation or so-called "voltaic installation." solar panels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u153	Thank you. The question is asked by Ewa Kołodziej. There isn't. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The program is beginning to arouse great interest. This is probably also the result of these information meetings, but it stimulates imagination and provokes further questions. I have already met several times with questions, not from house owners, houses, but from co-operatives from housing cooperatives, also the inefficient ones who are aware of the problems of air pollution, but also the whole issue of thermomodernization. The question is whether there is work to be done or whether there is any prospect for them to also hope that some elements of support for thermomodernisation initiatives, the exchange of boiler rooms will apply precisely to cooperative housing in buildings that have actually been created in a technology that does not guarantee savings or does not guarantee the implementation of this mission when it comes to the care of clean air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u155	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, points of information about the Clean Air programme began to function. I wanted to ask you how many such points work, what is the cost of their operation, how they were decided about the location of such places, for example. In Żywiec, in the city with the most polluted air, there is no such point, it has not been activated. The resin is over 152,000. residents. Wanting to benefit from the "Clean Air" programme must go to Bielsko-Biała in order to get answers to doubts. Is there any chance that such a point will be launched in Life? Someone who was hoping to warm up or replace the furnace in even a small building will not benefit from this program. It would be a way of revitalizing private houses that their owners can't afford. It is also a huge problem of the city of Life. Minister! The Clean Air programme was intended to eliminate smog, but unfortunately it is another law that Poles will not benefit from, because the income criterion, PLN 600, prevents those who apply for funding. Either you're changing the profit criteria, and it's actually gonna help you eliminate the smog, or you're pretending to want to help. Such information [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've got it from the residents, from the Parliamentary Office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u157	Thank you, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u158	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Clean Air programme is the first ever programme, such a large programme, which concerns citizens of the Republic of Poland - individuals - who have their own single-family homes. This is what I have called for a dozen years before. I remember that in 2008, when I was in the national environmental fund, there was no mention of that at all. Now it has finally happened and we have a clean air programme worth over PLN 100 billion by 2029. People ask a lot of questions in the field. The interest is enormous. Since September 26th, as I just learned in the environmental committee, 7 thousand have already been submitted. conclusions. So it was worth going out to people and giving them this opportunity, but here's the question: Will such a good program last until 2029? Will this government, and possibly the future, have enough money for this program, which will actually reduce smog in the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u159	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u160	Minister! Dear Marshal! Does the Ministry have accurate data on heat sources in its territory, owned by municipalities, cities, powiats? Did the local authorities carry out an inventory of their heat sources in their territory? If not, should the Ministry in any way force such inventory in the municipalities? This would give us accurate information about the quantity and location of the so-called. Cinderella and their ability to connect to other energy sources, e.g. The pipeline. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u161	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no need to talk about the importance of this programme for the public and also for the health of Poles. We all know what low emissions are. This is why this government programme also responds to the health needs of our society. The program gives Poles the opportunity to list old, outdated heating systems and install new, modern, more energetic ones in their homes. My question is: Is it possible to think about including photovoltaic sources in the program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u163	Thank you very much. I'm closing the list of speakers. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mariusz Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Clean Air Program. If this program were introduced 10 years ago, I think that society, Poles at the moment might already be breathing cleaner air. I also do not understand the statements made by some Members of the opposition that there may be a shortage of resources, as they said, that there are no funds for the 500+ programme. We need to do everything we can to ensure that these resources are sufficient, and these resources will be for our children, our grandchildren and the next generations to really breathe clean air. Thank you to all those who are concerned about the fact that clean air is of poor quality, that we want to make sure that we breathe cleaner air. And let us think about it together, how to do and what to do, so that really in a few, several years in Poland there is cleaner air and that - and our children, and the next generations - we can breathe cleaner air. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! There's a lot of interest in today's topic, and that's very good. A lot of substantive questions, which is also exciting. Unfortunately, I have the impression that many Members of the opposition have used today's debate to scare Poles again. I don't know if the results of the last election really didn't make you realize that it wasn't working anymore? Really, it's not working anymore. The money is gone and it won't work. I also think it is worth realizing, however, that the Law and Justice that have already shown us that we are removing words such as 'no' from the dictionary. Yeah, I can do that. And if you did what we do now, when you had the opportunity to rule, today we would solve completely different problems, and unfortunately we are only at the beginning of the road when we solve the basic problems of Poles. Like I said, about 45 grand. people die annually due to diseases caused by low air quality. Isn't that really enough for us to start discussing substantively? Now I'm going to answer very specific questions. I think I'm going to use a flyer that probably all those who attended meetings have also received. This is a compendium of basic information on how to benefit, what to benefit from, how to obtain funding and at what level. Such flyers are sold during all meetings that took place and continue in our country, and it is also worth using them. And now, in terms of funding, which was the most important question and promotion: Next year, in 2019 a total grant of over PLN 1 billion is planned, of which the national grant fund will allocate PLN 880 million and the voivodship funds will total over PLN 380 million. This is the same year 2019. As far as information about the programme is concerned, the assumption is that the meetings took place in every municipality of our country and are still taking place. There are also repeated meetings in municipalities where there was low attendance, because most of the time at the very beginning of the programme, when this information had not yet reached everyone, the interest was not sufficient. We want to repeat these meetings there so that we can also give opportunities to those who have not been able to attend such meetings so far. This is not enough: we are also considering a media campaign that could also start after all these training meetings have been completed. We want these meetings to continue until the end of October, exactly until October 26. There was a question about the company that prepared the meetings in the municipalities. That is what Mr Gawłowski asked. This is Berm's company. She was solely responsible for organizational issues, i.e. finding a place, determining the time and providing information. On the other hand, as far as all expert issues are concerned, it was the participation of voivodship environmental funds, the voivodship environmental inspection, of course the Ministry of Environment, and in many cases also involved, as I said, local government officials. The specific question was how many applications were submitted in each voivodship. The question was about Bialystok. Mr Kołakowski, 576 applications have been submitted. In the Mazowieckie voivodship so far, it is the state of 19 October, 996 applications. Of course, the highest number of applications were submitted in the Silesian Voivodeship - 1125 applications. And there was a question about Wroclaw. So far, 746 applications have been submitted. And now for more questions. Who can be the beneficiary? The beneficiaries may be natural persons holding ownership or joint ownership of an existing single-family building or, in the case of newly built buildings, persons authorised to commence construction. The minimum value of eligible costs of the project is 7 000. PLN, while the maximum amount of eligible costs from which the grant is calculated is 53 thousand. zł. The total budget is PLN 103 billion in non-refundable form, i.e. more than PLN 60 billion and in loan form almost PLN 40 billion. As far as the types of projects are concerned, the basis is, of course, to begin with, to replace the heat source with those which meet the conditions of the programme. And another topic to buy is the installation of this source with connections. The exterior and interior partitions of the building can then be warmed up, an external woodwork can be replaced, renewable energy installations, solar collectors or photovoltaic micro-installations can be purchased and installed, and it is worth noting that only loans can be sought for collectors and photovoltaics. During this discussion there were also many accusations that the actions were late, that nothing was actually done, so I think it is worth pointing out, as I said, that the priority of the current government is to reduce the phenomenon of low emissions. This is confirmed by the fact that in March this year, a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers for the Clean Air Programme was appointed by the order of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is the task of this representative to monitor and analyse the implementation of the actions resulting from the recommendations of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, which are necessary in connection with the existence of high concentrations of pollution in the air in a significant area of the country, i.e. so-called. Clean air, and propose measures to optimise its implementation. I think it is also worth noting that, within the framework of the ministry's competences, we are initiating numerous legislative, technical and financial measures aimed at improving air quality. In order to increase the accuracy of the quality assessment, i.e. the so-called. Diagnosis of the scale of the problem and identification of areas where standards are exceeded, the resort is carrying out activities aimed at strengthening the air quality measurement system, among others. through the purchase of air quality measuring equipment and the creation of new stations and measuring stations. If I remember correctly, Mr Paweł Bańkowski asked this question, if I wrote it correctly. The Chief Inspector of Environmental Protection has been purchasing measuring and testing equipment for air quality monitoring networks belonging to the WIŚ since 2016 under the Operational Programme. To date, air quality monitoring in Poland has been reinforced by 83 pieces of these measuring devices. During the delivery there are another 32 pieces, including 16 mobile stations. The cost of the equipment purchased so far amounted to nearly PLN 20 million. I see I'm running out of time. There's still a lot I'd like to say. Of course, all the questions that I have not been able to answer now will be answered in writing. I also think it is worth noting, however, that many of the actions that we have taken, for example, the amendment of the Environmental Inspection Act, the amendment of the Environmental Law, indicates that [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in a situation where the previous government has led to many negligence, many delays in action, which also results in a negative judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And all those delays over the last three years, we've been trying to make up for it. We start with what is most urgent for us, which is changing the law, while putting more emphasis on compliance with standards. We give the right authorities tools for better control and provide financial support so that, above all, those with the lowest income, among the so-called. energy poverty could first benefit from it and benefit from non-refundable subsidies up to 90% the eligible costs incurred. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u167	Thank you. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Clean Air programme is the first programme to treat the smog problem in Poland in general. The beneficiaries of the scheme may be natural persons holding ownership rights or co-owners of the building. Thanks to this program, owners of single-family homes can also apply for funding for the thermomodernization of buildings. The priority programme focuses on thermomodernisation and efficient energy management in households, which will reduce the amount of heat consumed and allow for real financial savings. Minister! Is it necessary to replace the emission boiler? In many farms there are gas furnaces of the old generation. Are they also subject to the conditions of this programme? Can local authorities be expected to cooperate in the implementation of this programme? Can local authorities actively participate in the implementation of this programme? If so, how? Many owners sublet parts of their properties. Are there any restrictions in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u169	On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 70th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. There isn't. In that case, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u170	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Where there would be a better place, more honorable to thank and express gratitude, if not in the Polish Parliament, in front of the High House. I would like to thank all Gliwice residents who took part in the local elections on their behalf and on behalf of the candidates for Law and Justice in Gliwice. Your presence at ballot boxes and voting were an expression of commitment to the good of Gliwice. I would also like to congratulate my opponent, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, on the outcome. Mine was pretty good, too. For my part, I declare further hard work and full commitment to our city and the good of the inhabitants of Gliwice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u171	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the issue of the current oncology network from the point of view of oncology and childhood haematology. Paediatric oncology is a completely different story than adult oncology. Tumours in children arise quickly, kill even more quickly. Therefore, I was a little terrified to put only one doctor in the oncology control body, who is a child oncologist by education, except, of course, Professor Czauderny, who is also a child surgeon. However, this is far too little for 21 people, and so I appeal - which I also called for at committee meetings and the team where this project was presented - to increase the number of pediatricians. Why? Because oncology is quite different in children than in adults. Theoretically, it's the same chemotherapy, the same surgical radiotherapy, the same development of tumours and transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells, but as I said at the beginning, time for children runs a lot faster and this time cannot be wasted, because - I've talked about it many times - everything can be changed, you can reconcile and argue, you can build a bridge and tear it down, but the child from that side will not go back. And I'm really worried that if the oncologists who treat adults decide on the oncology of children, it may not be good. The voice, to be heard, must also have an appropriate parity in every body that controls any institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-sejm-70-2.u173	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 70th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 71st session of the Sejm, convened on 7th, 8th and 9th November 2018, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 12 min 16]]
