ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u1	I open the 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Rafał Ambrozik to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 6 May 2018 there was an explosion in the Zofiówka mine in Jastrzębie-Zdrój. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims of this catastrophe. [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the fiftieth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items one, nine, ten and eleven of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that you change the order: consider point two, i.e. Act on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities and considering it as the first item of the agenda; examination of the fourth point, i.e. Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda; consideration of item one, i.e. Act amending the Government Departments Act and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act and consider this item as the fourth item of the agenda, after the point on the Law on the provision of health care. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Dear Senators, I propose a joint examination of the points from the 12th to the 15th, i.e. the laws on the termination of agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Bogdan Klich.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of our Group of Senators of the Civic Platform, I request a photo from the agenda of item 16, i.e. the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code, especially since the committee has given it a negative opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u3	Second reading of the bill amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[That's right.]] And that's what you're proposing to endure, isn't it? [[Voices out of the room: Take them off.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Remove from order.]] Yeah, take it off. Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u4	I'm filing the counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u5	There's a motion against the senator. [[Why?]] [[Because this is our initiative.]] [[But why, Mr. Marshal?]] But, Senator, I haven't asked you before either: why? Well, these questions, why? You can ask so much that... There's a conclusion... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Yes... But about what?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u6	About the formal issue. It was yesterday at the Human Rights Committee meeting and the committee decided to postpone the debate on this project by two months. That's why it's like this, not another senator's proposal. That's why I'd ask... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would ask you to support this motion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u7	Wait a minute. Don't clap yet. Mr. Senator Martynowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u8	Okay, ladies and gentlemen, then I withdraw this request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u9	I mean, you're withdrawing your objection to the motion. If I don't hear... I'm officially, and technically, I'm gonna say it. There's a motion from Senator Bogdan Klich to delete the 16th point. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the High House's proposal to the senator... We don't have to vote because there's no... [[Voice from the room: No. If there isn't...]] There's no objection, and neither am I. Then we all agree to this proposal and there will be no point sixteen. We are not voting on this proposal because there is no objection to the proposal. Does anyone else want to speak? Who among your senators would like to speak on the agenda? Nobody. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, this is important information now, so please be quiet. I would like to inform you that the vote on the second item on the agenda, i.e. The Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws, we will proceed today after the third point concerning the Act amending the Act on Health Care Benefits. If there are legislative proposals, of course there will be a break and after the break we will proceed to the vote. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, although this is unknown. Tomorrow, i.e. On Thursday, at 10:00 p.m., we will begin our deliberations... We will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. and start by hearing information about the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. The debate on the 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th agenda will begin on Friday, 11 May. I would like to inform you that, following the preparation of the reports by the relevant Senate committees, the agenda may be completed, inter alia. on the following laws, which are the subject of the proceedings of the current sitting of the Sejm: the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws; the law amending the social pension law; the law on special arrangements supporting persons with significant disabilities; the law on the processing of passenger traffic data; the law on the protection of personal data; the law amending the law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. The agenda may also be supplemented by other laws adopted by the Sejm at its current meeting. I would like to inform you that the current sitting may be extended by an additional day, i.e. May 15th, and I would say that about additional days, i.e. May 15th and May 16th. That's what we agreed at the Seniors Convention. I'll have the script to point one, please. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants and persons employed in the financial sector. The text of the Act is contained in print No 781, and the Commission's reports In print Nos 781 A and 781 B. Please, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance... I don't see the rapporteur... [[There it is, there it is.]] But it wasn't reported. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Bierecki was to report...]] Reported? No? So what do you say? That needs to be reported. Who'd he report to? Well, he didn't report it. Okay, I'll get to it later. Right now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u10	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! I am very pleased to be able to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the meeting held on 26 April this year on the rules for obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants and persons employed in the financial sector. The Act of 12 April 2018 on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities is to introduce a legal mechanism enabling employers providing services on the financial market to verify persons employed in positions relating to special liability and to applicants for employment in such positions for the criminality of certain categories of offences. The drafters of the law considered that information about the non-punishment of the employed person and the candidate for work is particularly important for entrepreneurs operating in the financial market. This is due to the scale of the risks posed by such activities and the need to protect the interests of market participants, including, in particular, customers of financial sector entities, from unfair practices. The law was passed by the Sejm at its 60th first meeting on 12 April and is the result of a government submission. The bill was not subject to controversy or substantial changes. 430 Members voted in favour of the bill. No one voted against and two Members abstained. During the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Minister Halady was present and Mr Michał Hara, representative of the Ombudsman's Office. The Minister emphasized in his speech that the main objectives of the Act are to increase the security of the financial sector itself, and thus of economic turnover, to increase the safety of people who use financial services, and of people who place their savings in banks, to increase the competitiveness of Polish companies that work for the financial sector, and to increase the attractiveness of investments of Polish companies. The project is a response to many times and for years the demands of business organizations, as well as potential investors, as we have learned from the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. The Commission voted unanimously and asks for the law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Please explain the matter to the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Finance discussed the Law on 19 April. I'm not gonna say what my friend already said. The bill did not raise controversy among the members of our committee and was unanimously supported. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Any of you ladies and gentlemen want to ask a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u14	Thank you very much. I'd have a question for the finance committee. This is a question of the following nature. Well, I understand that this law lists 63 types of entities operating in the wider financial sector, e.g. banks, investment funds, etc. My question is this. These are the people who work within these institutions. Does the law specify which persons are to be required to provide a non-punishment certificate? Or is it the head of the institution, on the basis of internal rules, that will determine which persons have in their work a direct link with the property and financial resources of their clients? That's the first question. And the second question, in connection with information in the media space about the financial difficulties of one of the companies listed on the stock exchange that dealt with the recovery. I do not mention its name, but I think the House knows which company it is. Will the employees of this entity be subject to this right if this law becomes the law in force in the Republic of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u15	Thank you, Senator. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Senator. There were two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Act defines the types of economic operators of the widely understood public finance sector and not only, because other institutions are also mentioned in the Act. The head of such an institution may, but he doesn't have to. And that is the essence of this law, to ask an employee who is already employed or in the process of recruitment, to request from him first, in the first phase, only a statement, and then, ultimately, a certificate from the national register of convicted persons. These are specific types of offences; they are enumeratively listed in this law. It's an opportunity, not an obligation. Whether they want to use it or not... As far as the scope of the positions is concerned, these positions are here, I would say, generically listed There's no enumerative calculation, because these are banks... Well, everybody's a little different about positions. They're descriptive, arealy... And so on. Financial analysts, tellers, etc. The Act lists which persons dealing with a given range of cases in those institutions may require the employer to provide this certificate. As far as the second question is concerned, yes, if we're thinking about the same company. This company will be subject to this law, because it is a company that deals with recovery, i.e. broadly understood financial services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u17	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Mariusz Haladyj. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Are there any questions for the Minister? There's a call. You're welcome, Minister, to the pulpit. There's a question from Senator Jackowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a technical question. Do you have any idea how long this kind of certificate is expected from the relevant institution, what is the period? Could this be a problem for an employee who is applying for a job? Because different were... I'll admit, I don't know how long it's been waiting right now, but I do know there was a time when that deadline was quite long, which made it difficult for a lot of people... Because you had to sign up for a queue, there was some order of issuing these certificates, etc. What's it look like right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u19	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u20	The waiting time is now short, because today it is issued almost immediately, especially if the person is not punished. So this waiting time today is no longer a problem. The KRK is largely electronized today, so it runs smoothly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u21	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! It's a very good bill, and I think there's absolutely no doubt about it. We would like to say, especially after our various experiences in our socio-economic life in recent years: well, it is a pity that this law enters into force so late at all. But, as you can see, certain processes and sealing of the system, I would say, on some guarantee... If something operates in a particular country within a certain legal order, it is a long-term process. And also adapt to the different trends that arise in economic life, different financial products, different institutions offering such services... And what he now spends in the eyes of all financial institutions is mostly these famous online thefts that are happening. What we have in this regard is quite alarming information that reaches the public. This is particularly true for the banking sector. Because if by electronic means certain operations are carried out, by means of today's means and organizing a criminal, it can be relatively easy simply to steal someone's identity, access to all these logins, to all those codes that enable certain operations to be carried out. And I think that's one of the elements, too. Especially this data leak, which is a problem at the moment, is very significant. And here, with great recognition, one more judicial judgment should be mentioned, here I am thinking of the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment, which made it clear that, in the event that the client loses funds in his bank account not because of his fault, and as a result of criminal activity, there are no consequences. It is then the bank that bears the consequences and is obliged to compensate for the losses that the customer has suffered. This is, I think, groundbreaking in our system, because this, of course, requires financial institutions to pay particular attention to respect for the right to secrecy and the use of various electronic safeguards which simply apply and which are crucial to the security of the funds collected. High Izbo, in support of this bill, I would like to speak as a historian about another method used in the past. And I know this from the historical descriptions of the Austro-Hungarian bank from the period before World War I. Well, High Izbo, as you know, at that time money was based on a gold parette, so central banks also had special warehouses, vaults, where money was collected for gold. E.g. There was a vault in Vienna where hundreds of tons of gold were collected as simply a volume on which money could be emitted. And what did it look like to take bankers into the Austro-Hungarian bank? This is a very educational anecdote. It happened in completely different realities, without polygraphs, without different devices, without electronics, without the ability to check, to obtain different information. Well, it looked very simple. They simply took such an adept to the vault, they gave him a specific task, e.g. To count the gold bars in some sector, how many of these bars are, and observed by the Judas. When the adept entered the vault, he saw so much gold and made some strange faces or behaved strangely, then he was removed from his further banking career, or at least from accessing live cash. Because then the cashier paid out live cash, there were no electronic transfers. And if he was wearing snaps, he was taking paper, a briefcase, and he was counting on it calmly, if the gold didn't impress him, then he was going through this test, and he was qualified for further proceedings. I am talking about the fact that each epoch is designed to meet its capabilities and needs by financial control instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u23	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 799 and the report of the Commission In print No 799 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a bill amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. This law was addressed to us by the Sejm on 13 April this year, and on 26 April it was examined at a meeting of the Health Committee. This Act is the result of an in-depth analysis of the functioning of the State Medical Rescue System, especially with regard to medical dispatchers, the role of medical dispatcher, the possibility of using modern ICT technologies in the area of coordination of the activities of individual medical participants at the site and outside of the event. The project also takes into account the changes that have taken place since the entry into force of the Act on State Medical Rescue, in particular as regards the functioning of the State Medical Rescue Command Assistance System, hereinafter referred to as the PRM SWD, introduced by the Act of 22 November 2013 on the emergency notification system. I will concentrate on a few threads that are, I think, very important in the context of this law. The first thread concerns the medical dispatcher. In view of the changes adopted by the Minister of Health in 2011 in the area of the organisation of the emergency notification system, this concept assumes the gradual restructuring of dispatch centres. From 2011 to today, i.e. over 6 years, there has been a gradual reduction in medical dispatch. In 2011 these dispatchers in the country were 338, at the moment in Poland there are 42 medical dispatchers. Each voivodship will have 1 medical office until 1 January 2028, with the exception of the Śląskie and Mazowieckie voivodship, where the law provides for 2 medical dispatches. It is associated with more inhabitants in these voivodships. The creation of these multi-station medical dispatchers will improve the management of medical rescue teams and bring tangible benefits, mainly in the form of shortening the arrival time of medical rescue teams to the site and their better coordination. The medical office, which manages more medical rescue teams, has a greater capacity to coordinate medical actions, especially in the event of events with a large number of victims. From 1 January 2021, the medical office will be the organisational unit of the voivodship office and its operational area will be covered by the operational area to which contracts are concluded with the benefit payer. The employment of medical dispatchers by voivodships on the basis of a contract of employment is as if in the whole of this novel aimed at stabilising and ensuring continuity of operation of the system of State Medical Rescue. During the transitional period, i.e. from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2020, medical dispatchers shall remain in the organisational structures of the medical rescue team administrators. The fact that in 2021 the medical dispatchers will be transferred to the structure of the voivodship offices is compatible with the fact that the voivode is responsible for the medical security plans and that it will have a decisive impact on the functioning of these dispatchers. In addition, it is the equipment used in emergency call centres and dispatch centres, which is owned by the voivodship. Another important point is that we introduce an obligation for the voivode to employ and provide psychological support for medical dispatchers. Indeed, some events with which they come into contact have a profoundly negative impact on their psyche, and thus, as in the case of police or military officers and the State Fire Department, the voivode will have to provide such access to care and psychological support to medical dispatchers. Another important issue that appears in this Act is the establishment of the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue. This centre will be set up in the structures of the air rescue team's authorising officer and supervised by the Minister responsible for Health. The center's gonna take care of, like, two pawns. First of all, it will operate the State Medical Rescue Command Support System and will run the training section. In the first vertical it will actually administer this system, modify it, expand it, organise tenders that will have to be made for the purchase of new equipment to operate this system. Other important activities that will be carried out at the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue concern the scope of training. This centre will provide courses to work as a voivodship medical emergency coordinator, a course to work as a medical dispatcher, an excellent course for medical dispatcher. It will also monitor the course of medical actions in events that have caused sudden health risks to many people. It will also develop tests for the initial qualification of candidates for employment in the positions of medical dispatchers and regional medical rescue coordinators in this area. And this is like the second element, very important in my opinion, of this law. The last element I would like to focus on, Mr. Marshal, is the publicisation of the system of State Medical Rescue. This is a point that was actually raised and quite intensely discussed at the meeting of our committee. The bill involves publicising in the non-hospital sector the state medical rescue, i.e. in the area of health services carried out by health care providers from medical rescue teams. The aim of this solution is to strengthen the impact of the State on the health safety of citizens who are in a state of sudden health or life-threatening situation. The publicisation of this system is being introduced because it is a very important social interest to provide medical assistance in the face of threats, not only in situations such as sudden illness, such as medical accidents, but also in such situations as we must count on. For example: terrorist attacks. Failure to make this public would pose a risk of such a situation that a private administrator could make the provision of health services conditional on obtaining a contract to the extent that satisfies it. Well, we can't afford that at some point in some areas the ambulance doesn't go to the event because the manager isn't satisfied with the salary because his salary rate is low and such situations have happened. Thus, it will look like in the case of security and order services, such as the Police and the State Fire Department. Publicisation will be carried out by entrusting the implementation of medical rescue contracts only to medical entities which are independent public healthcare teams, budgetary units or capital companies with at least a majority share of the State Treasury or local government units or public medical institutions. Amendments were tabled during the committee's work. I will signal very briefly what these amendments would depend on. The first amendment concerned a rather important aspect, in my opinion, of the operation of medical rescue teams, especially as at the moment these teams are getting more and more without a doctor. Up to now, under the provisions of the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Advocate of the Rights of the Patient, healthcare providers are required to obtain the consent of the patient to provide such benefits. The exception is the provision of medical services by doctors where such consent is not required. At the moment when a paramedic or a system nurse arrives and there is no consent person We are talking about the case of minors. This aid cannot be granted without agreement. Therefore, this law introduces that a medical emergency worker or a system nurse will be able to provide such assistance. I would like to mention that the spokesperson of the patient's rights showed that there were more than 65 thousand accidents in Poland in the years 2015 and 2016, which concerned both educational institutions and educational institutions. This is one amendment accepted by the committee. Second amendment, clarifying paragraph. Article 1 24b, is related to the introduction of a definition of the State Medical Rescue Command Assistance System. This definition includes, in addition to receiving emergency calls from emergency call centres, the acceptance of emergency notifications. Currently, the provision only applies to emergency calls and it is therefore necessary to supplement the provisions on notification of events. The third amendment adopted by the committee extends the possibility until the end of the first quarter of 2019... as if it prolongs the publication of the State Medical Rescue in the pre-hospital stage, i.e. by the end of the first quarter of 2019 non-public companies which have so far operated in this system. 2 amendments were proposed by our legislator. These are purely editorial amendments. Mr Marshal, High Senate, in order not to speak during the discussion, I would like to make two more amendments to this bill. The first amendment concerns Article. Point 24 (3) is replaced by the following: Point 24 of Article 1 25b. Case C-343/03 P Commission v Commission [1996] ECR I-4303, paragraph 20. c, point 29, as regards Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 (1), point 37 within the scope of Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and point 42 (a) b and c, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2020, As a consequence, Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of 2. the following paragraph shall be added. 2a and 2b. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2a: Until 31 December 2019 the voivodship medical emergency coordinator shall cooperate with the medical dispatcher designated by the head of the medical entity employing the medical dispatcher. And lips. 2b: Until 31 December 2019, during medical emergency operations, the medical director shall remain in constant contact with the medical dispatcher designated by the head of the medical operator employing the medical dispatcher. This amendment is intended to... The point is that the medical dispatchers already existing in the medical emergency teams will be operational for less than 3 years, which is until 31 December 2020. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to generate additional costs for the providers of medical rescue teams with relatively small dispatchers. Sometimes there are dispatchers in which there are 2 or 3 positions for dispatchers, and this would generate by virtue of this law the employment of the chief medical dispatcher, the head of the medical dispatcher and their deputies. Therefore, the proposed date of 1 January 2020 is sufficient time either to adapt these dispatchers to the requirements of the Act, or to introduce new solutions in the region by concentrating dispatchers to one or two if we are talking about Mazowieckie and Silesian voivodships. The second amendment is quite extensive, but let me give you a closer look at it. The proposed law was to enter into force on 1 January 2018, unfortunately the legislative process has extended and therefore it is necessary to postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning the construction of the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue and to carry out tasks in preparing and conducting courses for medical dispatchers and regional medical rescue coordinators. This amendment extends the construction period of the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue in detail. Mr. Marshal, I am making these 2 amendments and I ask the High House to adopt a bill with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Florek asked you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator... I'll have a few questions, but the first question... Since I am not a member of the committee, I will therefore have a few questions, because the subject is very important, very important. This is safety, however it may be, the life and health of our inhabitants. The competitions commissioned by the voivodships to the National Health Fund must take place until 31 December 2018. This is the amendment that went through in the Seym. Previously, it was the date of June 30th this year. This was postponed until the end of December 2018. At the meeting of the Senate Health Committee, as you have just informed us, another amendment has been tabled, which will postpone this deadline until 30 March 2019. Question: How long will the competitions be held then? Will they be carried out in new operational areas according to the planned reduction of the number of dispatchers to 18, i.e., as you said, 1 dispatch office in the voivodship except these 2 exceptions I'll make an amendment here later. Or the current areas, or the 42 regions. Question: who tabled an amendment at the Health Committee meeting amending the date in Article. 20 of 31 December 2018 for 31 March 2019 and what was the reasons for the submission of this amendment by the person submitting it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u27	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Why don't I start with you, Mr. Senator, from the end, which is Amendment 3, which I'm responsible for here. I called it in. The reasons for the extension of that period until 31 March 2019 are such as to justify the extension of that period. I have already told you that this law should enter into force in the first quarter of 2018, but since it has been delayed, it is appropriate to postpone the validity of the contracts for the tasks of medical rescue teams until the end of the first quarter of 2019. This publication, which will take place, and these competitions will concern large operational areas. So the dispatch room is gonna be like... Its operational district will be the only operational area and a competition for healthcare providers will be organised for this operational area.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u29	That's it? Does the senator want to continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u30	Yes, I can continue. Just a little bit. Mr. Senator, you were talking about this delay. The law entered into the session of the Sejm in November or December, was passed in April, and it can be said that this delay is several months. This amendment was therefore tabled in the Sejm concerning the extension of the deadline from 30 June to 31 December, and this is the six-month period. But I asked for extra... [[Yeah, but before she went to the Senate... it unfortunately took a further delay on that bill.]] Now that I'm here, can I ask you a second question? Yes? [[There you go.]] Why will medical dispatchers be an organizational cell of the Voivodship office only on January 1, 2021? Why should they remain in the organizational structures of the medical rescue teams until 31 December 2020? The competitions are due to take place until December 31st. or until 31 March, if this amendment passes As a result of which emergency response teams may change, this may cause serious complications in the operation of the system. Well, we have to tell the difference that they're dispatchers, and there are ambulances, which is medical emergency teams. And if there's competitions and it turns out there's a change, we're gonna have another mess in the medical emergency system. So the question is why, so to speak, the state of the medical dispatches... we were all behind this, because it is important that the dispatchers perform a very responsible task, etc. They were organized in this way. Meanwhile, we have a dispatcher here, and we have emergency services, medical rescue teams. That, of course, will cause complications. And I don't think so either. You said it yourself, but I will ask the Minister of Health about the competitions: will these be competitions for these new operational areas or for the old operational areas? How's it look? I'm asking because there's definitely doubt here. The operating area is connected with the operation of the control room: as many as there are areas, as many is the control room. So here I wouldn't really agree with what you said, but I'll ask you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u31	Thank you, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the deadline is 2028. The idea is to have 1 dispatch office for the data of the voivodship or 2 dispatch offices in these 2 large voivodships, i.e. Silesian and Mazowieckie. During this time, there will definitely be competitions. They take place in the operational areas in which the data is provided by dispatchers, i.e. when these dispatchers are less, they will only cover those areas. Well, since there are 42 dispatchers at the moment, if the competitions were taking place right now, 42 competitions would be announced. The fact that in 2021 this will be taken over by the voivode is due to the fact that it will involve additional financing of the system. The staff who are currently employed by the directors of medical rescue teams in dispatch will become voivodeships' employees and will be transferred to the employment contract. This will apply from 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u33	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. This bill was loud in the media, it was a bit alarming. It was said that after the introduction of this law there would be problems because these non-public operators or I don't know how to describe those who provide services in this area... It has been said that there will be no possibility of implementing the whole range of actions that are needed. Therefore, my question is: is it possible to say that... Was there any, well, I do not want to use the word "lobing," but... Did any of the entities operating on the Polish market not have any interest in this law not coming into force in this form? Oh, that's how I'd put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you answered your own question. If a private entity is withdrawn from the market, he will not be satisfied with it. That's a small part, that's about 7-8%. This market, which includes medical rescue teams, so there is no danger that this gap will be... that this area that was operated by a private contractor will be without ambulances, because we know that it will be supplemented by the directors who are currently operating on the market, we have such declarations. And if this is not the case, this period may be extended, this private administrator will be able to continue to operate in this area. But I'm sure that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u37	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u38	Mr President, Mr Senator, rapporteur. During the committee's work, were you fully aware that, by nationalizing completely rescue, at the same time suppressing... [[What kind of question is that?]] ...are you putting an end to the great civic or social energy that is being mobilised to protect and save lives? An example of such great energy is fire rescue, which today... 800,000 rescuers in the field of fire cases guarantee the safety of almost all of Poland. There are many initiatives, among others. There are foundations that run... There may be Western, foreign foundations that invest in this for the needs of the heart. By nationalising, at the same time, you are eliminating the social energy that Poland needs so much. Was that consciousness?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u39	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're wrong because we're not nationalizing, which means we're not taking anything from anyone. This is the publication of the State Medical Rescue under the rules on which the Police or the State Fire Department operates. [[And what is a state...]] State... This is State Medical Rescue, that's what it's called. [[The question is, will the foundations be able to work, will there be opportunities for citizens to establish...]] But I don't really understand the question, Senator. What do citizens have to do with State Medical Rescue? The task of state rescue is to serve them. As a patient, you'll call the emergency phone and get help as soon as possible. And it's your job to secure this aid. [[And I want, Mr. Senator, to fund...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u41	Same question? [[Yeah, same question.]] Then please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u42	Will the public, including citizens, including people from abroad, be able to launch rescue on the basis of citizens' initiatives in health care? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u43	Mr. Senator, I repeat: there is no such thing as. Private police, right? There's no such thing. The State Fire Department is also state-owned. The same will be true of the National Medical Rescue. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u44	Question? Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u45	You don't understand the question, which is why I have to repeat it a third time. Well, you're wrong. There is a state fire and social rescue in the form of voluntary firefighters. You understand that analogy, don't you? So I'm asking you to answer the important question, which is, among other things. Saving health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u46	If the senator wants to make up for it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u47	Senator, there are social organisations involved in first aid training, and they will continue to work. But now we're talking about State Medical Rescue, that is, providing professional assistance, purely medical assistance by paramedics, system nurses or system doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u48	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will answer to Senator Rulewski: there will be no volunteer emergency service, though it might be. Yeah, well... And in relation to Senator Jackowski's speech, who so beautifully exposed, so to speak, the vicious intentions of a private ambulance and asked if they weren't surprised to fall out of the market, and therefore lobby, I will ask you the opposite, so positively: doesn't your chairman have the impression that the government is spinning a whip on his own skin? Was it said at the committee meeting that when rescuers monopolize this market, they would immediately come for the raises? Was this subject discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The subject of the rescue raises was not raised. I think this bill is a brave bill. Here you take full responsibility for the provision of medical services, for saving the lives and health of our citizens, without having to feed on private entities which, as I mentioned, can terminate the agreement at any time, and then the risks to the health and life of citizens can be much greater.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u52	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u53	I'm gonna do the same thing, but I'm gonna ask you a little different... It's about the medical dispatchers. Because of the state... no, I'm sorry, to make it public, that's what you called it. The question is why the Act eliminates non-public entities with medical rescue teams from the medical rescue system. You said it was 8%. That there's been more or less this participation so far. The senator just said it's about quality, competition, and so on that it won't be. And yet these are two different cases, the dispatch office is one thing, and rescue teams are another. Because it's an ambulance, it's equipment, it's a waiting spot in the right warehouse. Whether it's a S, whether it's a P, and it's a... She's supposed to wait. And there's nothing complicated about it. So the question is why do you eliminate non-public entities with medical rescue teams from the medical rescue system under this law. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u55	The question is... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The question is asked in a way... It's a big, big issue, but I think we're still talking about the same thing. Senator, once again, this law makes you fully responsible for providing assistance to victims of road accidents, accidents at work, traffic accidents, emergencies, etc. At the moment, State Medical Rescue, just like the State Fire Department, just like the police. It will provide services without the use of private operators. The fact that the dispatchers will not be with the provider, but with the voivodeship, is a prognosis of the Supreme Audit Chamber's control, which has shown that the influence on the dispatcher by the provider may be such that the departures of these teams may be limited in some way. From now on, it won't be, because there won't be, I'd say, a direct transfer of a staff member to a healthcare provider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u56	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm gonna change the order of my questions because there's a very interesting topic about this publicity. I take it that's the main thing. That's what the senator was talking about. The main thought was that medical rescue was to be state-run. Yes? Okay, I get it. Well, tell me... as I go through this line of thinking, there's something I'd like to ask you. You may deviate from the answer. We have a state health service, which means the state is responsible for health care. Yes? Following that line of thought that you confirmed, I'd like to ask you if it's to be expected. Maybe you have that information, maybe you're in favour of this solution. That's because we're talking about state health services and state responsibility for health services. Does this mean we're gonna go public with all the clinics, first contact doctors and specialists? Is it within this state health service that you would see, would this direction be good for you, and should we expect such a next move?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u58	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Well, I could say briefly: this was not the subject of the committee's discussion. But since the senator is a member of our committee, I'll answer you. You're mixing two different... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, apples and pears, because these are two different systems. I think that any citizen can choose a hospital, whether it's a private hospital or a state hospital, and a doctor he has confidence in, who he wants to treat. But if we're in an emergency, for example. We're gonna get trauma in a communication accident, and we're not gonna have that chance. Then the nearest medical emergency team will arrive. It must be a team that will arrive as soon as possible, the team as well equipped and with the best qualifications. This is what our government is doing and we want it to be done in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u60	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry to make a mess of you, but I'm asking a pretty simple question. Mr Senator, Mr President of the Commission, whether the responsibility of the State you are talking about and which I do not deny precludes, in your opinion, the possibility of using private rescue measures, e.g. Ambulance?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u62	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to dig into the question you asked the senator, but it's gonna be very difficult for me. I will once again say that at the moment State Medical Rescue will only provide services under public funds. Private sector... As regards inter-hospital transport or diagnostic transport, the private sector can continue to operate in this area. This bill doesn't regulate it at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u64	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u65	Mr. Senator, you were talking about traffic accidents and so on. For the person involved in the communication accident, it is important that the ambulance arrives at a certain time, properly equipped and with an appropriate warehouse. And whether it's gonna be, like it's been so far, an ambulance from some company, an ambulance from a local government or another, doesn't matter at all. We're just talking ambulances. I agree with this bill on the medical dispatch. Here we are convinced that this is the way it should be. [[Yes, sir.]] Senator, until 31 December 2027, medical dispatchers may operate in a number not greater than that specified in the Act. You can't increase their numbers, but 42 that are now, can function. Since 2021, dispatch offices will be as if in the voivodship offices and their area of activity will be covered with the area of operational areas for which competitions will be announced. And a question. Why? Why, until 31 December 2027, this is the case here. The dispatchers can function in as many as they have so far? After all, the reduction in dispatch was very rapid. I can give an example from my voivodship, where there were 31, and right now there are 5. Why should we wait until 2027, as if this date could not be changed and the deadline should be shortened to 31 December of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u66	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the answer is very prosaic. It seems like a pretty long time, but if we're going to focus the medical office, we need to give them the personnel. If 1 dispatcher is created e.g. in Warsaw, and other dispatchers are now located in Ostrołęka... The dispatcher who works in Ostrołęka will not come to work in Warsaw. It takes time for the voivode to get employees who are well prepared and who can provide work at a single office. This period is actually extended, but it is a bow towards the voivodships. The point is that they have time to get people who are going to work. It also involves logistics, because sometimes you have to prepare such a dispatcher. And just because she's under voivodeship doesn't mean she has to be in a voivodeship office building. Of course, that's not what we're talking about here. [[One more thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u69	The accompanying question. You may not answer because it's a bit of a specialist case. I ask that the question be sent to the Minister, if any. The rules on European funds, which are to be used by Poland until at least 2027, provide for the possibility to finance various citizens' initiatives, but exclude aid for public entities. And the question is: will the elimination of these citizens' initiatives make it impossible to apply to European funds because they will not exist and the state does not have the power to obtain aid?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u71	I think thank you, Mr. Marshal. You are wrong, Mr Senator, because at the moment the budgetary or non-public units of the SP of the ZOZ, or the local government units that will be able to carry out this activity, receive aid from European funds and will continue to benefit from it. [[I do now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u72	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm not going back to these pears and apples anymore, because I can see we don't understand each other. You know what I mean... [[I know that.]] I'm gonna ask you straight, but you're gonna answer me at break. Do you think that in Poland private practices in the implementation of public health services need to be eliminated... [[I don't think so.]] ...the paid... [[I don't think so.]] ...from the National Health Fund? [[But we're talking about something else, two completely different systems.]] Okay, but I also have a question about what you're saying. Mr. Senator, you said there were cases where there were no rescue teams in situations where there were no agreed rates. There were some financial problems there. Could you name a few, tell me how many cases there were, where they were? Where to find a report on such non-action in accordance with the principle of assistance by medical rescue units Okay, I get it. From private units?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think the Minister will answer that, because she cited this example. [[Oh, that's a question for the Minister, isn't it?]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u76	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u77	Senator, from the date of entry into force of the Act, medical dispatchers will be required to comply with the requirements of the organizational structure through the appointment of the head of the medical dispatcher and his deputy. The main medical dispatcher and his deputy, and by introducing the division of medical dispatchers into receiving emergency reports and having a medical emergency team at the scene. On the other hand, the amendment provides for the possibility of a medical dispatcher operating in the current quantity, as you said, until 31 December 2027. And I won't agree with what you said, because when it comes to the voivodeship, he's supposed to organize these dispatchers by 2021, so this term 2027, in my opinion, doesn't change anything here at all. So how do we meet these requirements in dispatch rooms, where, for example, two dispatching stations operate? Because we're talking here... the recipe says there's got to be one dispatcher in a smaller area, up to 400,000 people. Is this order right here then? And was that amendment you read and reported? 'Cause I hear you're making an amendment in this respect. Is that what I'm saying right now? Mostly I'm talking about this division, because I didn't hear you divide it into dispatchers who accept and have... Because it's hard to imagine a two-station dispatcher to have those steering wheels there, etc., and so on and so forth, and to have this division. That is why I keep saying that these changes should enter into force on 31 December this year and should not wait until 2021, because it is about the safety of the inhabitants. This reform was moving fast and in the right direction, and now we see that we have some slowing down, quite unnecessary. The question is therefore: is this amendment of yours consuming, or is it necessary to make an amendment in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u78	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, that's right, she's consuming what the senator said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u80	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u81	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I am returning to the paragraph on the fact that capital companies in which at least 51% shares, shares belong to the Treasury or the local government unit... Let's assume that there's a capital company, and I'm talking about a hospital. In which 51% has a private entity and one of the elements is a rescue unit, but also one of the elements is rescue teams. It's just that this hospital, this private equity unit with more than 50% private capital, handles the area. So I understand, Mr. Senator, that now it's going to be like this, that the voivode is going to create a separate medical rescue unit that handles this area, because this hospital, in which 51% either the Treasury or the local government will not be able to take part in the competition. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator, he will not be able to take off because he has no majority capital, which is the share of the Treasury. Thus, the voivode will be obliged to provide benefits provided by that entity in place of benefits provided by another entity that holds the majority capital. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u84	Thank you. No more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.)]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to stress that the responsibility for the safety of residents, especially in life-threatening situations, is borne by the state. And the state is building a system to ensure the quality and speed of the provision of benefits, especially in these difficult circumstances. With regard to the medical emergency systems that exist in the European Union or in other countries, they are various, as you have said here. Some countries of the European Union secure medical rescue through social organisations, foundations, various kinds of associations. But there is also a part of the countries of the European Union in which this medical rescue is entrusted only to state services. This is the case, for example, in the Scandinavian countries. In Poland, on the basis of our previous experience, we decided that, however, the state by name... The Act, which entered into force in 2007, refers to the State Medical Rescue, which has been implemented by private services so far. We have decided that the State Medical Rescue will be implemented by state directors, i.e. those who carry out the services in the form of a public health institution or companies with a majority public participation. We also have evidence... The senators asked what it was like for commercial operators to implement these benefits. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is an example from Rawa Mazowiecka, where suddenly from hour to hour a private operator resigned from the provision of health services. And it's the public service, the voivode... Thanks to the efficiency of the voivodeship and public entity, it was possible to organize a replacement within literally a few hours and set up medical rescue teams that ensured the safety of inhabitants of such a large area. Last-minute example: in the Lublin Voivodeship is a private entity, holding a contract for the provision of medical rescue services, which is in liquidation. And there's a danger that anytime 'Cause it's a private company 'cause it can stop doing business. The problem will be passed on to voivodeships or public services. These experiences entitle us, they give us legitimacy to make a decision on the state emergency services. Of course, a commercial shareholder may participate in the provision of benefits, provided that the shares in the company do not represent more than 49%. Because there must be an advantage to public capital here. This was the decision of the Government of Law and Justice, and so is the law. I would like to stress with full determination that no one is taking anybody's contracts now. Until now, contracts have been signed with suppliers for a specified period of time in the contract. Those contracts just expire. And no counterparty has a legal basis to claim for the change that we want to make in this law. In 2011, when such a contract was common, private entities suddenly entered the system, which eliminated dozens of public entities. From day to day public entities with potential in the form of purchased ambulances Even with EU funds, they have been deprived of contracts. And this model, which we want to introduce, is designed to prevent such situations, the waste of public funds, which have been redirected to the medical rescue system for investment. Because big investments have been made in purchasing equipment or investing dispatchers. You call this change nationalization. The Act in no way deprives existing private entities of their assets. It is clear and therefore it is not possible to talk about nationalisation here. As regards the issue of the medical dispatcher, the process of concentration of the medical dispatcher has already been started actually since 2011, 2012 and it is progressing quite smoothly. There's evidence that concentrated dispatchers work much more efficiently. The time to take a job has been reduced, the time to have a team has been reduced, which is de facto for the patient this is a very good change, because it makes the speed of reaching the rescue team better than in the previous system. This is a better use of forces and resources, concentration in one place of high-special equipment, which allows us to locate the location of the call very precisely, makes effective use of the system. Such actions, as I said, have been taking place for some time and they are effective, they are reliable. This concentration process we want to continue. Why by 2028? This is the result of a compromise with local authorities. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this bill for a long time. on the social side and at the request of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government, i.e. the local government, this final date was agreed at the agreed conferences. We took into account the will of local governments, because they expected a longer time to make these changes, which from the point of view of local authorities can be important, because really moving dispatchers from one city to another involves certain perturbations or different social perceptions, because it can be associated with the liquidation of jobs. However, in general, all workers who are employed will have the opportunity to work in these concentrated medical offices. As far as the organisational structure of the dispatcher is concerned, we are planning changes regarding the creation of the head office of the dispatcher, the manager and optionally the deputies. This is very important because, for example, such mass events as recently occurred on the S8 show that uniform standards of conduct are required. If we do not have such uniform standards, it will be really difficult to manage mass events. And among others. The harmonisation of the organisational structure will allow for the development of this standard, these procedures, the imposition of appropriate obligations on the dispatcher's manager, the chief dispatcher who will have specific tasks assigned, especially in the case of mass events. But given the fact that the bill enters into force 14 days after the President's signature, among other things. An amendment was tabled at the Health Commission meeting to allow the time for the introduction of this new structure to be extended by 2020 in order to ensure that those dispatchers that exist at the moment can either make this change or continue the restructuring process, i.e. continue to focus. So that's the purpose of this bill. Of course, it was based on previous experiences, examples of various events that took place in Poland. It is even the result of the lessons that have been learned from the way World Youth Days were organised recently when we saw the lack of central management of medical rescue teams. We believe in this, and all analyses suggest that this law will improve rescue services, better use of potential, and thus provide greater security for the inhabitants of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u86	At present, senators may submit questions to a representative of the government on the agenda from a place of no more than one minute. Senator Florek signed up for the question first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we have this state-of-the-art medical dispatcher, there are medical rescue teams, and now there will be no connection. I mean, there's going to be separation, because it's in the voivodeship. Medical rescue teams. So I have a question. 'Cause you were talking about how it is in Europe that there are different solutions "Whether or not this is in accordance with Union law, in that case. So far, private entities that have witnessed this... And you said that so far the private ones that served were only 8%. The others were of course different, self-government and others, which provided these services. You praised me, you said that... you gave the example of Rawa Mazowiecka. I can only say that I could give many other examples of what it looked like so far. I can give you examples from Wielkopolska, for example. I'm glad you approve of these changes, this direction, because I'm going to say that I co-author this system, except for number 112, when I was a voivode and It's an example I've been cutting down on these medical dispatchers... This was met with great outrage of medical rescuers, protests were in voivodships, etc., when I reduced to 5... Only in Wielkopolska I reduced from 31 to 5. I can give examples that are not true what you say, that only in Rawa Mazowiecka... I could give examples from the Wielkopolska voivodship, where there were problems with other self-government units, etc., and it was not with private ones. The lady gives examples of one and two. This is the whole court campaign... [[Mr. Senator, this is a topic for discussion. Please...]] Okay, I'm almost done. ...tied up, etc. These are individual, selective examples you're giving. But the question is: Well, you're not talking about it, which is why I'm repeating this question again. Why, if it is only 8%, it only applies to ambulances that are somewhere in a specific waiting place, properly equipped, in a suitable warehouse and heading to the scene, drive to the S.R., or return to another hospital and end. I don't understand why you're trying to eliminate this after you split up the medical office. You could've left that behind. You said the locals wanted to... I don't know, I think there's a trade union pressure, I suspect, in this direction, to do it. I don't understand at all. Please explain to me again why you want these 8% eliminate. Is that in line with EU law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u88	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u89	As I said at the outset, the European Union does not regulate the way in which it is organised. Each country of the European Union adopts its own way of organisation resulting from past experience, history, cooperation with non-governmental organisations. So that there are no international regulations in this area. I also said there were different systems. There are systems based on social organisations, there are mixed systems and there are state systems. After examining this situation, the Polish government decided that medical rescue in Poland should be based Just like the other emergency services, like the State Fire Department, like the police. In public service. At the same time we allow private capital of up to 49% shares in companies governed by commercial law. I would also like to stress that the law on which we are proceeding provides for the possibility of cooperation with organisations of this type as co-operating bodies, inter alia. TOPR, WOPR, GOPR or other organisations. There is also a specific provision in the law that regulates the way this cooperation is done. So that we do not eliminate absolutely such controllers, but the very system of State Medical Rescue is based on state services. The area remains to be developed, as Mr President said earlier. Training, first aid training, sanitary transport or mass events that require medical rescue teams. It is a large market in which these non-public entities can very much take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u90	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would. Perhaps it was my ignorance that wanted to ask about which country of the European Union is a completely state-owned medical rescue. 'Cause maybe I missed it. And the second question... Well, 135 ambulances, teams will disappear from the market, because, I understand, the company's free of charge. He won't give up the state rescue. Is the Ministry, or does the government have a budget to fill this gap?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u93	In Sweden, Senator, there is a completely public system, of course working with other services, but in general the state system is based on state services. When it comes to complementing this system, ladies and gentlemen, we have been doing detailed analyses, meeting with public administrators. There is an association of directors in Poland, medicinal entities that carry out medical rescue services, and we have received a written declaration that they have the right potential to meet such needs. Once again, I would like to stress that the law provides for such an eventuality, such an opportunity. If there was no public authority in the operational area, a contract could be signed, via the NFZ, with a private administrator, but for a period of not more than 2 years. So that in this respect we should not have problems securing this. Besides, we're already meeting with the voivods, with public directors. Such meetings took place and after examining the case, we received a declaration that public dispatchers have the strength and means to secure those operational areas which have been secured by a private counterparty so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u94	Now you're asking Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Your statement on the examples shows that checking this in the laundry... Well, one exception makes the rule. You found one exception. In the form of Rawa Mazowiecka, I understand. And you say it's a bad thing. The second example concerns the country, Sweden, as I understand it. Well, there are countries, and that also served as an example. But I have a question... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Hungary.]] Oh, that's what I've been waiting for. I was just going to ask at the end if our friendly country, Hungary, has a similar system. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: This is a country from the European Union.]] Minister, I'd like to ask you about another situation. Would you mind telling me what it's gonna look like in the laundry? Because what's important is how it's gonna look in life. We're dealing with a situation that after... Well, not after nationalization, but after publicity. Let's say we have a medical emergency unit. The workers are dissatisfied, and they have taken an active action of not fulfilling the task, which, of course, they have the right to if they are dissatisfied with the salary. And they don't provide that service. Will you change the system again? What's it gonna look like? Because if based on the fact that what was done in Rawa Mazowiecka was done... It probably didn't go well, but it's an important argument for you to make medical rescue public. If a publicized medical rescue goes on all kinds of protests, announces a strike, etc., will you go back to what was, or do you have a third option? How will this be implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u96	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u97	Maybe I'll answer a little perversely. Ladies and gentlemen, the private sector does not protect us from this type of action. The Green Góra Agreement is proof of this. POZ is in private hands and we're having problems with these contractors too. So I don't think it's important to assess the safety of the system from this point of view, because such situations can also happen on the other side. Medical rescue is a very sensitive area, and the state is responsible for the safety of citizens and, therefore, in order to reduce this risk, it was decided by the Polish Government that these benefits should be carried out by public administrators, on which the state, or actually the voivode directly responsible for the system, has some influence. A private counterparty, due to economic ineffectiveness or for any other reason, may at any time terminate its activities under the Commercial Code and leave the problem to the local government. The local government, which is responsible for the safety of residents by law, has no influence on the entity that carries out these benefits. As you know, most medical benefits, such as hospital benefits, are secured by entities whose body is the local government. As I said, due to the specificity and sensitivity of this area, the Polish government decided that this would be a task carried out by public services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u98	Complement, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u99	Minister, thank you very much. We may be beautifully different here, I accept the Minister's argument, but that's not what I asked. I'm gonna ask you again. Tell me what the situation will be after the rescue is made public. Let's say that we have public medical rescue units alone, and the employees of one unit, e.g. In Rawa Mazowiecka, so that we no longer look for other cities, they are dissatisfied with the pay system and undertake protest actions. Well, they're not leaving for events like they're supposed to, and there are problems. What will be the option then? You have e.g. Are we going to be looking again for another solution when it comes to the issue of legislation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u100	Mr. Senator, this situation, as I repeat, can occur in any area of the economy. Here, in the medical rescue area we now have a greater impact on the whole system and we can have teams that are available at a given voivode or in a given area, in a given operational area. Predicting a situation like this or not, it's just a fuss reading, 'cause it's just as well... Every day we meet with different situations and negotiate, we talk, while in general state medical rescue, as you can see, there is no reason to suspend business. It can protest, but it is not possible to strike in an active form, or suspension of departures. And the influence of state authorities, voivodships on public services is certainly greater than in the case of a private operator, which, de facto, the voivode cannot order anything. [[Mr. Marshal, one last question, if you don't mind...]] Last one? Please, because then there's two people in line...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u101	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, because... Minister, I've drawn a conclusion from your statement... That is the last question in this regard. I understand that if there's an emergency situation in a nationalized unit, the voivode and the locals are unhappy, then we're starting. 'Cause we have the right potential. Other units to improve the situation. That's what I understand, and that's right. Now tell me about this situation. Those private individuals, disliked by the current government, are 8%. If within these 8% One unit does not act in a good way, wants to get off the market, what is the obstacle here to starting a state unit in this place under the responsibility of the state?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u102	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u103	Mr. Senator, as far as the public body is concerned, it has its own creation body, which is also responsible for the activities of this medicinal product. It is usually a district government or a local authority and it is responsible, under the law it is responsible for securing such benefits in its territory and is responsible for the functioning of this medicinal entity. So the task is entrusted to the local government, and he also has the tool by which he can carry out this task. In the case of a private entity, the self-government has no influence on the operator if it remains suddenly, from hour to hour, deprived of such benefits. If there is such a situation in a public entity that there will be claims, etc., then the local government, the governor, the marshal has mechanisms that he can help this establishment in such a way as not to generate a break in the provision of benefits. This is the public responsibility for the activities of the medicinal product. Once again, medical rescue is an extremely sensitive area of social life, which we cannot privatize, subject only to market play. Here are more important goals to achieve and more important responsibility. Therefore, money, the financial result cannot decide whether we are going to provide health benefits or not, whether we are going to an accident or not. [[Mr. Marshal, I just want to say thank you very much. That's not what I asked, but thank you for the lecture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u104	Thank you. The question is Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions, but first I would like to thank you for preparing this bill. She was needed because reality is changing, and the requirements regarding our situation and health safety are also changing. This law also responds very strongly to the situation of medical rescuers, whose environment is growing and plays an increasingly important role in the security system of residents. My questions concern two specific articles. One is an art. 25a.25c. It says that the voivodship creates and operates one medical office in the voivodship, except... I'd like to ask the Minister about this exception. It is said that in the Silesian Voivodeship two such dispatchers can lead. I would like to ask if there were diwags and discussions about where the other dispatcher might be. I ask this because in Częstochowa a second trauma center is being established in the voivodship at the moment. In this connection, can we hope that in correlation with this trauma centre a possible second dispatch office in the Silesian Voivodeship could be located in the city of Częstochowa, the second after Katowice an important urban centre in the area of the Silesian Voivodeship? In my second question, I would like to address the issue of the regional medical emergency coordinator. Under this amendment, the voivodship coordinator has many different tasks assigned and I would like to ask if his tasks are in any way correlated It may have been raised at the Health Committee meeting, but I am not a member of the Health Committee, so I would like to ask the Minister about the tasks of a regional medical emergency consultant. Because from the time I worked in the voivodship administration and worked with voivodship consultants, I remember that we have a voivodship medical emergency consultant. Is he, like, taking over this consultant's area of activity, or is he supplementing it, or is there a relationship between the two at the level of the voivodeship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u106	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u107	Thank you. Dear Senator, currently there are 5 dispatchers in the Silesian Voivodeship. For the plans... the provincial plans will indicate clearly how many dispatchers will ultimately be created and where they will be created. The voivodship is responsible for the plan, this is the job of the voivodship, therefore the specific location of the voivodship will be decided by the voivodship. The voivode then sends these plans to the Minister and if the Minister, after examination, does not see any substantive objections, accepts these plans. Now I'm going to the second question. These are completely different tasks, because the voivodship coordinator acts ad hoc, supports dispatchers, supports information, substantive experience. This role is particularly important in the case of mass events, i.e. such online action, action at a time when events that cannot be resolved at the level of a particular dispatcher occur, at this moment the voivodship coordinator takes over the tasks. The role of the voivodship consultant is slightly different, but of course we always consult and take into account any recommendations of the consultants both national and voivodship. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u108	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. Why is the creation of a separate training centre for medical rescue workers, a state system, located just in front of the medical rescue system, envisaged in the situation where there is a national postgraduate training centre in Warsaw? My second question: why should the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue be located in a unit that is only part of this whole system, i.e. in air rescue? According to the paramedics I spoke to, there is no justification for this because the scope of the responsibilities that this national centre will have is so wide that it cannot be an entity that will be located with one of the elements of this system. And my third question. This project deprives medical universities of the possibility of training in the field of medical rescue, because as a result of the changes, universities will not be able to conclude a contract for the performance of tasks with the medical rescue team within the framework of the State Medical Rescue System. Aren't you worried that these regulations will make you run out of qualified paramedics in a few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u110	Thank you. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll start with the third question, because it's basically not true. Medical schools have been trained for many, many years, and this law does not apply to the training system of medical rescuers in any way. [[Voice from the room: You don't see it.]] Of course I can't see. No university in the country so far I repeat: no university in the country It did not have medical rescue teams that would be contracted by the NFZ and function in the system, and this did not interfere with education. These are two completely different things. And the question of the creation by medical universities of an entity that could possibly provide benefits was taken in the course of the discussion, of the procedure of this law, but we thought it would be a rather curiosity solution. Because since no medical university has had active rescue teams operating in the system so far, why would this law be selective in providing such opportunities? We felt that since medical schools have not had such experience so far, because they have never carried out such tasks, we would not impose this obligation on them, because it would cause their natural opposition. So that was the only motivation for this action. [[Sure.]] However, I repeat this with full responsibility, the law does not in any way apply to the training system of medical rescuers. They will still be educated as they have been trained so far, it has nothing to do with this bill. As regards the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue and the question of why it is not at the centre of post-graduate education, I will say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the national post-graduate training centre is currently using all the forces and means to implement post-graduate education. On the one hand, there is virtually no physical possibility of placing a monitoring centre in this institution, on the other hand, those who would participate in teaching processes would have to be outsiders. As a result, we have considered various possibilities of placing a national monitoring centre, in different institutions or building it in different places, and after carrying out analyses, we have decided that the most efficient location of this centre will be in the Air Emergency Service. For example, due to the fact that there is already a system of training of medical rescuers, pilots, doctors, and they educate at a very high level, they are also equipped with equipment. So that on the basis of this base... We could at least partially use this base to carry out these tasks. As I said, the effectiveness analyses of these projects have shown, however, that this will be most appropriate in the Air Emergency Service. Why this dispatcher, not the other one? Well, we have one in Poland. And if we were to trust it, for example. Warsaw emergency room, there would be discussions about why we have chosen Warsaw emergency services rather than others. We also believe that, due to its specific nature, it should be attached to a specific availability, which has a practice which has the possibility of theoretical and practical training. Hence the decision to place this center in the LPR. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u111	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am not questioning the general meaning of this law, namely the state's taking back responsibility for these key areas for which the State should be responsible, inter alia. Medical rescue in its entirety. However, I have some concerns, and perhaps not even concerns, but a lack of satisfaction with the transitional provisions. Well, it can't be like it's gonna be, so I'd put it that way, makeshift. Added article. 25a states that the voivodeship creates and runs one medical office in the voivodship, but it does not say that it takes over. So by the end of 2020 we have this situation: the current dispatchers operate, the voivode does not take over them, but can create and lead new ones. Then we have a transition period, from 1 January 2021 to the end of 2027, in which these dispatchers can be even as much as they are now, which is 42 as you confirmed. So the question is what it's like, because these are two different processes. One process is the issue of physical creation of dispatchers, location of them, equipment, etc., and the other process is the matter of taking over supervision or legal authority over this dispatcher. Tell me, what about those dispatchers that are in and out right now? Of course, I'm talking about those who aren't under voivodeship, they're private entities. What will happen to them on property and physical matters? It's about possible acquisition of their equipment and assets. I'm asking because, as I say, it's an art. 25a can't take over the dispatcher.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u114	The senator asked what would happen to the private dispatchers. No private operator has its own dispatcher, so there is no relationship here. The Act speaks of creating, of course, by the voivode, new dispatchers on the basis of existing dispatchers. We're talking about the whole consolidation process, the dispatcher's concentration. In 2021, the voivode will be obliged to take over all employees who are employed in one... In the country there are 5 voivodships in which there is only 1 dispatch office, so it will be such a vending machine These workers will become workers of the voivodship by law and will carry out their tasks. If there are several dispatchers somewhere, then of course the decision will belong to the voivodeship. It is the voivode who will decide whether to create 1 point and to create dispatch posts on its own or to use the existing base. We know that in some voivodships there are very well equipped single dispatchers or 2 dispatchers. In many voivodships, the voivodships will certainly not decide to build, create, equip new dispatchers, but they will create dispatchers on the basis of existing points. The issue of creation is understood to mean that if there is not a suitable room, a suitable dispatcher, which would give the possibility to concentrate in one place all dispatchers operating so far, then physically it will form a new one. But if you can base the work of the unit taken over by the voivodship on the resources of former dispatchers operating in the voivodship, there will be no obstacles here. That's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u115	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u116	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm gonna get back to these dispatchers. What were you going to do, deciding that in the Mazowieckie and Silesian voivodship there could be 2 medical offices, and not in other voivodships? This case is simple to me. First of all, the number of inhabitants We need to remind you that the bill says one dispatch worker per 200 thousand inhabitants And secondly, about the area of the voivodship. I happen to be from the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. We've prepared ourselves. In CPR there is a suitable room for dispatch and everything is ready. At the moment, there's a voivodship emergency station. Everything's ready. But the problem is that if a voivodship, which is third in terms of population and second in terms of area... If we divide by 2 the number of over 3 million 400 thousand inhabitants... That's 17 plus 1, which is 18. There's got to be 18 people on one shift in this office. And that's a problem, because it's a lot of people. You were still talking about that manager, and so on. Therefore, everything in large voivodships will be a problem. That's right on the border. I am about to make an amendment in this respect, in order to include the Wielkopolska Voivodeship here as well. Other voivodships... I'll just mention that. Lubelskie, Świętokrzyskie and Opolskie voivodship have less than 3 million hybrids together, and the Wielkopolskie voivodship has 3 million 400 thousand. And in every voivodship, it's different. What were you driving, deciding that only in 2 voivodships, Mazowieckie and Silesian... I would recommend that the Wielkopolska Voivodeship be included here. The remaining voivodships are smaller, which means there will be fewer dispatchers on duty. And there it will be organized somehow. And with a large number, it's gonna be very difficult. I know what preparations look like in Wielkopolska, and I'm gonna make an amendment. What were you following? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u118	Dear Senator, In general, in the size of voivodships there will be 1 dispatch office. Experience so far shows that this is enough. The system is so built, it's very little emergency. We have little intervention in this area. And even if the malfunctions happen, then the transmission, redirecting everything to a specific dispatcher is immediate, online. There's no problem here. In general, it would be enough for 1 dispatch office in individual voivodships. In the case of the Mazowieckie voivodship and the Silesian voivodship, as you yourself said, it is the number of inhabitants. This is an important argument that has been taken into account in the decision-making of 2 dispatchers. But infrastructure conditions are also important, which cause mass events to occur proportionally more frequently and may be more than in other regions of our country. Analyses, statistics clearly indicate that such events most often occur in these two voivodships. And that's why for security reasons the law provides in these 2 voivodships for 2 dispatchers. But I repeat that the SWD system is so built that it should not matter where the event is accepted in the country. At the moment, not even everyone... Well, the residents don't realize that calls are made to a particular dispatcher, very often... i.e. not very often, but it happens that they are received by the dispatcher in a completely different voivodship, because that's how the system works. If the dispatcher does not receive within 30 seconds, it is immediately redirected to the first free dispatcher. It could be from Przemyśl to Szczecin. And that's what happens. Thus, after taking into account these demographic and infrastructure conditions, this decision was taken in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u119	You're asking Senator Wojtyla a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have no objection to the very idea of medical rescue. I would like to say that Professor Religion was behind this concept, which unfortunately was not continued. And right now, what you were talking about. I know because I'm an active doctor. In fact, it does not work well. I have a question about the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue. I would like to ask what legal status this national centre will have. If it was a CMKP, it's a science institute that's entitled to educate... Because it's a post-graduate medical rescue training. They're now educated at the bachelor's level. Something would have to be done so that they could continue at the master's level. At the moment, they must continue this education in public health or in some other way. But I'd like to know the status of the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue. Is it going to be an institute? And now the exam... Well, so far, all medical exams are done by the Center for Medical Exams, and here this will be done by a completely different unit, which has no experience. The Center for Medical Examinations can test, can determine the standards of these exams, and here we do it at the Air Emergency Service. It's against logic. Why isn't it in one place, just like all the entrance and specialization exams, which is the Center for Medical Examinations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u122	The National Monitoring Centre on Medical Rescue will be responsible for post-graduate education. It's not pre-diploma, it's post-graduate. Therefore, the system of training of medical rescuers, dispatchers at pre-diploma level remains at universities and state higher vocational schools. That's where it's gonna be done. And in general at the moment, post-graduate training of medical rescuers, dispatchers is carried out by various types of entities, of different status, not necessarily even those which carry out their activities in the field of medical education. There are entities that deal with a completely different area, e.g. They train assemblers, and, by the way, they do courses for paramedics. So we want to regulate post-graduate education. That's what I'm talking about. implementing acts will be developed on the basis of this law, through which we will prepare standards for post-graduate training for dispatchers, coordinators and medical rescuers. This will be regulated by law, and it is precisely this national medical emergency centre that will be able to carry out this training according to the standard and issue a recognised certificate. Because right now, like I said, we have all kinds of institutions that do this. Well, as for quality, there's a lot of doubt. In order to regulate this, we are introducing that this will be carried out by the post-graduate training centre. Using e.g. The base and experience of the trainers who have been involved so far are functioning in the system. Air Emergency Service, as you know, trains staff not only for itself but also for other entities. He does it in a professional way, based on global standards. And that is why we want to entrust this unit with this education.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u123	Senator, one more question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u124	I'd like to ask you a question, Minister. Because when it comes to training, there's no doubt about it. There can also be universities, and also this center that is set up. But in 1993 the Center for Medical Examinations was established. It is an institution that functions well, carries out pre-diploma examinations and also specialized examinations in various fields. He has experience in the methodology of conducting these examinations. I know you're gonna follow the rules, the regulations. But I would appeal to you: why establish a new institution for conducting exams, since it has been in operation since 1993, an institution which is a professional institution carries out all medical examinations? I would suggest that these post-graduate examinations should also be carried out by this institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u125	That's a question, so please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u126	As far as the post-graduate education center is concerned, I already told you at the beginning... [[Medical Examination Centre in Łódź.]] Medical exam center, yeah. Adding an obligation to provide training... Because that's what we're talking about. Well, because the education center and... [[Exams.]] Good. But the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue will conduct the educational process. Someone's got to run this trial so we can test it later. So it will be the training entity according to the specific systems. And now if... And that, like I said, is dedicated to a group of emergency workers. And the center you're talking about is mostly about doctors, this environment... [[All specialties.]] Yeah, except if we add a powerful group of paramedics, co-ordinators, dispatchers, it's going to become inefficient, too. And the expenditures that we will have to bear in order for it to work smoothly will be comparable to those that we will bear in relation to the national centre. [[Again...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u127	One last question, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u128	Once again, I am defending this Center for Medical Examinations, that it is the only centre that prepares exams, has such experience. And I think it would be pointless to appoint another institution to conduct post-graduate exams just for medical rescuers. Because it's not just about costs, it's also about professionalism in preparing exams. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: I think I've already answered.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u129	Thank you. The list of people asking questions has been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland for several years there has been a European 112 number, operated by 112 operators in emergency notification centers created by voivodships in individual voivodships. And the emergency numbers of the individual services are functioning. That's where the dispatchers of the relevant services are receiving reports. In the case of a medical emergency, we're talking 999. We must bear in mind that we should only call there in case of emergencies of life and health, that these numbers should not be abused. Medical rescue is, in simplification, 2 cases: medical dispatchers and medical rescue teams. They are divided into basic and specialized. They are located in a given operational area according to the plan that forms the voivode. And that's pretty much everything about medical rescue teams. It creates them according to the plan, in a specific place, as well equipped. And that comes from the competitions. The story looked different when it came to medical rescue, because shortly after we started work on 112, work on reducing dispatchers began. Well, imagine that it was so recently that the dispatcher was practically in every district, there was one dispatcher, and when he left, for example. The toilet, it couldn't be reached, and it had one, two, three ambulances, depending on the O.R. Sometimes it was difficult to call there, and it was a big problem to have ambulances in mass emergencies. And these mass threats started coming in, so you had to think about how to do that, that if you call somewhere... I myself had an incident that I called 999 in one place, and it was reported in another county, and it was only then that they began to agree which ambulance would arrive at the scene. So you had to think about concentration and better management, concentration, especially mass events. And we're talking about the fact that for technical reasons too, it was increasingly possible, because already in 2012 and 2013, when we started this concentration of dispatchers, we could identify the caller, i.e. Find out where he's calling from, like in the case of landlines, which, of course, gives us a guarantee that the dispatcher won't be mistaken when he doesn't know any street name... Because you've probably heard on TV about cases like this, they happen a lot. But with technology, you could change all that. And of 338 dispatchers in Poland there are 42 which are now. We have such smaller dispatchers, e.g. Two-pointed. And here's the problem, because it really needs to be changed. It was a good direction of change, in order to be, as the minister said, one office in the voivodship, to be located in the voivodship. Of course, with exceptions about which... I'll make an amendment on this later. Also in 2014, following a check carried out in Małopolska voivodship, NIK recommended that measures be taken to ensure that medical dispatchers are in the voivodship. Because it's about training, it's about responsibility, etc. etc. So, of course, that was the right direction. And I have to say that the first medical office was made by Jerzy Miller, who was present at the time, in the Małopolskie Voivodeship. It was quite risky at that time to go to a solution with one dispatcher in the voivodship, but, as it turned out, it was right to make such a decision. I was more careful at this stage, because the Wielkopolskie voivodship is 5 former voivodships, in each former voivodship a medical office was established, and so it still functions today. But, of course, this concentration should be carried out at a later stage as much as possible. Emergency notification centres are located in the voivodeship, i.e. they cooperate with individual dispatchers, fire department and medical rescue. There's still an SWD system that I don't want to talk about here, which is a system for co-operation with the police, with the State Fire Department... But these are systems that are also integrated with the emergency call center, and that's what's important. To sum up, the work on concentrating the medical dispatchers and their location in the voivodeship has been well advanced already in the previous government. And unfortunately, I have to say that these last two and a half years have been a little wasted because nothing's done in this respect. The time limits for competition procedures commissioned by the voivodships in respect of individual branches of the National Health Fund have been postponed several times. Now, as you have heard, instead of 30 June 2018, it will be 31 December 2018 and maybe 31 March 2019. Medical dispatchers were not excluded from the competition procedure. And here's the problem, in my opinion, because the voivodships are only supposed to take over on January 1, 2020, with this target number, etc. So it's a date... And here's the thing: if this isn't off, it's not yet separated, then if another provider wins, it can be, say, a problem. And it seems to me that this is a deliberate game to move these dates after the local elections, because these competitions always meet with protest, and it's quite a big and loud protest, if you remember how the previous competitions took place. There are many important changes in the bill, among others. are those concerning the pursuit of the profession of paramedic, system doctor, SWD system PRM... The controversy, of course, is what you discussed, which is the location of the monitoring centre in the structures of the air rescue team's commander, but I won't be the subject. He talked more about it. In my opinion, it is unacceptable to eliminate by this law non-public entities with medical rescue teams from the State Medical Rescue System. According to the Act adopted by the Sejm, only medical rescue teams, including Air Rescue Service, which are part of a medicinal entity which is a separate public health care facility or a budgetary unit, or a capital company, will be units of the State Medical Rescue System. shares or shares belong to the State Treasury or local government unit. There was a discussion here about basic health care, etc. And this topic isn't so much connected to it, because it's just a medical emergency team, a properly equipped ambulance, the right people. The team of.P. or S...the doctor or paramedic and nurse who are in primary ambulances... Therefore, the elimination of these 8% entities... I don't know why discussing this at all, since it doesn't change anything, it doesn't change anything in the system, it doesn't change anything at all. It doesn't matter, and we exaggerate the subject. Of course, this equipment is important. Control of the proper functioning of medical rescue teams, including control of travel times, etc. It's all done by the voivode, he's got some control here. Medical emergency team after arriving at the scene provides assistance, transports the patient to the S.R., possibly to the designated hospital And returns to the waiting spot. And that's his whole job. So I don't know why this discussion is going on here. I think there's a concern about quickly reforming this, because medical dispatchers can be taken over right away. They're gonna be based on people who work there right now anyway. But they can either take the job or not, so you don't know how it's gonna end. There will certainly be a discussion on the financial conditions of these entities, whether these conditions will be better than they have been so far, etc. So that we can deal with the fact that the discussion on this subject will be. In my opinion, this extension is a completely unnecessary act, and this date 2027 is already some kind of puriazum. I don't know what it's for or what it's for. Eliminating these 8% entities, these non-public establishments, from the competitions will certainly not affect the quality of the benefits, because, as we are dealing with competition, the quality increases, and as this has no impact on the functioning of the system... The system will, as you say, be a state, because this is about State Medical Rescue. We agree it's the same with the police, with the guards. But just because the state, in the case of health care, does not mean that there can be no competition on the market here, that they cannot be provided by different operators. As for the dispatcher, this plan is what was previously adopted, and this is the right direction, etc. Accepting an application and disposal, sending an ambulance is a decision and there must be people prepared. And it's right that this psychologist's help is meant to be. That's what we did for the 112 emergency number. There's that kind of help. It's all necessary. So the direction, as far as dispatchers are concerned, is good, but when it comes to making ambulances public, I don't think so. And deadlines, of course, too far away. This is a completely unnecessary inhibition of action. Why do you want to do the competitions so the dispatchers and ambulances are still together when you can split it up now? Why do it so that it's together? To get in trouble after that? We don't know for how long, for what period. Therefore, we will probably not be able to support this law. I still want to make an amendment, but it's gonna take a while... I'll sign up for my second appearance then. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, it's a word about Sweden. The Minister is right, of course, that the governing organisation is a state organisation, but on its website it is clearly stated that it uses private ambulances, and to a large extent. But I'm going to start with a password that might seem to be spelled out, but for doctors, it's still important: the good of the sick with the highest law. I'm worried if this bill, which will make 135 rescue teams disappear because we haven't gotten an answer, how they're going to be replaced and for what money, and I'm talking here not only about people, but mostly about ambulances, ambulances... this bill is going to cause a manifest loss. But I would like to look a little more at this aspect of the return to centralization and socialism, because I cannot understand it. We often refer to examples of pre-war Poland as better, and there... about rescue maybe we wouldn't talk, but I will remind you what ideas we've been fighting so far. I don't want to mention Bakunin, a singer of anarchism, who said it was necessary for all kinds of land and capital to become collective property. I do not want to mention Hilary Minc, who said that this was the case: either the state apparatus and the growing power of the state can subdue the market and then our industry will gradually become completely and consistently socialist, or the market will not be mastered and the capitalist element will become dominant. Well, nothing to add, nothing to say. Let's quote the constitution. National property: mineral deposits, water, forests, mines, state industrial plants, state-owned agricultural holdings, state-owned commercial enterprises, municipal enterprises and equipment Except we've got the wrong constitution because it's 1952. It ran out of vinegar on the shelves. And this belief that what is stately is better, after the experiences of socialism on the way to communism scares me. A short philosophical dictionary, such a work in the People's Republic of Poland was created, defines: private ownership of a reactionary and capitalist form of property coming down to a lamus of history, replaced by state and collective-proletarian property. Well, we're kind of heading in that direction. But I'm getting to the point. 135 ambulances will disappear. We don't know what we're gonna replace them with. I have the impression that this law has a strong lobbyist background on the part of trade unions, and their representatives have repeatedly expressed themselves. I'm afraid that's the law. trade unions Fight for your own, but the law of the rulers or the duty of the rulers is to remain prudent. And I am quite sure that in a few months' time when private entities are removed from the market, the same trade unionists will come for the raises because they will be monopolisists and there will be no way to replace them. The government's job is to maintain this balance, but you don't want it. I'm not going to talk about the Volunteer Firefighter anymore, because this is an extremely important addition to the State Firefighter, here we are not proposing such a thing. If we were consistent, we should basically state whether, as you say, we should go public with NZOZs, funeral establishments, maybe agriculture... Well, if we're fighting for citizens' health and what's private is bad, then maybe we need to get it all figured out... And I get the feeling that I'm looking at the next laws that the government brings to this point. You may be doing this unconsciously, but I will quote the greatest classic: The first step of the revolution is to lift up the proletariat in the ruling class, to fight democracy. The proletariat will use his political rule to rip all the capital out of the bourgeoisie to centralize all the tools in the hands of the state, that is, in the hand organized as the ruling class of the proletariat. It is a quote from the Communist Manifesto of Charles Marks. Let's keep going down this road, and it's going to end with the fact that there's only going to be vinegar on the shelves. It's just this time. I'm going back to the beginning of my argument. The stakes are much higher because it is at stake to save people's lives. This law, whether we like it or not, puts life and health at risk unnecessarily, destroying a functioning system. Because of the case of Rawa or Mława As in the case of the court, when the judge has stolen the knife, we are removing the Supreme Court of the State, instead of perfecting the system, you are making it state. And there is nothing to hide from the words "public" etc., because symbiosis, sometimes difficult, cooperation between the private and public sectors in this matter has been beneficial to the sick. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I am making amendments to abolish this obligation 51% State participation in entities eligible for rescue services. And I ask the High Senate to accept the appropriate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator, Minister Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I can't help myself, because the predecessor quoted so many philosophers to quote the Latin proverb: barba non faci Philosophum - beard doesn't make philosopher. I'd change one word here: citare, quote, non faci Philosophum. Because what connection to the bill we're considering has what my predecessor was talking about, I don't quite know. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I take full responsibility for this law. I have the honour to be the one who directed her to the Council of Ministers. Then, in December, when I was Minister of Health, this project went to the Sejm. And I'm not avoiding that responsibility. I believe that this project has recently been slightly improved, whether this law is a step in the right direction. In 2006, when Prof. Zbigniew Religa prepared a law on State Medical Rescue That's a lot to talk about today. And it can be said that during these 10 years, because exactly after 10 years we started working at the Ministry of Health to revise the medical emergency regulations, there was a lot going on, and it was simply necessary to proceed with the analysis and improvement of this good law. In 2011, the last national medical rescue competition took place, and it is true today that less than 10% of the teams are private teams. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that among other things. that is why there have been no competitions, and not in the last 2 years, because in many years the existence of the government of the Civic Platform and PSL government before the rule of law and justice there have been no competitions that everyone responsible for this was aware and still realized that if there were to be a competition today, or in 2012, 2013, 2014 and subsequent years, there would certainly be much more private entities on the market. There's no doubt about that. Would there be half of them or more... Not because they are better players, they are better service providers, just because they are more flexible and, for example, in market conditions, under conditions of fierce competition. they show the staff, which is really not in the place to which the competition is concerned, but somewhere in some theoretical capacity of this entity. That's just how it works. And among others. that's why these competitions didn't take place and that's why only 8% or 10% market operators are private entities. When it comes to comparisons with other countries, then... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry, but as people talk about it, people who don't know what they're talking about come out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, practically, systems are in place throughout Europe. No, with little exceptions It's either totally public or public, or nonprofit. 'Cause, you know, like... The great countries that surround us, such as Germany or Austria, which actually allow non-public entities to provide services in medical rescue, have a red cross, Maltese, Joannites and such entities. There are no profit-oriented companies there. It's a complete pathology. And, of course, countries where medical rescue is state-of-the-art With all due respect to the Minister, the Minister has exchanged Sweden's emotions. There's a lot more. This is, of course, the United Kingdom, which is, to the surprise of many, e.g. France, where the public emergency service of the SAMU is completely state-owned, etc. And in many countries, as I have said, if there are non-public entities, then they are, I would say, so squeezed with various kinds of regulations that there is no competition, no market, what we have been dealing with here and what, if we open competitions for medical rescue, would happen immediately with us. Ladies and gentlemen, since the issue of public relations has dominated the debate on the law, I think it is worth reminding you of at least a few aspects that we have talked less about, and they are extremely important. First of all, as I said, in 2016, when we started thinking about the amendment, and basically two amendments, so-called. a small and large one that I hope will Someday it's gonna happen... Well, we're dealing with this average right now, because the small one has increased by a whole range of solutions. And it's a good thing it did. First of all, there's a matter of concentrated medical dispatchers. This is, of course, a step in the right direction, but, ladies and gentlemen, here we can really doubt whether this should be faster. But we also need to be aware that this whole process was a process of getting along with many parties, as they say. Interested parties. And these stakeholders were very many: they were local governments, local government units, they were doctors and rescuers, they were voivodeships, they were Air Rescue and so on. In short, this trial... Of course, these non-public providers too. In a way. I'm sorry it's dragging on like this. The fact that at the moment we are facing another deferral of the entry into force of this publication, that is some kind of compromise with these actors. And everything's going in the right direction. The second point is the SWD system. He needs to be repaired. And this transfer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to the Ministry of Health is a good move, it is worth noting. It is also a good thing that the Air Rescue Service will be the administrator of this system, because it is the only supraterritorial unit in Poland that is entirely in the hands of the state. And it's right that this unit will be responsible. It is also the right move that this unit will assume responsibility for the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue with different attributes, including post-graduate education, exams... There's no doubt about it. State Medical Rescue is a special kind or a special part of Polish health service and in this sense entrusting parts of the activities of PRM to various institutions, it seems, just in the long run will not work. It is extremely important, but not discussed here, that further steps are taken to integrate the State Medical Rescue, to varying degrees, with mining rescue, with the Maritime Search and Rescue Service, as well as with the National Rescue and Fire Safety System, the State Fire Department, but also with voluntary firefighters, and finally, what is worth noting, with some units subordinate to the Ministry of National Defence, as well as some services subordinate to the Ministry of Interior and Administration. I'm talking about it because of, among other things. integration with different types of rescue services in a broad sense is linked to the issue of this publicity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that State Medical Rescue is just an ambulance that comes to a sick or injured person or even to a major accident with several victims. This is service, and I do not hesitate to use this term, even though it is not a uniform service, as some would like, which must be ready for mass events, and also, this also needs to be spoken openly, for events beyond our imagination, e.g. in case of war. And certainly integrating the functioning of State Medical Rescue with those services that will always remain public or even state without question is the right decision. I draw attention to the fact that we are not talking so much about nationalisation, because we are not going as far as we are. The French, who, as I said, have such a service, SAMU, which is completely state-owned, as we say: no, we invite you to share responsibility for State Medical Rescue mainly units of local government, because they are the majority owners of those units who already take responsibility and in the future take responsibility for State Medical Rescue. So this step is a step in the right direction. If I can express my regret, it's only because it's not faster, it's a little slower. But I have no doubt that the next steps that will ensure publicity, and all the other elements that I have been talking about, which will enter slowly, at a later time, will make the State Medical Rescue simply work better. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Minister, before I go to the point, I'd like to say one sentence. What you said about Senator Grodzki's statement... After all, it was the State as the Law and Justice that you said that you would not only listen but also listen with understanding. I therefore wish to the Minister, and especially to the political class of Law and Justice, that you listen with understanding. And now to the substance of listening with understanding. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I understand you have spoken on behalf of the Law and Justice... I am speaking on my own behalf and I would like to say that most of the issues relating to this bill are good for me, it speaks to me, I think it has its good side, starting with the concentration of management, because in today's world, in the age of the internet, of fast connections, the concentration of management is one of the elements of effective achievement of objectives... I don't think anybody's complaining here. Whether sooner or slower, of course, the voices in the discussion... I understand that what concerns security should not be done. Not too fast, not too slow. When we're ready, we do it, of course, without stretching it in time. But if we include the ideology of lifeguards, ambulances and all these services that we provide... And now I'm going to say that there are two extreme views. One is proclaimed by socialists and communists who say that every worst state is better than any private one. It's philosophy... [[We don't support these communists.]] We don't support these communists. And there's a second opinion, extremely liberal, which says that every state is better than any state... [[Voices from the room: Private.]] Sorry, private. Private, I'm out of line. That's why... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore, it is important not to fall into either extreme. And not to say that only state medical rescue counts, that is, where all tasks are carried out by state units and persons employed for employment contracts in state units subordinate to the voivodeship. And in the second extremely liberal option, not to say that only private entities are the ones that best provide services. These are some extreme ideologies. The wisdom and discretion mentioned here by Professor Grodzki is that power should be prudent when making decisions. What does it mean to be prudent in this regard, Minister? You know, I personally do. Mr. Minister, as I see it, vice versa, like the Minister, the Ministry and all the political class of Law and Justice That's 8%. Private units during the war, as I hear, can cause this war to fail. Well, that's right, Minister, let's get rid of these 8%. Because then we'll be safer, then we'll be safe! In addition, these 8% Just like the minister said, we're gonna lose the system. If I don't name bad things in the town of X, what does that mean? What do you have to do? Not fixing the state oversight system, just... Because what does it mean, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, state health care, state medical rescue? It means that the state has money, a control system, a system of evaluation, analysis and drawing conclusions and in crisis situations can react. This is, Minister, a wise country that uses human resources in the form of private individuals and public entities. And that's the wisdom. Personally, I think that a lot of good has been done in health care since 1990. And when you read the polls, you can see that, among other things, privatisation of primary health care... I asked the president, Senator Kraska, here. After all, these are private entrepreneurs, as they come out in the analysis, operating in POZ... You can, as the Minister said, criticize them and say they're too greedy. Well, they may be, but you have to be able to talk to them and talk to them, the ones from the Green Góra Agreement. And that is also an important element, that we listen and talk. In addition to state units, we have private units. And the country is ideologically into it. State means mine, ours, and others can do something bad to us or they can't leave for an accident. I mean, you're telling me things that you don't know. If these 8% individuals would overthrow the entire system, which would mean that we are living in a country that cannot supervise this important task, namely medical rescue. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to say yes. If, in abstraction from all this, you look at the current of the river... And politics, making decisions is also such a river. Well, where's the safest place? On one side, on the other, or when you're in the middle of a river? Why do ships usually flow in the middle of the river? Yeah, that's one of the reasons. It's such a big river-related metaphor. It's safest when there's a mixture of left and right. And you want to let everything go on the left side, because everything in the state is better. Now imagine this situation. If there's an entity in the county that's doing the job of a county hospital today, works, has a contract, also a medical emergency contract, then what are you gonna do now? You're gonna say no, no, no? And either the county's gonna take over and he's gonna be 51%. , or I'm sorry. We're going to create our own unit and it's going to be our own job... Well, it's paranoid. For purely ideological reasons, you want to introduce solutions that are unnecessary. Gros of the bill is very good and should be implemented as soon as possible, but here for ideological reasons, about which Prof. Grodzki and I spoke, you are introducing state medical rescue in case of war. Well, what I'm saying is, in the event of a war, medical rescue will have enough power in the form of 90%. or 80% to carry out tasks arising from military or defence needs. I, of course, also advocate, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, against total privatisation and even the majority privatisation of all health care or other areas, but allowing certain private elements always improves the system Always, there's a rule. And that also applies to health care. I'm against what the Minister said, I'm against opening a whole medical rescue contest because we don't buy nails here. Quality, market existence, guarantees and other such things must be secured by the choice of the entity that will provide the service. What if it turns out he's not fulfilling his obligations, his contract? Well, that's why we have the whole system of state oversight to respond to that. Therefore, I do not fully understand the state's stubbornness and belief that state rescue is purely state-owned rescue. Rescue is state then Once again, I would like to say this to my president, as well. When the state has the money and distributes the money. The State distributes this money I'm talking about health care. It transmits them to the realizers it can account for and draws conclusions. If they don't do it, they need to be changed. And this is the role of the state, not that the state has money, it does it itself, accounts itself, draws conclusions and turns around itself. This is a system that I will quote from Prof. Grodzki's statement that seeks to connect socialism with communism, which I do not wish Poland and its inhabitants with all my heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. For the second time, right? [[Yes.]] Five minutes, then. [[Voice from the room: It's 13.36.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I do not agree with the justification you have given by saying that the competitions were stopped in 2012. This was a completely different reason for these competitions, because in 2012 we started working on the concentration of dispatchers. Let me just give you an example of the Wielkopolska voivodship, where there were 31 dispatchers. We started to reduce this number, but in 2 neighboring counties there was 1 dispatcher room. The competitions take place in a given area, and the area... It was the dispatch room, it was the area of operation. Therefore, this concentration lasted and we completed it at stage 5 of the dispatcher's office, 5 regions in each former voivodeship. And now we could do a contest because nothing's changed here in two and a half years. There are 42 dispatchers left, and now a competition could be held in these areas. Not much, as I said before, is another mistake connected with what you want to do with this competition, with this proceeding. We should put these voivodeships in the voivodeship first, reduce the number of those voivodships, and then run the competitions so we don't do what you're about to do. It will soon be clear that the competition must cover the operational area concerned, so you will once again block the continuation of this reform. So that's not a good solution. Minister, the second case is the SWD PRM system. You had to create a police sPD, a fire department sPD, and the PRM was the last and the longest case went on. The important thing was to get these systems together, also at the emergency call center, and that's why there were these shifts by a year. Okay, that's it. That's it. That's it. However, there were no further obstacles to these competitions. Now we need to consider whether this is the right direction. And one more point. The Minister said at the end that... it was probably the attention of the medical rescuers who heard from the Minister's mouth today such an important statement that they would not be able to protest now. Hopefully to all rescuers. I'm thinking about those protests that were organized. This message has arrived. [[You're encouraging them.]] No, I'm not encouraging you. It's just that I've been through it. I know what a rescue protest looks like, and I know what needs to be done so that these protests don't happen, and I know that what you're doing right now is wrong. I would like to say once again that if you introduce what you want to introduce, you will have protests, but I will not develop it again. Ladies and gentlemen, I now submit amendments to the amendment to the new Law on State Medical Rescue. The first amendment is that in Article. 1 the new wording of paragraph 24 is appropriate. 2: In the Mazowieckie voivodship, in the Silesian voivodship and in the Wielkopolska voivodship, voivodships can create and run two medical dispatch offices. I'm just going to repeat what I've already mentioned once again when it comes to population numbers. The bill says there's 1 dispatcher for 200,000 people. You don't change this country, nothing will change here. This border voivodship is the Wielkopolska voivodship, where the number of dispatchers would have to be 18 plus those remaining. It's gonna be hard to organize. In Lublin Voivodeship there are 6 dispatchers, in Opolskie 5, in Świętokrzyskie 7. There's no problem. But in the Wielkopolska voivodship... This is, I'd say, border voivodship. I'm making an amendment because I know what the possibilities are for organizing all this. Now for the next case. I've got two minutes left, so I'll be quick. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 32. is deleted. It's about the rescue teams. This is the 51% we're talking about. That could be... I suspect this is the same amendment... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8. paragraph shall be deleted. 7. It's important, and that's what I'm talking about. It's a simple matter. I'm gonna read this paragraph. Until 31 December 2027, medical dispatchers may operate in a number greater than that specified, i.e. 42. It can really be removed from the bill without any problems. Article 1 may also be deleted. 19 referring to the fact that contracts for the performance of the tasks of medical rescue teams may be concluded with the medical entities concerned... It's actually the consequence of the same... It's the 51%. Art. 19 is precisely what you call statehood. I would like to make such amendments, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. I fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u139	Thank you for that. Senator Grodzki also has a second time, so he also has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll try to talk for less than five minutes. I don't think we understand each other. Senator Florek's been giving light advice here, and he doesn't expect a reward for it. Mr. Senator was a longtime Wielkopolska voivode, and I think from practice he knows what he's talking about. I've worked in an emergency room for 10 years, and I could tell you a little bit. If you'll allow the marshal to use five minutes, I won't philosophize. I never thought I was a philosopher. I will quote in a free translation what is written on the web page about the SAM. Activities in the field of rescue services in France and Luxembourg are carried out by a mix of organisations, a mixture of organisations operating under public control. The central control unit is SAMU, which is supported by other resources, mainly fire department and private ambulances that drive with or without a doctor. So much for historical truth. And that's what this is all about. The point is to keep the coordination at dispatch level. Although I have already heard of problems of this type, that the Western Pomeranian budget is calculated for 3 dispatchers in one change, and standards predict that there should be 8 of them. Well, it's in state entities. We're about to run out of strings. I don't want to go into those details. I think we're talking about the same thing, the system's efficiency. Yes, coordination is important. But it is equally important to use all, not the richest sources we have, i.e. private, state and nonprofits, as Senator Radziwiłł said, including the use of the resources of the Red Cross, Joannites or Maltese. That should be our goal. In the meantime, I don't know what case with stubbornness. I'm just saying not to use stronger words. We're trying to get the system state-of-the-art, which, I'm afraid, even with the best intentions, isn't going to end the way everyone would expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u141	Thank you very much. Senator Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senate! I'm shocked to hear Senator Flork speak. I'm sure the Minister didn't say that she banned medical emergency strikes, and your voice kind of encouraged it. Right? I can't imagine strikes in this area at all, because... [[They were, weren't they?]] ...this may concern you, Senator, and you, and me. During our return from this meeting, many things may happen to us, and I cannot imagine that the rescue team would not reach because they took a protest action. So I think we're politicians, but we should keep some boundaries, because this is a very sensitive part of health care. This is the moment when we're committed to when and what team will come to us. We can't choose it because we're the victims of a traffic accident, and whether the ambulance will come quickly, not only from how it's equipped, but also from who in this ambulance will be If it's a good lifeguard, well-trained, good doctor. Our lives often depend on us. And it's not like we're gonna fix it up in a minute, 'cause there's gonna be a better ambulance, a better lifeguard. Unfortunately, there is no time. So let us not use such words, Senator, because it really is unworthy of this House, I think. The Act touches the medical dispatcher, and mostly it concerns the heart of the State Medical Rescue system, because it actually calls an ambulance. Whether it's 112 or 999, we have the first contact with the medical dispatcher and how he's going to qualify this call, how he's gonna dispose of the ambulance, often the whole cascade of the next events, which can't be reversed. So I think it's up to how this dispatch office works and what people work there, depending on how things go on, when it comes to a sudden event that can often end in death. Because we provide psychological support in difficult situations... Because these are also people who take several hundred calls, are very burdened with this work, and emotionally they may not be able to handle it. That's why they need this support, I think, very much, especially since it has been in other services for many, many years. So that there will be cyclical courses, that there will be procedures by which you will be followed by dispatchers, and that there will be identical procedures throughout Poland 'Cause we want access and quality of medical care services to be the same across the country. I think this bill provides. The fact that she was born in pain... This is indeed a compromise with many environments. However, I think that in this case all sudden decisions could have a profoundly bad impact on the implementation of medical rescue tasks. At the moment, indeed, the IT system, which is being implemented and which is constantly being improved, is very easy to work and very speed up the response of the dispatchers to the event, although it also requires continuous improvement and evolution. Therefore, although adjustment deadlines may seem quite long, I think they are needed. There was talk of various medical emergency systems in many countries. At the emergency medical congress, the Israeli system was used as a model, right? It is the conditions under which the people of Israel live that forced this system to be practically perfected. There are no doctors in the ambulances, but if you look at the ambulance that reaches the event in Israel, you can see that the lifeguard holds the oxygen mask with one hand and holds the other hand on the holster with the gun. But these are completely different conditions. So we can't transplant certain things on our soil, because it's actually different in every country. The habit of our citizens being driven by a doctor in an ambulance... So far, there's a lot of resistance if the dispatcher says there's an ambulance coming in and there's only rescuers in it. There's a lot of resistance because people think there should be a doctor after all. We're leaving this system. We're not doing this revolutionaryly, but evolutionaryly. I think it's the so-called one. a small amendment is one of the steps that will be even greater in the major revision of the Medical Rescue Act. That is why I am asking you to adopt this law with the amendments I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u143	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u144	If I may, because I'd like to correct my statement... I said, referring to the Minister... I told you the minister said they wouldn't be able to protest. I wasn't talking about the strike. It's recorded, you can check it out. That's the phrase the Minister used, I just repeated it. And as for those ambulances, it's gonna increase... This bill doesn't change anything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u145	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Would the Minister like to speak? Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u146	Mr. Marshal, I only have two sentences to correct. As for this statement, which the senator quoted just moments ago, I would ask you to listen to my statement. I was talking about how they can't strike, but they can protest in different forms. That was my answer, and I wish it hadn't been transformed. [[What's the difference between a protest and a strike?]] And there was another statement here, which is not true, namely that I said that the Zielona Góra Agreement is greedy. That's not the word I used. I merely indicated that private entities cannot be presented as entities guaranteeing continuity of benefits. And I gave an example of the Green Góra Agreement. High Izbo, please accept this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u147	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Kraska, Grodzki and Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? As I understand it, that was just an attitude, wasn't it? Yes. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 785 and the report of the committee In print No 785 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am honored to present to you this law, a law on the title, which does not say much about the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Public Health Benefits Act is one of the laws, so to speak, constitutional for the health system. The amendment concerns the part related to investment assessments and, in principle, investment proposals. As some of you may remember, the Law of a similar name on 21 July 2016 introduced the so-called. IOWISZ, the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector. This regulation entered into force on 30 September 2016 and it can be said that from the very beginning of its operation we started analytical work on its functioning in the Ministry of Health. It was a completely innovative solution, modelled on some countries with even quite liberal health systems. There were some protests here, they said that someone would judge investment proposals rather than leave it to those who want to invest, and most of the time not so much to invest their own money, but to ask them to finance investment from public funds. IOWISZ, because it is the acronym of this instrument, is a tool that allows to assess comprehensively the appropriateness of the investment in health care. This is about investments such as: expansion of the facility, purchase of new medical equipment, especially expensive equipment. One of the priorities for changes in health care, designed at the beginning of the government's term of law and justice, was to increase the efficiency of spending, which means not only more money but also better spent money and better disposal of limited ones. Even when it's more than that. IOWISZ is an instrument that guarantees rational and transparent public spending, including European spending, which is worth recalling. But also And it's very important. It is a tool for those who want to invest wisely in health care. 'Cause sometimes it's not just intuition, hunch, good will. We know very many examples of this, I think most of you know such examples from your electoral districts. That they invested in something that just didn't make sense. The equipment came from the factory, and after a few years it turned out that somewhere there was unwrapped, and if it was unwrapped, it works on one end of its capabilities, which is just a waste, but also an unnecessary effort of the entire community. The evaluation under IOWISZ is based on a look at the investment from many perspectives Not only the development of Polish health services, but also the Polish economy, as well as social needs. It's all taken into account. In the assessment it is taken into account e.g. impact on the implementation of identified health needs, which are included in health needs maps, infrastructure, equipment, finance, patient situation and their families, e.g. professional activation, as well as professional health professionals, and finally the development of science, innovation and education. In practice, we can talk about the duality of this tool, which is an evaluation questionnaire, as well as the decision-making process, which is supported by an extensive ICT system. IOWISZ's mechanism of action is based on several assumptions. The questionnaire evaluates the extent to which the project of the investment is in line with the intended directions of development of health protection, by addressing the different types of priorities proposed and implemented by the relevant institutions in individual questions. That's one thing. Secondly, the assessment is cascaded, which is to ensure the voivodeship and in the case of units under the control of the Ministry of Health, the Minister for Health The broadest possible perspective on the question of whether the investment concerned meets the criteria while at the same time objectiveising the opinion issued. In principle, the individual criteria are assessed on a scale of 1 to 10, allowing the opinion-makers to compare the investments considered in the region in question effectively. Each question has its own weight. These weights indicate how important a criterion is in terms of health development strategies and at the same time how the answer to a question affects the final outcome. The first evaluating application is the applicant himself, who must reply to a questionnaire when submitting an application, not only by awarding points, but also and this is very important for further steps Short and precise justification for how the investment corresponds to the priority concerned. Where the applicant disagrees with subsequent assessments National Health Fund, voivodeship or minister He has the right to protest. There's a whole appeal procedure here. In accordance with the current provisions of the Act, which was, you can say, a kind of pilotage, such a slightly shy pilot, we narrowed it down only to certain areas of IOWISZ apply when the investment concerns the scope of hospital treatment, outpatient specialized care or primary health care. At this moment, after a year and a half of experience with IOWISZ, one can say that these experiences are very good and actually from the very beginning it has been noted that this narrowing was right when it comes to piloting this solution, while ultimately it should be extended. For today, during this year and a half, a total of nearly 1 thousand 500 applications were submitted, of which 213 were sent directly to the Minister of Health and over 1 thousand 200 to the voivodships. The results are interesting. At the first stage, around 30% were rejected, a total of 978 opinions were delivered. There were 833 positive opinions, or 86%. This means that there are opinions that are negative, and that is simply where the investment process ends. This is very important from the point of view of the rationalness of spending these measures. On the other hand, a number of very interesting experiences have been gathered in relation to individual stakeholders' opinions, but also in general the whole system. Hence the bill we're considering today. What changes are proposed? They are, on the one hand, the result of experience and, on the other hand, simply the fulfilment of the demands of individual stakeholders involved in the process: applicants, the National Health Fund, voivodships and ministry staff who are involved. First of all, 2 IOWISZ areas are introduced: mandatory area and optional area. It is mandatory for such investments as the medicinal entity, but also for those who wish to create a medicinal entity, to obtain a grant from the state budget, i.e. the means of ministers, central government authorities, voivodships, also EU funds. A positive opinion will be submitted together with a request for a grant. There's one exception or a group of exceptions. This is a situation where the investment is to be financed or co-financed by a grant of not more than PLN 1 million. When funding is to be provided by the Minister for National Defence or the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, as well as situations where this value is greater, but the investment is to be carried out for defence or State security purposes, because it is simply another area. It is very important that applications can be submitted within this optional area. It can be said that, on the one hand, the shield that protects us from unreasonable spending, but on the other hand, support for those who want to invest, but are not entirely sure whether the idea they have come up with, even if they have their resources, is really reasonable and fits in with health needs and priorities. According to the Act, the opinion on the purpose of the investment will be issued on request. And here are the changes to the current legislation, first of all, the healthcare provider, secondly, the entity that intends to set up a medical facility, and as I said, today there was a complication if someone just wanted to start an activity, and thirdly, the entity that intends to pursue a medical activity even before it created something. This is a very important change. An important change is also an extension of the scope of healthcare services for which it is possible to submit an application. We're moving away from this narrowing down to hospitals, outpatient care and POZ. All other areas will also be covered by the IOWISZ action or the possibility of obtaining an opinion under this mechanism. As I have already mentioned, it is possible to obtain an optional opinion regardless of the value of the investment in all cases of health investment. Among the major changes that are worth mentioning, there is also a change that talks about applying when it concerns more than one medical field. In such a situation, the proposal should include a justification for each area separately. This has so far been a problem which has been noted during this 1.5 year of experience, and in such a situation the justification will have to cover separately each of the medical fields. In addition, it is precisely in connection with this amendment that the law also introduces a differentiation in the amount of the application fees depending on whether the investment concerned is one- or a multi-profile investment. This encourages us to rethink the investment proposal and prepare it in an appropriate way, so that we do not think about any further proposals that would be much more costly for the investor, but to submit a multi-profile proposal that is more economical. On the other hand, it is not possible to exempt any application from the fee. And it's supposed to be for applicants to think about the whole thing before they apply for it. It is, in short, not only to finance in an appropriate way, precisely from these fees, all the work done by the voivods and the Minister for Health, but also to ensure that the proposals are well prepared so that they can actually be properly assessed. The Act also introduces such a mechanism of self-control. That is, when the applicant disagrees with the negative opinion of the voivode, after completing the application the voivode may change the decision itself, and not, as so far, address it to the Minister of Health. Most cases, when the Minister of Health changed the decision of the voivode, were simply conclusions, can be said in simplification, corrected. And that's what this is all about, so the voivode can do it himself. And finally, one of the most important issues: the introduction of a new and this is a clear expectation of all involved, both applicants and evaluators The area of action of IOVISZ. The idea is not only to take into account such investments, it is possible to say the original, or expanding potential, but also to make it a separate regulation for replacement investments, i.e., such major renovations. It has been noted in the process of the work so far that such replacement investments do not fall very much within the existing regulations, and this is why a new area is being introduced. This will be served by a new IOWISH questionnaire, which will be issued in the form of a regulation of the Minister of Health. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am pleased to inform you that the Health Committee has decided to recommend the adoption of a law without amendments after discussing the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u149	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll order a 40-minute recess by 2.40 p.m. But before that, Senator Secretary will present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u150	High Senate! The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws, Senate printing No. 799, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate session in room 179. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 09 to 15 minutes 12]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u151	I'm extending the recess until 3:30. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 12 to 15 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 799 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, the Commission has examined amendments to the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws and asks the High Senate to support the conclusions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u153	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendments 1 and 8 provide that a paramedic and a system nurse will be able to provide health services without the consent of the patient if he requires immediate assistance and, due to the state of health or age, he is unable to consent and is not able to agree with his statutory representative or guardian. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 84 votes, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 1]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 clarifies the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 85 votes for, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendments 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15, 16, 17 and 18 extend the catalogue of entities that process data in the State Medical Rescue Command System, and extend the period during which existing contracts for the tasks of medical rescue teams will apply until the end of the first quarter of 2019, as well as the dates of entry into force of the provisions concerning the construction of the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue and the preparation and conduct of courses for medical dispatchers and voivodship medical emergency coordinators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 Senators voted, 56 for, 29 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 allows 2 medical dispatchers to be run by the voivodeship in Wielkopolska Voivodship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 28 for, 53 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 4]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendments 7 and 13 remove provisions eliminating non-public entities with medical rescue teams from the State Medical Rescue System. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] I state that the amendments have been rejected. Amendment 11 removes the regulation setting out the number of medical dispatchers in place until the end of 2027. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 for, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 14 corrects language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 55 for, 28 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information. The text of the Act is contained in print No 794 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 794 A and 794 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Government Departments and the Law on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information. This law was examined by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 19 April. As a result of the vote at the meeting, the committee recommends that the draft law be adopted without amendments. As regards the law itself, the purpose of amending the Law on the departments of government administration and the Infrastructure of Spatial Information Act is to transfer spatial infrastructure issues from the IT division to the construction, spatial planning and development department and housing. It is the consequence of the acquisition by the Minister of Investment and Development of the management of the construction, planning and land-use and housing division under the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2018 on the detailed scope of the Minister of Investment and Development. Amendment of the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, namely Article. 1 novel, boils down to the transfer of infrastructure issues of spatial information from the IT division to the construction, spatial planning and development and housing department. In turn, the amendments proposed in the Law of 4 March 2010 on the Infrastructure for Spatial Information assume that the creation and maintenance of the geoportal of spatial information infrastructure, as a central access point to spatial services, and the keeping of publicly available records of the collections and services of spatial data covered by the infrastructure and the granting of uniform identifiers to them will be the responsibility of the main surveyor of the country. That's what Art says. Point 2 of the Novel. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, in conjunction with Article. Point 2 (3) of the novels indicated that the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing through the main surveyor of the country, and not, as so far, the Minister responsible for computerization, carries out the tasks set out in Article. 18, i.e. the creation, maintenance and development of infrastructure for spatial information. In addition, in the annex to the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, chapter 1 of Section 7 proposes an amendment to refer to the current legal act... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, wait a minute, I'd ask you to keep your conversation quiet, okay? Because that's what bothers the senator, he's got to go through that noise. Hello! Hello! I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] The law was passed at the 60th first session of the Sejm on 13 April and came from a government presentation. The bill was supported by 270 Members during the vote in the Sejm, 152 against, 3 abstentions. In the legislative field, the Act raises no objections to the Senate Legislative Office. At the meeting of the local government committee, the government side was represented by Marek Zagórski, Minister of Digitization. A brief discussion ensued. A few questions have been asked by the Minister, who has answered these questions quite comprehensively. As for the topics that the senators were asking during a brief discussion at the committee meeting, which they were paying attention to, one of the topics that was going through... That was basically the question, the first question: why did the opposition in the Sejm vote against this bill? Minister Zagórski presented a statement of reasons on the part of the opposition, which he knew, namely that a year ago, during the process of the bill, the opposition expressed some reservations, which were not, so to speak, supported, and the consequence was the vote against this bill. A momentary discussion during the committee meeting also triggered the issue of the social council, which... one second, I'm gonna find it. It was a matter of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council. The point is that after moving to the Ministry of Investment and Development, the Minister will have the opportunity to introduce staff changes in this collegial body. However, the Minister pointed out that, firstly, it is a collegial body but a social body, and secondly, it is mostly made up of members of the Council of Ministers, and therefore it is unlikely that such changes will be made. This piece of legislation did not raise any doubts at the committee meeting. As regards the vote at the committee meeting, four senators voted in favour of this proposal without amendments, one senator abstained. That's it, thank you. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Could I ask you a second question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u155	In a minute, in a minute. Now the next rapporteur. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis will report to the Infrastructure Committee on this bill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Sir! Gentlemen! The Commission dealt with the Law of 13 April 2018 amending the Law on Government Departments and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, which aims at transferring spatial infrastructure issues from the Information Technology Division to the Construction, Land Planning and Housing Department. In fact, the aim is to improve the non-functional part of the geoportal, in particular that of introducing information into it. This improvement will increase the functionality of socially useful information structures. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 19th Spatial Information Infrastructure Act indicated that it was the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing through the main surveyor of the country, and not, as yet, the Minister responsible for computerization shall carry out the tasks set out in Article. 18, such as the creation, maintenance and development of infrastructure for spatial information. Senator Florek spoke during the committee's deliberations, and Senator Pekkis spoke briefly. No comments were made by the legislative representative at the meeting. After these two short speeches, a vote took place. Six votes in favour, one senator abstained. Mr Zagórski here also participated in the committee's deliberations. In fact, we discussed this point briefly, in substance, without controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Question for Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, I understand, yes? [[Senator Pekkis.]] Pockets? I'm sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u158	If he's standing by the bleacher, I'll ask you a question right away. Namely, once this department of government was, I guess, assigned differently. And why is this change happening now? Because this department was first assigned to one ministry, then to another, now we're kind of going back to the original formula. I remember that there was a discussion about this the last time we discussed the Law on Departments. At that time, the subject of spatial information raised such questions. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about what is the justification for this change actually restoring some state that was in the past? Well, yeah, I'm getting it, maybe I'm getting it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u159	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u160	During the presentation of the proposed amendments, the Minister pointed out that this is precisely the non-functional part of the introduction of information into the geoportal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u161	Are there any other questions? You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Why, in the new law that you are proposing, do you take away the competence of the main surveyor? As part of the reorganisation, you are handing over some of his tasks to the Minister. Are you doing this because this minister decides where the areas under your apartments are to be armed as part of your program? And second question. Does the provisions contained in this project concerning the inclusion of the existing tasks of the Minister of Digitisation in the tasks of the Minister for Construction, Planning and Land Planning and Housing mean the liquidation or the beginning of the liquidation of the Ministry of Digitisation? Because this ministry, as we can see, is gradually limited when it comes to various important tasks, of course. And it would be necessary, Mr. Senator, to consider in this situation what is the meaning of its continued operation. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u163	Well, maybe I'll start with the second question, 'cause the answer's gonna be easier. During the committee meeting, we did not consider the sense of the continued functioning of the Ministry of Digitalization. It wasn't considered. As for the first question, during his speech, Senator Florek referred to the subject that you were asking about. The fact that it was as if the expression of his feelings, intentions and thoughts resulting from his many years of experience did not end with the question, and therefore the minister did not answer it as a question. There were literally two brief speeches at the committee meeting. Therefore, I have a proposal, Senator, that, because the Minister is present, the Minister may ask these questions, because this was not the subject of the committee's work. [[Thank you very much, because I worked in construction for many years and my question is justified, and I would not like to extend...]] Of course... [[...because we only have a minute.]] ...doesn't question it. It's obvious, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u164	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, in this geoportal... If you don't... If this has not been discussed, I will, of course, ask the Minister, who is present at our meeting. I understand that this geoportal, in which this information is collected, is generally available, and I understand that for this geoportal there are e.g. all local spatial planning plans are implemented in Poland. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u166	I mean, it's... the fact that it's public, I know for a fact, because I've been checking out some information recently, and I know it can be done. As far as the zoning plan is concerned, it is complicated only that there is no obligation... that, above all, the municipalities do not have an obligation to run... It's gone, it's been withdrawn. But I also see the Minister's reaction. This wasn't the subject of a committee meeting. I'm so sorry, Senator. The Minister will soon have his time and I think he can be thoroughly questioned on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u167	Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u168	Since I'm a member of the Infrastructure Committee, maybe a question for Senator Grabowski. On my side, there's only one question, and I'm not gonna ask any more questions. I'm a little confused, so my question is this: creating, maintaining and developing spatial infrastructure is coordinated by what minister? 'Cause I'm too... Well, I can't figure it out anymore. Creating, maintaining, developing spatial infrastructure What minister? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u169	Well, well, well. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u170	At this point, the entire department returns to the Minister for Investment and Development. Yeah, right now. But as my previous speaker, a colleague of Senator Pekkis, pointed out, in fact the main element of this law is the matter of this geoportal. At the meeting of the local government committee, Minister Zagórski referred to this. I didn't ask that question, but that's the question. As for the geoportal, which was functioning under the Main Office of Geodesy and Cartography, there were mainly organizational problems, concerning data, such as those on this geoportal, because not only... because these are different types of data. There is also the issue of servers, the location of servers. That was also during the committee meeting. In fact, this change will improve the organizational operation of this geoportal, its management. That's it. I don't know if I've exhausted... or if I've satisfied your curiosity, Senator. [[I'm going to ask the Minister or the Minister about this case. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u171	Senator Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u172	Thank you. Stay here, Mr. Senator... I have a question about the location, in connection with the amendment of the law, of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council. That's the kind of advice that works with the Minister of Digitalization. What about the competence and location of this counsel? Will it cease to function within the Ministry and be re-created, or will in grumio pass, along with the tasks assigned to it, to the new Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u173	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This advice is working as much as possible. However, at this point, according to the bill's amendment, she will be... she will pass under the Ministry, she will be sort of an advisory body within the Ministry of Investment and Development, and she has so far been under the Ministry of Digitalization. As Minister Zagórski pointed out at the committee meeting, she consists of... Because it's a social body, not... Because there were accusations in the Seym that it was another struggle for stools and an attempt, so to speak, to replace individual members of this council. But as the Minister pointed out, most of the members of this collegial body are members of the Council of Ministers. And here there will be no reshuffling, but only a functional transfer, i.e. in connection with the functionality of the post-change operation, after the amendment, this advice will, so to speak, be transferred. At least that's how I got it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u175	Senator Rybicki again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u176	Yeah, it was about the transfer. Is this gonna be made by some special new regulation? Is she gonna be in the new squad? What will be the rules for continuing to operate under what rules? Are those who existed in the Ministry of Digitalization or the new regulations that the Minister of Construction and Infrastructure will propose?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u177	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Well, that's not the question. I'm gonna be honest with you, no one at the committee's hearing has been so curious about this. I think the Minister will be able to answer that. The general question was whether this advice would be, and the question concerning those who would sit there. And there was the assurance that the council would continue as a social body and continue to function. And that's what I'm gonna say... I mean. On the basis of the Minister's statement, I felt that there would be no change in this council.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u179	Thank you. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Marek Zagórski like to speak on the bill? [[No, not until there's questions.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Because there are questions, Minister, I would ask you to speak. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u180	Thank you very much. Minister, I will ask the question I asked the senator of the rapporteur, but he referred me to the Minister. My question is the nature of this geoportal. What kind of information is found on this geoportal? Are the local spatial planning plans developed by the municipalities updated and implemented on an ongoing basis? Because, as you know, it is the municipalities that are involved in creating this local law. And is it so up-to-date that the citizen, for example, at point A, can check whether there is a plan for a given area in Poland, to what extent, etc., etc., and obtain such information electronically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u181	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u182	Mr. Senator, no, not at this stage, at a point, yes. This is because there is currently no obligation to draw up land-use plans, nor is this information collected in a systematic manner. Basic information is placed on the geoportal, that is the information that gathers mainly individual district ancients and the main surveyor of the country. These are the land and parcel records and other additional information that can now be made available. In general, the whole problem we have is that the different layers of land, buildings, all the properties are still not consistent, and we are still working on it. Despite the fact that the entire system of spatial information infrastructure built for many years has already cost several billion zlotys, we are still not at this stage in order to achieve the state that you are talking about. Hence, among others. return to concept I'm gonna say this by way of a little bit of a question. Integration of responsibility for these tasks, connections in one place.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u183	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question, too. Will there also be information in this register about the owner, the owners? [[No, it can't be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u184	It can't be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u185	He can't. Senator Jackowski again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u186	Minister, speaking of which... Don't you think, Minister, that perhaps it would be worth asking for a bill, a draft or an amendment of the laws currently in force, that I don't know anymore, so that such data could be introduced... so that there would be one place, this geoportal, which has already taken so much resources... The point is just to regulate it in a legal way, with some periods of access to it. It is known that these are not simple matters, and it takes time. My second question is that at one time it was loud to introduce an obligation and even allocate funds from the state budget, to draw up local land development plans for all areas in the municipalities of Poland. I think that every senator present, Mr Minister as a Member, meets with the voters... Numerous conflicts arise, especially in smaller centres, in rural areas, precisely because of the lack of these local development plans, the placement of some burdensome animal production, some objects, etc. It's made on the basis of the so-called. WZ-tek and it is often the case that in a given community they are divided into opinions as to whether it was so until the end of the lege artis, whether there was a fallandisation of the law, discussions on this subject are ongoing. In other words, if it were to create a mechanism, it would have to be spread over years... There are poor rural communities where the task of developing a local development plan exceeds their financial capacity. So here would have to be some supportive way of financing this, especially supporting these poor municipalities. But it seems to me that this would be an absolutely civilizational step in building spatial governance in Poland, which is simply necessary, because in this respect there are remnants of different systems and this spatial order is what it is. I don't want to tell you what he's like anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u188	As a general rule The full agreement that the lack of spatial planning is one of the barriers, including development, especially in less urban areas. In turn, in these urbanised ones it is a different kind of obstacle and generates other kinds of problems, including those that end later in different proceedings. It's obviously a complicated problem, it doesn't just arise... It is not just a matter of establishing a law or a duty to do something, it is also a question of social problems, because it is also known that measures are behind it. And it's not just about the means to create spatial planning plans, it's also about the financial consequences for landowners of real estate, etc., because it's related to whether it could involve, for example. with more fees, taxes, etc. That's why there's so much trouble getting through this solution. The government is aware of this, and I think that the governments in general were aware of it. And the fact that it's difficult proves the fact that it hasn't been built to this day. However, I think that, regardless of this thread, a very important, important task is to gather information about infrastructure and real estate, finally ordering it, ending the existence of a system at which there was such a moment that 300 We had about 130 different systems for collecting real estate data, because there was no coordinated policy in this area. This law is also, in a sense, admitting that it worked in such a division. The Minister of Digitization was responsible for maintaining the geoportal, another minister supervised the Central Office of Geodesy and Cartography, the Central Office of Geodesy and Cartography was responsible for collecting parts of the data, the collection of parts of the data was also responsible for old times and finally another minister was responsible for spatial management and construction. Well, it's a reflection on the fact that we should sort it out and concentrate it in one place. And that's the point of the change.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u189	Thank you. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u190	Thank you. Minister, I will return to the question I had previously asked about the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council. This is supposed to be a small thing, but since it concerns personal matters, I would like to ask what the fate of this council and its members will be, because some of it comes from office to this council, and some of it is appointed by you. So when the authority goes to another minister, what will be the fate of the composition of the current council?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u191	I can tell you that one member of the council will change for sure, Minister... [[Minister of Digitization, but...]] Not even, because the minister isn't... the Council and its rules of operation are described in the bill. We do not change the law in this respect, we simply transfer the powers, supervision of this part of the administration. This task within the public administration, which so far was in the IT department, we move to the construction department And that's it. That's where we're changing the bill. The Spatial Information Infrastructure Council will continue to function and this change will only result in the supervision of the Minister responsible for Construction and not the Minister competent for Information Technology. Well, not really surveillance, the council will be an advisory body of the Minister responsible for construction. Marek Zagórski will no longer be a member of the board, I will simply not act as State Secretary in the Ministry of Information Technology. And this is probably the only major change that... [[And the people appointed by the Minister?]] The Council shall maintain continuity. However, of course, regardless of whether we amend this law or not, the minister responsible may change the composition of the Council. This mode still stays here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u192	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, do you want me to repeat this question that Senator Pekkis, as if he's redirected to you? [[If you could have the senator again...]] You're welcome. Minister, why do you, in the new law that you propose, take the competence of the main surveyor? As part of the reorganisation, you are handing over some of his tasks to the Minister. Is it because the minister decides where the areas under your housing program are to be armed? If that's the case, then I kind of understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u194	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u195	Mr. Senator, it's exactly the opposite. We're not taking responsibility for the country's main surveyor, we're just giving it away. The tasks associated with the geoportal have so far been divided between the main surveyor of the country and the Minister responsible for IT. At the moment, all tasks related to running, with maintenance, with the development of geoportal will be in one hand, i.e. the main surveyor of the country. [[I understand that this reorganisation is designed to improve...]] Yeah, it's supposed to improve. The IT system managed by the main surveyor of the country includes basic data, but also the information portal on which these data are presented. So data collected by the main surveyor of the country in different ways There's no point in talking about it right now. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. those data that are collected from old age and collected locally, such as data from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture concerning e.g. the inventory of parcels and all the property data that are collected, it's all together with this portal that's called geoportal. Geoportal is a mechanism, a platform for presenting and displaying these data, downloading these data by citizens. And all of this is maintained within one ICT infrastructure, which is located on the same servers, in the same location run by the main surveyor of the country. And if it's in one hand, it's definitely going to be better. [[If that's the intention, thank you, no questions asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u196	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u197	Thank you. Minister, I have a question that comes up at a meeting with the voters. Well, there is still a spectrum of cadastral tax, about which, from time to time, various such that, so to speak, sensational information circulates. Can the Minister say, with the authority of the government, that the current government is not working on any cadastral tax? Such information is disseminated or emerging in public space and raises legitimate concerns for citizens. So I have a question: can the Minister say that there is no such work and that this geoportal is absolutely not related to any studio work on this kind of project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u198	The question is a suggestion. You'd have to ask if they're being run.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u199	I don't see any of this kind of spectrum and it doesn't circulate, there's no such work. The fact that there's a record of land, buildings, all property data being collected... Combining this with other tasks, issues such as: Cadastral tax doesn't make any sense. The data is gathering, and this collection is primarily intended to be used for better management, so that the economy can grow. We must remember and note that there is no information available about real estate Not only the lack of spatial management plans but the lack of information at all It's a barrier. Quick access to this information improves economic circulation. Therefore, we have to do this because of it, not because we have some tax plans. I think if someone were going to introduce such a tax, they'd manage without a geoportal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u200	Thank you, Minister. Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u201	Thank you. Minister, we have a great, computerized land register in Poland. And such a digression about this cadastral tax. This is the most fair. The rich pay more, the poor pay less. Because it's a value tax... But it will be difficult to convince everyone in Poland that this is a fair tax and that in this direction You have to go. Minister, this is about two laws. This section is clear; I mean the second law, the infrastructure of spatial information. Art. 13 says that the country's main surveyor creates and maintains a geoportal of infrastructure, etc. Good. Now, Minister, I'm going to jump to the article. 19, which states that the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing shall carry out the tasks referred to in Article. 18, with the help of the main surveyor of the country. So we've been ceding everything, the geoportal and everything else, on the main surveyor of the country, the Minister of Construction. Well, that's nice, that's nice. But here we refer to art. 18, so we say that the Minister responsible for construction, etc. perform the tasks referred to in Article. 18, with the help of the main surveyor of the country. And now I'm jumping to art. 18, because I was curious. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 18 is one change... There are two paragraphs and one in the mouth. 2 is a change in the fact that the Minister of Information Technology, of course, is the Minister of Construction. This is one change. But what art says. In paragraph 18, paragraph 18 is replaced by the following: One? Creating, maintaining that was actually my question to the rapporteur. . and the development of infrastructure is coordinated by the Minister responsible for IT. Art. 18: The creation, maintenance and development of infrastructure is coordinated by the Minister responsible for IT. Is it simply a mistake that this has not been changed here, or is it really supposed to be that not all tasks go to the Minister of Construction and this coordination will then remain with the Minister of Information Technology? That, to be honest, I read it last night, and I didn't get a chance to ask that at the committee meeting, and I'm having second thoughts. You'd have to find it in the Art Act. 18. [[I'm gonna have to ask my co-workers for help if the marshal will allow it.]] [[Yes, you're welcome.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Because if that's the case, there's still room for improvement.]] [[I understand the senator is referring to the text of the main bill, right?]] Again. We're obviously in the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, right? I'm talking about this bill, the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. And art. 18. I will quote it again: the creation, maintenance and development of infrastructure is coordinated...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u202	I understand what you're asking, Senator, but I'm trying to find it. Unfortunately, we don't have it right now... Do we? Excuse me, I need to consult. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry it took so long, but I wanted to be sure. That's how we understand it. I am now looking at this amendment of the Law on Departments, in which we say that the Act of 4 March 2010 on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information is amended as follows... We continue to say that it is used in the article. 6 etc., etc. In this we refer to the article. In various cases, the words "the Minister responsible for IT' shall be replaced by the words "the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing' used where appropriate. So there's no mistake here. [[No, Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u203	Okay, thank you. [[Unfortunately, I have to...]] Okay, I get it. Minister... [[Well, unfortunately, Minister, I don't think he's here...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u204	Art. The 18th Act consists of 2 paragraphs: paragraph. 1 and paragraph 1. 2. The amendment changes the lips. 2, in which he introduces instead of the Minister responsible for computerisation of the Minister responsible for construction. Okay. But I'm reading my lips again. 1...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u205	Mr. Senator, I understand. I want to tell you again that in the article. Two laws, this bill, which is being submitted today, in the amendment of the first act is... It sounds as follows, I will read exactly: used in the article. 6, in Article 2, the following paragraph is added: In paragraph 13, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: 5, in Article 5, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 18 and the following articles, in various cases, the words "the Minister responsible for IT' shall be replaced by the words "the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning' used where appropriate. So if there are cancellations... if the senator refers to the old text and there is no change in it, then this change should be the accident of the amendment introduced in the article. 2 laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u206	Good. [[Please, Minister...]] You're the senator again, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u207	In any case, I think that this provision should be different, but the lawyers should say so. I accept your explanation that it can be interpreted as you have said, also in this way, but it could also be in the same way as me. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u208	Can be interpreted without changing the name. Okay... But the Minister thinks there's no problem here. Therefore, Mr. Senator, this must be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u209	I also want to say that the legislative offices of the Sejm and the Senate... [[...they didn't have...]] ...they didn't have any comments on this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u210	They had no comments on the legislative provisions. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[I'm the one signing up.]] Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law on the amendment of the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and the Law on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information, this amendment, actually concerns 2 laws. The amendment of the first law, the one on departments, is very simple and short. The infrastructure of spatial information has been added to the tasks of the Ministry of Construction and from the IT department this infrastructure of spatial information has been removed. It is therefore a very short amendment. And the case concerns, especially as regards the substance of the case, the second law, the Infrastructure of Spatial Information Act. I was trying to find out more or less why these changes, why, and I was looking for where the Minister of Construction, Planning and Spatial Planning and Housing and how the main surveyor of the country is involved. And I started to watch what it looked like so far. Until 8 December 2015, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development was present and in this Ministry of Infrastructure was building, planning and spatial planning and housing. Then, as a new government was established, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of PiS, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction was established with Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. And in this ministry there was also the construction department. The Minister had construction, communications and transport, such three departments in terms of administration. At that time there was also a noisy announcement of the program, "The Living +..." also Minister Adamczyk. It was supposed to be such a priority. Special measures were taken because on 20 July 2017 the National Property Resources Act was adopted, a state legal person was appointed: State real estate stock. I had the opportunity to criticize him here at that time very strongly that it is completely unnecessary that it is another administration that we have a record of the ground. I told you and what we're talking about right now is the country's main surveyor. And there was going to be a National Property Resource that was about to speed up all these activities. And now another shift, again. I'm looking. In the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, after the change of Prime Minister, only infrastructure remained and the Ministry of Investment and Development was established. I then asked a question at a committee meeting or in plenary, and I no longer remember where this department of spatial planning and construction is. First, a regulation appeared that he is with the Minister of Infrastructure, which means he is staying with Minister Adamczyk. From what I remember, it's been a dozen days, as I've been told... And indeed, I checked it out because it was from January 12 to January 23rd. On 23 January, however, it turned out that this had to be transferred to the Ministry of Investment and Development, to the Minister, in my opinion because of the fact that the National Property Resources and Housing +, as it turns out, will not move, unless this information is available, the particularly important information which is in the records of land and buildings, i.e. what leads the main surveyor of the country. So after a dozen days, it changed. And now, of course, there is another change, the transfer of this from the IT department to the construction department, which is what we are discussing again today. The consequence of this change is that it is not now a minister competent for computerization, but... Because it is written here that the geoportal creates and maintains the main surveyor of the country, so we returned somewhat to... It is supposed to be the construction department, but the main surveyor of the country will deal with it. So, ladies and gentlemen, why the change? Well, the Minister explained it a little bit here. It's just to get anything moving. As we said two and a half years ago or after the amendment of the National Property Resources Act, nothing moved. I once asked the Minister at the meeting and got an answer about the National Property Resources. This is the state of 19 February this year. The question was: how many contracts did the National Property Resources conclude with individual municipalities? And it turns out he didn't make any, that he only made three pre-emptive contracts. I have this handwriting, these municipalities are listed here. So the noisyly announced program, the apartment +, the noisyly announced KZN, the National Property Resources, turned out to be a bubble, of which we had no doubt. As we agreed, we said that this was absolutely unnecessary, and these tasks were extensive. What was the National Property Resources supposed to do? He was to buy land, to be transferred, as we remember, land of State Forests and other entities, e.g. PKP, they were all supposed to pass them on, and then he was supposed to have money from it, invest in it, arm these areas so that we could build these apartments, and so on. Yeah, we said it wasn't gonna work. Today we know that none of this worked out, and in that case another change is needed. Well, it was just a waste of time, but it's not our problem, it's the minister's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u212	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 792, and the committee report In print No 792 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u213	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to express my joy that I am the rapporteur for this submission. This is a report from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, published in print No 792 A, concerning Senate printing No 792. This report concerns the submission of the government which has been received by the Sejm. The Sejm adopted this law on 13 April 2018. On 13 April 2018, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 26 April 2018, the committees shall request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. As regards the substance of the changes that this amendment introduces, it is a number of legal acts, several laws. First of all, it is the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the Enforcement Act. There are other provisions whose implementation is a consequence of changes. As far as the Civil Code is concerned, the new regulations relate primarily to Article. 117 §2 of that code. The amendments concern the rules relating to the institution's limitation of claims against consumers. These regulations in the current legal state are contained in Article. 117 §2. We propose to add an article. 117 §21. This proposal follows that, in the current legal state, as regards the institution of limitation, it is that when the limitation period expires, the debtor, the person against whom the claim is entitled, may refrain from satisfying it, unless, as is currently the case in the Act, he or she waives the use of the limitation charge. Please note that this article is written using a difficult language: unless you waive the limitation charge. It is a peremptory charge, that is, the debtor's right not to have to pursue the claim. As far as limitation periods are concerned, I'm going to talk about them again, because we're shortening them, too. Periods of limitation, even after they've passed... Whether this is a general period of limitation, which is currently 10 years, we introduce 6 years The point is that even if it passes, and that could be, for example. 10 years or 2 years, this claim does not expire. The claim is still active, if you can say so. The debtor is still living with this claim. The proposal which we have received from the Sejm and with which we agree is that consumers should be excluded from this general principle, i.e. that at the time when the limitation period expires There is always a condition that consumers were not obliged to raise the limitation charge first. And then, in a way, from the vending machine, when the limitation period expires, the claim will expire. Because, as I said before, if they hadn't made such a plea, then, of course, this claim would still be valid, active. The Commission, of course, considered the arguments. We also read into the ratio legis of this bill, this submission. The definition of the consumer should certainly be reached here. This definition We are speaking the legislative language here, the legal language is in the article. 221 civil code. There is an indication that the consumer is a natural person in a specific relationship with the trader. This definition also shows that the possibility of redress is unequal and that there is always an entrepreneur in a better situation. It is an entity with a definition of more instruments, more possibilities for redress. As far as the consumer is concerned, which, as I just said, is a natural person, this problem is, of course, greater. And that's why this proposal to disable this group from the vending machine, you just don't have to demand to satisfy the claim, because it's kind of going to happen from the vending machine. Another change in this submission, which I have the honour to present, is the amendment of the article. 118. I've already mentioned it gently. And in this article. 118 reduce the limitation period for a claim from 10 years to 6 years in terms of the general term. This is explained by this, and the majority of the committee agreed, of course, that too long periods since the claim was made may, however, affect the fact that certain details, certain behaviours, certain evidence regarding the origin of this claim may simply disappear. In addition, it is also stressed that we, the legislators who are preparing legal standards, must also bear in mind that the law should contribute, that legal solutions should contribute to ensuring that the legal relations between the actors And we're talking about the legal relationship between the debtor and the creditor where the claim was made. It had certainty and some stability. This is also of course very important when it comes to social relations which are widely understood. This argument has been made. And by the way, Art. 118 I would like to point out that a provision has been introduced which states that the limitation period for periods of limitation longer than 2 years expires at the end of the calendar year. Of course, at the committee meeting, someone asked what would happen if this claim arose on 1 January. Well, it's kind of in favor of an investigation of this claim, almost a whole year yet, or respectively, if it's a shorter time... As far as the Civil Code is concerned, there is another amendment to the article. 125, but that is, as I recall, the consequence of these previous changes, which is the conversion of the limitation period from 10 to 6 years. And we have a very important article. 568 civil code, which speaks of the sale of movable goods used. This is also a very important fact on this occasion that, as regards this issue, we also have indications on EU law, and specifically on the Court's judgment on certain aspects of the sale of consumer goods, etc. In the light of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 13 July 2017 in this case, we have indications that this claim with the guarantees covered by the mobile sale of second-hand goods shall not be less than 2 years. That is why this proposed amendment, as far as the article is concerned. 568, we add the following statement in §1 first sentence. And in this first sentence of §1 is that we add another year to this year, i.e. that security with guarantees, i.e.. this claim resulting from the purchase of a movable thing used, can not expire earlier if there were any defects in this thing It's more than two years old. Further amendments already concern the next Code of Civil Procedure. And that's where these changes go, so that when... New regulations have been introduced in the Civil Procedure Code, which aim at the fact that the bailiff may notify the court electronically that the account, the debtor's account Of course, we're talking about the size of the claim. It may be blocked by electronic means. Only the problem is that, when the account is blocked, the bank, according to the current records, may, within 7 days, even write that immediately, i.e. immediately within 7 days, transfer these funds to the bailiff's account. However, as far as the bailiff is concerned, the bailiff is already required to transfer these funds to the creditor's account within 4 days. And the problem is, this is all happening electronically. We're talking four days here, we're talking about a seven-day deadline... but the debtor is notified by a postal operator, a traditional post office. And in the explanatory memorandum it is pointed out that it can very often be so that the debtor learns about everything after he has taken over his account. And the problem is, he can't use his defenses. Well, there's a list of defenses like a complaint against a bailiff's actions or a lawsuit against an enforcement title. And, of course, all the legal means, the means of defence that a debtor could have, are not used at such a time. It follows from this proposal that the change, according to which, not within 7 days, only after 7 days, the bank may carry out this action. As for the other records, the other... Well, the article on enforcement proceedings is also a consequence of the fact that after seven days... we extend this term. Art. 4, Act on the availability of economic information and the exchange of economic data... There's also a record here that... it's been 10 years, now, when it comes to sharing information, this information is deleted within a shorter period of time. The articles on... well, as far as the other articles are concerned, this is the consequence of the changes that I have tabled here, and at the committee's meeting we have not actually discussed this. So that I ask you very much to accept the proposals for these amendments and to adopt this law, as it is contained in Senate printing No 792. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u214	Thank you. At present, the senators may ask the Senator rapporteur questions. And I have a question right away. Mr. Senator, are these changes related to maintenance debt?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u215	No, because, uh, I can get you a marshal right away. That's weird. I was open on this site. Art. 8892 reads: The bank shall transfer the cash from the account seized to the bank account of the bailiff immediately after the expiry of seven days from the date of delivery of the notice of occupation. However, in the event of current executions, maintenance or rents, the bank shall immediately transfer the cash from the seized account to the bank account of the bailiff. So it's not about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u216	Thank you. There you go. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. I'll be honest with you, I got it by e-mail. This is the issue: it is said that there is no 7-day time for this money to be in the account in the case of current pensions. This is the case: current pensions. I was approached by a citizen who would like to make an amendment, and it seems logical enough that this also applies to outstanding pensions, because the bailiff is carrying out executions of late and not current pensions. Why aren't the applicants of this bill or its authors written there about outstanding pensions, just current pensions? Would you mind explaining that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u219	This is a code of civil procedure... Yes? [[Civil. If...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u220	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u221	If that makes it difficult for you, I'm just going to ask a government representative about it, quoting that email I got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u222	It's probably for the best. I don't want to generalize the answers here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u223	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piebiak like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I will answer your questions.]] You're welcome, if you don't mind. You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u224	Thank you very much. I will repeat that question I asked you to the Senator of the rapporteur. This project provides for a rapid transfer of current maintenance and pensions by the bank, without this seven-day period in the bank account. But he doesn't say anything about late-term pensions. For me, when I got this e-mail from a citizen, it was quite surprising that it was written about current pensions, where perhaps there is no need for execution, because there is some slight delay, and there is no exchange of outstanding pensions, which can actually be subject to such execution. Why didn't you state that the outstanding pensions were also exempt from this seven-day period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u225	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The use of the wording, which shows that it is a current maintenance or pension, is entirely intended by the designer, that is, the Ministry of Justice, in a government project, and this is because it is a derogation from the rule. The principle is that there must be a time, a minimum of this week, to be able to block the execution if there are reasonable grounds, by bringing an action against enforcement, to lodge an application for a security in the form of a suspension of execution. And it's a minimum week. In the case of pensions and alimony, but current, we depart from this principle because we believe that there are social considerations that make it necessary for this money to immediately be found with the creditor, who is entitled to maintenance, who is entitled to current pensions. But this is an exception to the rule. Why? Well, that's because it's a means of keeping things going. Something you have to live with, entitled to alimony for that they have this maintenance right that... it's just money for life. It's the same with current pensions. But a completely different situation is when we have, as a rule, cumulative multi-month or multi-annual maintenance or pension claims. This is not the means for the present existence, and therefore there is no need to depart from this principle, which allows the debtor to defend himself, because sometimes the allegations are indeed justified. Thus, the project uses, intentionally, the terms "current" in order to safeguard the living needs of those who are indicated here, i.e. entitled to alimony and pension. Thank you. [[I'm just gonna...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u227	There you go. Mr. Senator again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u228	I just want to clarify, not ask a question, just ask if I understand it correctly. I understand that you believe that current pension and alimony are the means of life, so that the person in question can simply survive and the funds outstanding If this person is still functioning, they may be subject to this 7-day procedure of staying on the account. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u229	That's right, Mr. Senator. [[Good. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u230	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] There are no more questions for you. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will take the floor on a fragmented matter, but noting that this law is necessary, necessary, will actually protect a weaker person from all kinds of conquests, also from debt collection companies, which, although on the basis of a legitimate duty, in my opinion constantly exceed the principles of social relations, attacking consumers by day, night, various techniques, after many years. It seems to me that in this law, which generally reduces the limitation period for claims from 10 to 6 years, in one case this time should be extended, namely in respect of maintenance benefits and claims. This is due to the fact that today it is a serious social ailment, I would say that increasing as civil liberties and freedoms grow. The three-year limitation period for these claims has so far been adopted. It is enough to work this time away from Poland, even in many countries of the European Union, so that these claims are subject to statute of limitations. It's not hard. In addition, the courts, at the time of the application, generally by the mothers, demand that the address of the obliged person be established. Well, a person who's busy raising a child doesn't have the mobility to go to England to look for an obliged person in this liberal market. There are also no relevant agreements between the parties in this regard, although it is the recognition of titles, but only judicial and enforcement titles no longer. Therefore, this phenomenon generates huge debts. In fact, this is the country's specific agreement that the weaker person in this case should lose his entitlement after 3 years on a general basis. The important thing is that this case also concerns a creditor such as, in a sense, the Treasury, or the Alimentary Fund. Because it is the Asylum Fund that records the amount of maintenance debtors it replaces as a father, in a limited form, of course. For about PLN 10 billion. Therefore, there cannot be a time tolerance for the limitation of these claims. I allow myself to make an amendment in order to increase this period to the standard, from 3 to 6 years, after which both maintenance claims and maintenance claims would be statute-barred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u232	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jan Rulewski. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs. The text of the act is contained in print No 793, and the report of the committee In print No 793 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics, contained in print No 793. The proposed amendment is the implementation of the obligation to adapt the system of right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The main objective is to protect more effectively the rights of creditors who have obtained the protection of their monetary claims in the form of the establishment of a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's assets, the prohibition on the disposal or debiting of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage and the prohibition on the disposal of cooperative property rights to the premises. The proposed amendment aims to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016 declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of the Article. 7541 §1 of the Law of 17 November 1964 This article is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, with the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general According to Art. 7541 §1 of the Civil Procedure Code granted to the creditor the protection of monetary claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal or debiting of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal of cooperative ownership property rights to the premises fall after 2 months after the judgment taking into account the claim which was secured or the decision to reject an appeal or other appeal brought by the person liable to take account of the claim which was secured has been enforced. The expiry date, i.e. Two months, he was not dependent on the creditor's execution. Despite the creditor's enforcement actions, e.g. the submission of an application for execution, the time limit has not been interrupted. This led to a situation where enforcement of the sum due in the case of execution carried out exclusively from the property was, in practice, impossible due to a lengthy and complex procedure. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 25 October 2016 that this provision is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, since it de facto leads to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by means of a security which is immediately ineffective. This law, first of all, makes it possible for the creditor to maintain the protection of monetary claims to a certain extent subject to a request for further enforcement; secondly, it grants the possibility to submit a request for the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage which secures the claim already established by the implementing title; thirdly, it applies the proposed arrangements to the securities which were established before the entry into force of the law but have not yet collapsed. To that end, the law amends Article. 7541 §1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, adds to the Act on perpetual books and mortgage art. 1112 and Okay, let me get this straight. It amends the article. 154 Act on enforcement proceedings in the administration, adding a new §8 to it. In accordance with the transitional Article. 4 Laws on safeguards granted in civil proceedings or administrative enforcement proceedings will apply in the new wording, unless those safeguards have fallen. And the last point is the entry into force of the bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of the project is proposed standard vacathio legis, 14 days from the date of publication of the law, because there is an urgent need to adapt the system of the right to a decision issued by the Constitutional Tribunal. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal postponed the expiry date of the standard in force from Article. 7541 §1 c.p.c. 18 months, i.e. until 30 June 2018 The bill was presented by the Senate, it is a Senate project. Let me remind you that this project was unanimously adopted by 82 votes in favour, in November 2017 the Sejm adopted it on 13 April 2018: 416 was for, 1 was against, i.e., practically, also unanimously... No comments were received at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. As a result of the vote, 9 votes in favour, also unanimously The committee recommends that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u234	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any calls like that. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Piebiak. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm asking the High House for a party.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. There are no questions for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[Voice from the room: It's for the record.]] Oh, it's for protocol, okay. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has presented his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Penal Code and the Law on Prison Service. The text of the Act is contained in print No 788 and the report of the Commission In print No 788 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement and the Law on Prison Service constitutes Seym Printing No 2290 and 2346 and Senate Printing No 788 and No 788 A. It was a government bill. The Sejm adopted the Act at its 60th first meeting on 12 April 2018. On 13 April, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The joint meeting of the committee was held on 26 April 2018. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. The bill submitted to the Senate aims to introduce a number of amendments, the most important of which is to legally empower the Minister of Justice to entrust to its subordinates or supervised entities, in particular the uniform formation of the Prison Service, the tasks of the supervising entity in the electronic surveillance system. Currently, with regard to the electronic surveillance system, the Prison Service is only carrying out the statutory task, indicated by the Minister of Justice, of operating a monitoring centre. The law will extend the powers of the Prison Service to the right to carry out other tasks to which the supervising entity is authorised, as defined in the Penal Code implementing Article. 43t. According to the current wording of the article. 43g paragraph. 3 The supervising entity may be an economic operator, a State institution or an economic operator of a foreign entity identified in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act of 29 January 2004 (Public Procurement Law). The new statutory regulation assumes that the tasks previously performed by a commercial entity by the Prison Service will be taken over in a non-traded mode. Prison Service will be able to carry out the tasks of the supervising entity consisting, inter alia. for the execution by officials and staff of the Prison Service of 24-hour intervention patrols throughout the country and the security of means of transport, communication and data transfer. For this reason, the law amends the Article accordingly. 2 of the Prison Service Act laying down a catalogue of basic tasks of the Prison Service by adding in paragraph 2. 2 of the new point 9 and repealing the existing paragraph. 2a. The Act further amends the article. 43 of the implementing criminal code and introduces an obligation for a convicted portable recorder to carry on its own, which aims to improve the functioning of mobile and proximity surveillance systems. Currently, the convicted person is equipped only with a GPS tracker that does not allow a telephone contact between him and the surveillance entity. The equipment of the portable recorder will enable such contact, and will allow for the real-time location to be checked even if the power source in the basic device, which is a GPS transmitter, is exhausted, which requires charging for at least 4 and 5 hours a day. Further amendments, Art. 43n and Art. 43t of the implementing criminal code is dictated by the need to introduce an appropriate obligation against the convicted For receiving calls, following instructions and giving explanations to authorised persons, including using a mobile device. As I said at the outset, the committees are asking for a law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u236	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal, the minority proposal, is very brief, concerns the last article of this law and aims to postpone the implementation of the provisions of this law from this year, or at least it seems so, because it is said here one month after the publication of the act in the monitor, to January 2020. But the motivation for this proposal is much broader. This novel was created as a result of astonishment To say no: surprises of the drafter of this law, namely the government, specifically the Ministry of Justice. The surprise is that the system, which has been used in our reality for many years, for nine years, and in which the current authorities of the Ministry of Justice have great hopes of regulating small criminals in the form of electronic surveillance, as it turns out, has suddenly collapsed. That's easy to read from this bill. Well, that's what happened so far. This supervision is carried out by a private operator, which, so to speak, is more than a good bargaining position, with the utmost regard for the authorities present here, including. Minister of Justice and Central Prison Administration. All senators And I think that Members were also fed by the promise of the development of this system, and that was indeed the case, especially after last year's amendment of this law, which spread the system. Moreover, the plans of the Ministry show that this system, which today includes 5 000 persons under supervision, is to be soon increased to 11 000, and that from the assumptions I have heard from Minister Jaki, it is said that it is to be increased by further sentenced to 31 000. I am particularly pleased that this system would also include prisoners who, for incomprehensible reasons, even with the active attitude of Minister Jaki and Minister Ziobra, do not serve prison sentences. It was common in this House that courts do not convict, avoid conviction, use the method of obstruction. We know that up to now, despite relatively good standards in prisons and empty cells, about 30,000 prisoners are not being punished in a system of imprisonment or restriction of liberty. And this Minister's initiative, which aims to ensure that those who fail to report to prison Well, that's the way it sounds, they could have been punished in the prison surveillance system, and I was very pleased. However, when these ambitious plans are announced, there is a fundamental change in the system of exercising this oversight. Namely, it speaks as an agreement to the current system operator, which General Naszyowski presented correctly and logically as the state-of-the-art system of penalties, which was also used in many countries. We're not his explorer. And with many advantages, at least 2 of which I will mention. The first is low costs. It's extremely important. Which make this system in Poland cost 10 times less than the closed prison system. Instead of 3,000, that's the average cost of being punished in a closed system. We pay 300 PLN in the electronic surveillance system. And the second, extremely important to all of us, is the fact that this is happening in the atmosphere, I would say, a certain trust. The most important thing to me is that here comes the kind of deal, if that's the way it is, between a convicted man. It's a man, isn't it? And the state that sentenced him in the form of a sentence, no more than one year in prison, the penalty of the restriction of liberty. The implementation of this specific agreement under conditions, let us be frank, of open social mobility, which consists of participation in religious celebrations, professional work or educational duties, well, requires some gentleness. Meanwhile, we are already moving on to this law, the fundamental change is being made, that these operators will be internal service officers. I mean. They're gonna... Because I don't know exactly... That's why it's a minority motion. Because at the committee meeting, the Ministry of Justice spoke openly and bluntly: yes, we, the officers, are taking over. It is slightly different in the Act: that it is only the possibility that it is still possible for other institutions, even foreign ones, to carry out this supervision. Yeah, but the lips are probably more reliable than the bill. Hence the concern of the authors of the minority proposal. Well, the derivative of this... I'm not part of the system, but it's easy to find out to a person who has a technical experience that such a transition requires at least a change of organization in the ministry itself, a creation like not a cell, even an electronic surveillance department. Therefore, since it is assumed that the Minister can decide who will be the operator, the Minister must also ensure that he has this system in his warehouse or that it is available. I'm thinking of shopping at the producers'. And that, of course, means investment expenditure. And this, of course, interferes with the fact that it is possible to introduce this system almost immediately. Plus, it's a cost thing. During the committee's work, the senators asked how the costs would be shaped. And then there was this correct statement: on a similar level. Well, ministers, excuse me, every uniform service is and must be expensive, because this is service, unlike the market rules for functions, where competition rules apply, to use different forms of employment relationships. Although I don't recommend these non-codex deals... junk to simplify the issue. Moreover, the labour market has more opportunities than the market If there was one, there wouldn't be one. The services for which employment should be undertaken, and actually the service... Here we are talking about people who are physically, intellectually, highly qualified, uniformed, with very high pension privileges. And this bill isn't true, Minister. So please convince the High House how much the officer's daily pay is, and how much is the employee's day's day's pay for the company's employee, Impel, it seems. It is the function that we are talking about today. So these few arguments I've made... And maybe the last one: at the committee meeting it turned out that the Anglo-Saxon companies of the Columbus method But also Switzerland and other countries of the European Union are defending, using and disseminating this attitude. Meanwhile, Poland is moving away from something that has not so far caused much turmoil and abuse. There were, of course, arguments that it was easier for an officer to intervene in an apartment, not to create conflicts, but to be more serious. But that's not an argument. There were even worse arguments, science fiction in the market economy, that such a company could collapse and, as a rule, the electronic surveillance system would fall apart, and that the prisoners would now be passwording Poland and committing further crimes. Well, if we accept it, we deny it at all, which unfortunately has already happened today, the principles of the market economy. The answer is simple: if the company falls, the next one will take the action. But if you use the logic of absurdity, then I, Minister, ask you, what happens when private power plants turn off electricity? Then, let's face it, every country will stand, including this electronic surveillance system and this system, in which cell phone equipment is to be provided. If there's no electricity, there won't be a state, there won't even be civilization. So such a policy of absurdity... appealing to absurdity cannot withstand technical criticism and market criticism. So it is precisely for these reasons that this is a surprising decision for us, not sufficiently passed on, not economically justified, which is a turning point towards building a specific state empire, this time in the field of prison, that we believe that the request of minorities needs to be dealt with by the High House. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u238	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mammoths. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u239	Of course, the question to the rapporteur of the minority. [[I'm on my way.]] Mr. Senator, you've been speaking for so long, you've spoken for so long, but I understand you're not filing a motion to reject the bill? Well, that's all you said would indicate that this bill was useless, and you didn't file a motion to reject the bill. I'm not sure I understand your whole point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u240	I'm positive. I believe that state solutions, Mr Senator, Mr President, are not a bad thing, they are not inherently bad solutions. It's just that it's a matter for the authorities to decide. Power, as I see it, has great opportunities to ensure, as it guaranteed, the integrity of the system, the correctness of the system and the proper costs. But I can't agree, and that's why there's this minority proposal that it's gonna be sudden. I'm not saying if it's credible anymore. But in the vote, Mr President, I will show my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u241	Are there any further questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Michał Wójcik, wish to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u242	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if there will be questions about this law, these new regulations. However, I am, I am not hiding, very surprised by this discussion, which actually started at a joint meeting of the Senate committees, where I answered the various questions in detail. As a general rule, it is a question of changing the approach to who is to supervise, who is to deal with the issue of electronic supervision, not the issue of monitoring, but electronic supervision: is it a private company or is it a mixed system? I have given examples of countries in Europe and beyond where a mixed system operates, i.e. one where the surveillance of this system, i.e. the execution of patrols in the field, is partly carried out by public authorities, and in part by private companies. There are countries in which only a public body is responsible Of course, I can give examples here. . and there are countries in which only a private entity is responsible. And here is the issue of introducing a provision that says that the Minister of Justice has the right to decide whether or not this system This is not about monitoring stations, but about a certain area, so to speak, the executive, such as the criminal, executive, will supervise, supervise a public-law entity, or a private institution, as it is today. Because today a private company is really doing this surveillance, which means there are inspectors in the field who carry out specific tasks. Well, that's what happened so far. But it is not that the Minister of Justice will decide that the entity under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and supervised by him, in this case the Prison Service. Of course, the Minister of Justice may make such a decision, but he may as well decide that it will be done by a private entity. And this provision is designed to give the Minister of Justice a gate so that he can make a decision according to the situation. We don't see anything in it that could be problematic. Of course, it's being handled by a private entity today. I want to go back to the argument I made to the senators at the joint committee meeting. And the senator was just referring to these statements. When I said that there was always a possibility that the subject who does these kinds of tasks would fall. Like I said, the state can't, but a private entity can. And that's why, for safety reasons, we don't see anything problematic about this kind of job being done by the prison service. Why? Except for the argument that it's safer... That is why, Mr Senator, the rapporteur, if a private person falls, someone will still have to take care of the people who use electronic supervision, someone will have to do so. And I want to tell you that there are dozens of people like that. According to my knowledge, more than 40 are convicted, who in the past have been very dangerous criminals. These are people who are actually in this system, but who have been convicted, for example. for the death penalty later converted into 25 years of imprisonment. And in a situation where this punishment ended... Well, it's known that in some cases, the fact that these people are at large maybe I'm not saying that they have to threaten the safety of other people. So that they are also in this system, and remember that. Then we must take care of our citizens, and we cannot afford to... Well, here's the missing example about the power plant. In my opinion, it is missed because here is a completely different situation. We can't afford to have these people out of the system. Those people must be in the system. I repeat, they must be in the system. These are, among other things. those persons who, for example, they weren't placed in Gostynin because there were no conditions for that. Thus, it is not only those who have been punished for 1 year of imprisonment and for whom we are simply applying this system, but also those dozens of people who have committed very serious crimes. And in a situation where, let's say, an entity overseeing this kind of system... Well, then what? Should we wait for the tender to be settled? Wait months, a year, two years? Well, that's impossible. And you won't fall. And that is why this entity is indicated here, which is supervised by the Minister of Justice, which is the Prison Service, which is also consistent with a certain logic, because it not only deals with monitoring but also with the system itself, which means it will carry out such tasks. And that's the first thing. Of course, we can discuss whether this is good or not. We recognise, as representatives of the Ministry of Justice, that from the point of view of the security of citizens and the security of the state it is simply better. Please also bear in mind that this system was created under certain conditions. Because there was a similar charge in 2009 and there was a project, so to speak, pilot, but this system collapsed at some point. And you have to remember that, too. 'Cause somebody came up with the idea that you have to apply the sanctions to limit your freedom... And the system almost completely collapsed. And this system was rebuilt thanks to the government of a good change, ladies and gentlemen. In 2016, it was decided that the sentence of imprisonment for 1 year could be executed in the conditions of freedom, using electronic surveillance, of course, under all conditions. And that's one thing. The second issue is the issue of improving the regulation of mobile surveillance, namely changes in the operation of these devices. It's, in short, the equipment of a convicted man in a mobile door into a portable recorder. I have already said that it is a matter of simply using a mobile phone and it is a matter of direct contact with the monitoring center. Where, as I learned during the joint committee meeting, you had the opportunity as senators also to be; I also was there and I was, I am not hiding, very impressed with all of this. So that, in my opinion, these rules are consistent, it's all logical. We may disagree with our argument, but I don't share that argument either. I say this with all due respect to the Senator of the rapporteur. It's the one that's been presented here. And one more thing: companies. It's not like we're pushing companies and suddenly we're taking over as a country. No, not at all. After all, these devices will be produced by companies, after all, IT systems will be used by companies. And it's not like that... This is only about this one element, which is that someone who will be in control in the field and will carry out patrols, Ladies and Gentlemen... This will actually be done by the state and not by a private company. The justification is also that simply the Prison Service officer has, ladies and gentlemen, a completely different scope of authority and can use completely different means than a private company inspector. I think everyone knows that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u243	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to take such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski, Mr. Senator Zientarski In that order. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u244	I don't know if you're lost in the debate, but you didn't answer the questions that were asked at the committee meeting and here. It's a cost comparison. Because it's impossible to hide, Minister, that when something like this was introduced in the West, it's not because they like private companies, but because they don't like you, it's just that it's probably the cost that decided there. That's one thing. And you didn't answer the question of comparison... There was no precise answer, what is the cost of an officer's day's pay and how much does a company person's day's pay cost. And the second question. Do you think you can... I ask because this is also the subject of a minority proposal, which is why it is a very substantive question. Are you able to do so one month after the publication of the Act because I think that is the rule that the Act enters into force on the first day of the month following the month of publication Also in the cases you were talking about, i.e. extremes, i.e. refusal, bankruptcy, implementation of this system, transition from a system based on a private operator to a system with a service operator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u245	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u246	As far as costs are concerned, these costs... Here I will repeat what I said, Mr. Senator, at the joint committee meeting. I would like to say very clearly that these costs will not be higher than those which are now. Today, this is about PLN 18 million per year, and we have anticipated a financial impact on increasing the 2018 staff limit of PLN 8 million 600 000. As regards 2019, the financial effect resulting from the annual increase in posts 125 civil servants, 125 civil servants This is PLN 16 million, 570 thousand gross. As far as 2020 is concerned, this is about 17 million.17 million 127 thousand. So the costs are comparable. Just remember one thing: the officer's authority is different from the field inspector. If a man who committed a very serious crime As I said, we have about 40 such people in the system, e.g. He's gonna rip that blindfold off and start running, so what's the field inspector supposed to do? Well, what's the inspector doing? He shoots him? What do you want him to do? He doesn't have any resources, he's calling the police. Well, you have to be aware of that. After all, a prison officer has a completely different catalog of means, and we know that very well. It's also a matter of security. There were situations where this was the case. It works completely differently, a private company cooperates with the police, a completely different uniform service, after all everyone knows it. So, from a security point of view, it's better if this is done by a Prison Service officer, I have no doubt about it. And as for the second question, I didn't really understand the question of whether we're capable of a system... [[Immediately pass in case of bankruptcy of this company. Because you have a dispute with this company, unfortunately you have a dispute with this company and supervision...]] Yeah, yeah... [[Yeah, and if this company loses, it's gonna fall. And are you able to switch to the service system within a month?]] I don't want to say anything about court matters at all, but I see that the senator has knowledge of this... I don't want to speak because it's completely unnecessary, and I'm not referring to a particular company, but I, as Vice Minister of Justice, am interested in the whole system as such. But what I want to say is that the agreement with this company, which is doing these tasks today, will end in September, as if 30 September 2018. It's all liquid. So that there will be no such thing that suddenly some drastic situation and this... here will be no problem, we were preparing for this, Mr. Senator, but thank you for this attention... It's not like these people are gonna be left unattended, they're gonna be monitored. Here's one more thing I want to say: the effectiveness of this system is great. Because we should probably talk about something else. I think we've gone in the wrong direction, because the discussion whether you're supposed to oversee it or if a private company... Maybe we should talk about something else. How to expand this system because it's a key issue for me. And this is the kind of analytical work we do in the Ministry of Justice, for example. do not apply this system to those who have been subject to a higher level of punishment, e.g. Up to a year and a half. Well, I don't want to talk about it right now, but that's the analytical work we're doing. And that's an important direction, because it's not... Because here a few elements are very important. On the one hand, we actually have a question of being in a convicted person's prison, which is at the moment a monthly cost of approx. PLN 3 000 300, and a tenfold lower cost for the use of electronic bands. Electronic band, ladies and gentlemen. So it's economically good. But it's also good from a different point of view, maybe more important. This person, for example. the unsanctioned person who is convicted, the person who commits a non-alimentation crime while in this system can work off his debt, we do not pay as taxpayers, we give her a chance. At the same time, this man won't get away with it, and he won't say there was no job, there was no... We know exactly where he is, we have him in the system, so it's very good in my opinion. I thought this discussion would rather go in this direction to talk about how this system would develop... [[But it's not an object...]] Well, it's not, but there's an opportunity to talk, and we're discussing whether a private company is supposed to take care of you or not. It seems to me that... of course, I am open and answer questions as an obedient servant of society, I try to answer every question. But I'm a little surprised at this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u247	You're asking Senator Zientarski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u248	Minister, maybe you'll still be amazed, because none of us are. I'm talking about supporting the minority's request. It does not question the form of punishment, the execution of penalties in the form of electronic supervision. If you remember the story, this oversight was created by the responsible, as I recall, Mrs. Beata Kempa. This is the first time she has presented these projects here in this House. General Nasikowski has been dealing with this problem from the very beginning as a specialist. And, of course, we've only made such comments. At least that's what I've been reporting. In the beginning, this surveillance or surveillance population would be too small, which turned out to be true, because in this first shot it was fiction. But no one when you were making I'm talking about formation. This form... And it was all this time, so to speak, in one hand, the hands of a specialist, because General Naszykowski here I consider him a specialist in this field to be no doubt to me. So the watchman wasn't a national at the time. And what happened? That's all we're looking for. If, as you say, it is so obvious that the supervising entity is to be state-owned, then why was this obvious obviousness not seen when creating this, shaping, expanding? You say there'll be another extension... That's a very good direction, of course. Let me just add in the question that, as far as enlargement is concerned, there is an issue, for example. Cuts, we all know that no one will run after such a man, shoot, simply exposes himself to the fact that this measure will not be applied to him, such a man will be caught and will execute the sentence of imprisonment. He's not some dangerous thug, I'm sorry, 'cause there's no way they're gonna walk free... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: 41 people...]] ...with this kind of supervision. You could possibly take them under some kind of special surveillance. In short... Senator Rulewski asked this at the committee meeting, I asked, but we did not know why, then, this system, which was created and which was as obvious as you say... Well, the surveillance entity was private or commercial. And one last question, supplemental to that. Were there any serious, substantive objections to the commercial entity during the last period that would have caused this change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u249	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u250	Since the start of this system, the functioning of this system has changed eight times in criminal law in this respect. There were stories, there was even, as I said, a dramatic situation. In fact, when this system started functioning, it couldn't have been, as it seems... I also understood what General Naszyowski said. During the committee meeting he probably said several times that it could not be created by the state's forces at first, rather a private company could do so. And that's the truth. But it came to... As the Senator rapporteur said, there is a dispute. Well, there's nothing to hide. It cannot be ruled out that, in future years, if private companies were indeed involved in the supervision of this system, such disputes would not exist. The consequences of these disputes could be very different. Remember, there's a deal between us. That also means that we can't quite develop this system. And if, for example, But there is a need to develop the system, so what do we do? The company... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course you can. You're a lawyer, you're a patron. Yeah, I know that, but it's not that easy. And you know very well that it will be much simpler, however, if the supervision of this system is carried out by a public body of a public nature. But I answered the senator's question. Let me say again: we believe that, from the point of view of the security of citizens, from the point of view of the security of the state, taking into account the experience, also from recent years, including, for example, the issue of this dispute that Senator Rulewski referred to, for the state, a better system for citizens is a system of public oversight, carried out by a public-law entity, a body supervised by the Minister of Justice. It's safer. Not only is it the monitoring unit itself, but it's also surveillance in the field... It is not more expensive, but it is safer, it is more effective, and the system can be expanded. I think I'm trying to answer this question fully, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u251	You're asking Senator Mammets a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The subject of why there's a change is still under investigation. And I think... I would like you to answer, Minister, if this is not a form of state security just in case there is such a situation that the entity has gone bankrupt. Then the men of the opposition would have run us over, that we didn't secure it. [[That's it.]] And I'd like you gentlemen not to ask such questions, because it's obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u253	Question and answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u254	Well, actually, the senator answered it himself, that's true. I was talking about it exactly at the committee meeting. What if... It's not like there's only people sentenced to one year of imprisonment in the system. I say again: these are also those who were once sentenced to the death penalty, only they were replaced with this punishment. They're in the system. Yes? If something were to happen, God forbid, who would be responsible? Well, none of your senators. The Minister of Justice is responsible for this. Right? It was the Minister of Justice who decided... So let us also decide how to safeguard the interests of the whole state and, above all, how to protect citizens from such situations. Thank you so much for that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u255	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u256	I'm still calling for some moderation in fear, in finding obstacles. Here's my question. Does that mean anything to you, Minister: a company that currently oversees hundreds of thousands of taxi drivers around the world, provides services, provides food and other foods and is called I'm not a supporter or even a client of the Uber? I suspect if you turned to them, they'd be overseeing it. That's one thing. And the other. Don't you think you're misleading when you say an officer can do more? In fact, an officer in a cell maybe more and he needs more. But there's just a simple question... Don't you think? If anyone breaks the collar, they're away from the place where they're staying, it's the probationary penitentiary, and you know this one exists in the dormitory. The head office shall report it immediately and be deprived of the person concerned, the convict interested in carrying out this kind of punishment... He's changing this drug immediately to prison. Isn't that the most important thing, the feedback that orders the criminal to defend his freedom... Because the collar is freedom...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u257	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u258	That's to defend the freedom of a criminal? I don't know if I got it right. [[No, for a criminal, turning a cell on watch is the choice between closing...]] Right. [[...only a restriction of freedom. He'll defend it himself.]] That kind of escape is at risk at all... cutting the wristband is punishable by imprisonment until the age of 2. [[Oh, plus.]] We know what he's like... [[Self-release, this quasi-release...]] Right. We know what the case law is in this regard, that is obvious. Can an officer do more? Well, maybe, but not in the sense that he's allowed more. He just has a bigger arsenal of possibilities, a bigger instrumentarium he's entitled to. [[But why?]] Because he's an officer. [[But why should he have more opportunities when it comes to surveillance?]] Because... [[You want him to shoot?]] Once again, I'm telling the senator that different people are in this system. It also includes people who have committed very serious crimes. [[Then we'll have to turn them off.]] And that's one thing. Case number two, Uber. I will not address the issue of any company that provides specific transport services. We're talking about something completely different here. Well, we're talking about the question of the people who committed the crimes that are in this system that we're giving the chance to carry out these penalties under the conditions of freedom. This is, in my opinion, a completely different situation. Well, you can't compare these two situations. I would like to give you examples of those countries where state services decide on this type of supervision. Well, is Austria a country that doesn't respect the rules that the senator was talking about? I don't think so. No, Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway outside the European Union, Portugal... I'm sorry, I'm saying again that this is a discussion on the basis that it's either private or public or private. Well, I've answered that question so many times. The Minister of Justice will not take responsibility if something happens to the system, and then you will call us here. Sorry, some of you will call us. And you'll be waiting, demanding our explanations. We simply accept this because we believe that, from the point of view of the interests of citizens, as well as the security of the state in various areas, this is the way it should be. That's what we think, and I'm saying it for the tenth time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u259	Now you're asking Senator Zientarski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u260	Minister, two questions. First: do you think the Prison Service is professionally prepared for this, except, of course, the increase in the number of posts you spoke of and the allocation of additional resources? That's the first question. And second: why do I say so trivially? You're threatening this bankruptcy by saying that in the event of bankruptcy, there's going to be misfortune? After all, we all know that bankruptcy is ruled by the court. Then comes the syndicate, and the company operates under the supervision of the syndicate, which is supervised by the court, and very often there is no difference, and even the company works better. There are also restructurings, we know that. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Depends on what bankruptcy is.]] [[You weren't supposed to...]] Well, depending on what it is. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Exactly.]] Whatever it is. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: What if it's liquidation?]] Okay. [[Minister...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Sorry.]] ...but then you can terminate the contract and so on. It doesn't happen that suddenly, day by day, the whole program collapses. Well, it's not.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u261	Mr. Senator's done, right? [[Yes.]] Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Prison Service officers are prepared to carry out these tasks. They were trained and I am convinced that after 30 September the system will function well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u263	Are there any more questions? None of your senators report. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would also like to inform your senators that item 10 of the agenda will be considered tomorrow after the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 786 and the report of the committee In print No 786 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House the report of the committee which I have the honour to direct, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, which proposes, recommends that the Senate adopt this law without amendments after considering the Law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 12 April 2018. I would like to remind you that the law passed by the Sejm at the first 60th meeting came from our, i.e. the Senate, the presentation. The project was aimed at first reading in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Members accepted this submission and, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in the vote 412 Members voted in favour, 1 against, 2 abstentions. So that there is total support for this senate proposal. This is a proposal implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 October 2016, which stated that the Article was incompatible. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (4) and paragraph 1. 1c of the Act of 5 January 2011 on the Drivers of Vehicles in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 1a of the law on road traffic with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Court held that Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (4) and paragraph 1. 1c of the Act already cited, the Act on the Drivers of Vehicles, and already given the provisions of the Law on Road Traffic... The Court considers that, in so far as they do not provide for a situation justifying, by reason of a higher necessity, the driving of vehicles at a speed exceeding the permissible speed by more than 50 km in a built-up area is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the Court, the requirement to provide citizens with a fair administrative procedure, based on Article. 2 of the Constitution, obliges the legislator to organise such a procedure so that within it the administrative authority can explain the facts and deal with the matter carefully, taking into account, including, where necessary, the balance of conflicting goods, values and interests. Good is security. in road traffic, it is a traffic regulation, but another good is a state of higher necessity, e.g. exceeding this limit when a woman is being delivered to a hospital or if a person is being taken to a hospital who really needs immediate help, e.g. A doctor's appointment. Firstly, there is a waiver by a police officer from stopping a driving licence which, in the current legal situation, acted on the basis of a vending machine, a mindless vending machine, and the Court found that this could not be the case. The driver did, as I said, such an act, but acted in a higher state of necessity in order to lift the immediate danger of the protected good, if the danger could not be avoided otherwise, and the consecrated good in the form of safety on the road represented a value lower than the good of the saved, the life of man. Secondly, in such a situation, the old man will have grounds for refusing to retain his licence. Therefore, as I said, Members have accepted our proposal. And we, of course, in this situation... Well, it's hard for us to make amendments, since we ourselves, as the Senate, are the authors of this submission. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u265	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Would the Minister like to speak? There you go. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Can I have it?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u266	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would just like to support the senate's motion, so to speak, with all dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u267	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. I'm opening a discussion. I state that no one has come forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I also inform you that you have put Senator Maciej Łuczak on the record. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u268	Thank you very much. And we proceed with the review of item nine of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 787 and the report of the committee In print No 787 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers adopted by the Sejm on 12 April 2018. On 13 April 2018, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. After considering the bill at its meeting on 8 May, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt a draft resolution. A petition addressed to the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions from a private person was a pretext for amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. The Act amending the Act on Drivers is intended to make it clear that the total or partial loss of hearing is not a medical contraindication to obtaining the right to drive or to withdraw it, with the exceptions set out in the Act. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the project, the novels: "In the current state of technology, also taking into account the experience of many countries where deaf people can be truck drivers, "what's important, we are talking about these large cars, not only about cars and experiences from Polish roads, on which people drive trucks on foreign registration plates, and are people who are completely or partially deaf." There is no justification for maintaining the current ban in Poland, which discriminates against a group of people with disabilities. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 3 The Act on Drivers of Vehicles may be directed by a physically disabled person if he/she obtains a medical certificate on the absence of a health warning to drive the vehicle. In turn, issued pursuant to Article. 81. 1 Regulation of the Minister for Health of 17 July 2014 on medical examinations of persons applying for driving rights and drivers provides in Annex No 3 that partial or complete hearing loss does not constitute a contraindications to the driving of vehicles by applicants for driving licences of categories AM, A1, A2, A, B1, B, B+E or T. This is the fundamental amendment to the Act. It's a medical certificate for no contraindications. At the moment, an article is being amended. 3. It was added to the mouth. 3a saying that total or partial loss of hearing is not a medical contraindication to obtaining the right to drive or to withdraw it. However, there are exceptions here. Such a person may not have a category D driving licence, i.e. the right to drive buses. It may also not have a category C or C1 driving licence, i.e. a licence to drive a truck if it has not previously had a category B driving licence for 2 years. There's still a matter of withdrawal. It is a situation where a person has the authority and such entitlement is to be withdrawn. As a result of this amendment will not be such a contraindications, it will not be such that the loss of hearing in total or in part will prevent the passing of a category C driving licence. To date, this has been decided by a doctor in his medical certificate. So far, it has been so with regard to category C that the doctor clearly ruled This was not mentioned in the Regulation That person may not apply for a category C driving licence. After that shift, she'll be able to take the exam. A doctor who will rule, even in the event of a complete loss the hearing will not be able to give a ruling that the test subject cannot apply for such a driving licence. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the committee has decided that this is important. It is about the labour market and it is about not discrimination against these people. They may have a driving licence of both category C and category B. These people have the right to take the test. They may be drivers, but of course they have to pass the test first. This is an important matter. Dear Senators, Minister, the committee held a discussion on the medical certificate. There is no record here and it must actually be regulated in the Regulation. We don't know anything about this from the bill that I think is going to be passed, because there's no information here. There must be a change with regard to medical certificates, namely the article I quoted, Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 talking about health contraindications. A doctor based on a record he's had so far... There was only a category there. A, B1, B and T. And that has to be changed. If this is not changed... the juror will continue to rule in accordance with the regulation, and therefore it is necessary to amend the regulation so that all of this can enter into force. This is the first case. The second thing was a little controversial. It is a petition law and an examination for disabled people who are completely or partially deaf. In fact, there is a change in the Act on Drivers, which is that the person giving the exam will be able to request that there be a sign language translator on the exam. She will be able to apply for this to the director of the voivodship traffic centre and then he will be obliged to hire an interpreter for the exam, but she will also be able to go on her own with such a translator and then the resort will not have to bear the costs. Let me remind you that we recently adopted a law that exempts disabled people from the costs of a practical examination. It's 140 zlotys. They won't pay it. Now, in addition, the road centre will have to hire a sign language translator if such a request is received, i.e. it will have to bear additional costs. These costs were also said that they might not be large and the centres would manage, but we must take into account that so far these people have not been able to take the exam because the medical certificate made it clear... If such a person was completely or partially deaf, she could not pass such an examination. It seems that these people who pass can now be far more. And then there's the second issue that needs to be regulated in a regulation about how a public examination of a person who doesn't hear anything at all is supposed to look like. We are talking about category B and category C driving licence, especially category C. What's this exam supposed to look like? Because there won't be a sign language translator on the theoretical exam. According to the law, the translator can only be on a practical exam. And the question is... All of you who passed the driving test know what this test looks like. There's a giver, and next to the examiner, he says, go right, go left, park, etc. It's okay, so to speak, an examination program that needs to be done during 45 minutes or an hour, I can't remember exactly now. This whole program needs to be done. And the question is, how is that supposed to work? If the translator sits in the back, he won't be able to show the person who sits in the front and directs what the commands are. We've been talking a little bit about how this is going to work. I think it's gonna stay, I don't know, in the regulation... Because the examiners will need to know how to do this exam. We're talking about people who can't hear at all, because it's especially important. I was talking about whether or not the examiner should be trained in sign language. It's always easier to show something in sign language to an examiner who sits next to the exam. Well, I don't think a sign language translator who's going to take a practical exam can help that person. Of course, you could use different methods here, I don't know, some subtitles showing up, but let's not exaggerate anymore... The driver, as he passes the test, is supposed to focus on driving, so we can't distract him. So I don't know what it's gonna look like. We asked a little about it, but it was hard... Well, we're not the first in Europe. If in other countries such an examination can be passed and there are drivers who have a category B and category C, that's for trucks, and they're driving on the road, it can somehow be solved. So that's what we're a little short on in the bill, which is these two cases. The point is, this doctor who's supposed to rule... this regulation has to be amended. And possibly the rules of the State exam should be amended in the case of those who pass, who are completely deaf or partially, to a large extent, which may be a difficulty. But in general, the committee is in favour of the bill. According to what I have read to you, the committee asks the Senate to approve the attached draft in accordance with the submission which came from the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u270	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u271	Thank you very much. Before I get to the question, I'm going to present some reflections. I hope your marshal will accept that. I am very pleased that today we are debating this law, because, first of all, it is indeed what the senator said that people who are deaf or deaf in other European countries, the European Union, are driving cars, including heavy goods. Secondly, I think this is a certain fulfilment of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which talks about the full participation of people with disabilities in various areas of life. It's a good thing it's in this, too. It's so conventional, I'd say. Third thing. I would like to thank you very much for working on this bill by Mr Piechota, President of the Parliament's petition committee, who piloted this bill and consulted it very widely. And as far as my questions are concerned, Mr. Senator has already answered one question. It seems to me that the way in which the exam is carried out... It's worth knowing in those countries where people who are not hearing are permanently driving vehicles where the problem with the exam is somehow resolved. And the second question is: did the committee's meeting mention this or did the Ministry estimate in any way how many deaf people are willing to pass on such a licence? What kind of group is this? How many? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u272	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u273	I don't think that was the case at the committee meeting, but, as I recall, in the Sejm. Because I heard and this discussion was said that there could probably be even about a million people in Poland who can't hear or have hearing loss. That information fell out of your undersecretary of state. I forgot the name of the Minister at the moment. Yeah, well, that kind of information is dead, but it's not... [[Not everyone's gonna drive trucks.]] Exactly. I don't think everyone wants to drive trucks. Therefore, the estimates that the Ministry collected from the voivodship traffic centres only spoke of a small amount due to the employment of a sign language translator. It will amount to about PLN 20,000. I just think it's not enough, because, after all, this change is going to make more people willing. For not only will there be those who have a complete loss of hearing, but also those who have not yet been able to get a judgment because they have had a significant loss of hearing. So I think there's gonna be more of those people who pass. But I think the important thing is that we allow them to pass it. Well, it's a little too bad that at this point in the bill... I understand that it was a petition, and that was the procedure, so that the information that is relevant here about this medical certificate... 'Cause I'm sure that's what needs to be changed. We didn't know anything. There was someone from NIK at the committee meeting. I don't remember this gentleman's name anymore. And he said that there should also be a regulation here at the same time, because until this regulation is amended, practically no doctor can give such a decision. Therefore, the amendment of the judgment is one time. And two: it is a pity that, at this stage at which we are proceeding, it is no longer clear how it is to be done. Because, of course, this is where you have to adapt to those people with disabilities at the moment. I am convinced that we will be able to do this, but this is a matter of regulations and further action. And the bill itself, as I said, is a very important and important matter. The point is not to discriminate against people who are completely deaf or partially deaf. And that's why, I think, we'll all support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u274	Thank you very much. The question you want to ask is Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm talking about the article. 3 (1) (a) 3a. There's a construction here. It's only in Polish. It's a double denial. Am I right? I will read it as I think the content of this article should be: if total or partial hearing loss is not a contraindication, with exceptions, it means that it is a contraindication for exceptions. [[Yes.]] So, yes: total or partial loss of hearing is a contraindication in the case of obtaining a D1 or D driving licence, am I right? To obtain a driving licence of category C1 or C and after these... [[After 2 years, if it's category B, it can pass. Yes.]] And now: it is a contraindication to revoke a category C or C1 driving licence for a period of one year from that event. Is that what this was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u276	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u277	Yes: to withdraw the driving licence of category C or C1 to a person who, following an emergency incident, has lost his hearing to an extent that prevents him from hearing, etc., etc. This is the person who lost her hearing as a result of an emergency. So we're talking about withdrawal if she's lost her hearing. Now we know that you will also be able to take the exam if you do not completely hear. So she'll be able to pass. Here is a contraindication for a person who, as a result of an emergency, lost his hearing to the extent that he could not understand speech from a distance of one meter, including using hearing aids, etc., etc. I think it's gonna be... I would ask for your opinion on this point, Minister, because he is a little vague. We understand the idea that a C and C1 exam can be passed. C1 refers to smaller trucks and C to large trucks. All we're talking about here is rescinding the rights, which is if someone already has them. So far he hasn't been able to pass, and there are no such people... [[He's got authority; we're not talking about passing.]] Yeah, yeah, sorry, he's got clearance, yeah. He has these category C privileges. So it's just about the withdrawal. I would ask you to redirect this question because I wouldn't want to wrongly answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u278	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government... I'm sorry, it was filed by the Sejm committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the present law? Minister Marek Chodkiewicz is with us. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u279	The government, of course, supports the bill, the amendment of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u280	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I understand the senator wishes to redirect this question... [[I'd like to repeat this question...]] Good. Minister, you're welcome... [[...because it's important to me.]] Good. Minister, I would like to invite you to the speaker, because this is where the ministers answer the questions. Perhaps there'll be another one. Yeah, well, you're welcome. And please, sir, the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, we understand this record in such a way that if there is a loss of hearing as a result of an emergency... This hearing can come back within a year. And here's the thing. The only time we're gonna withdraw our powers to a delinquent is when he's completely deprived of his hearing. If this hearing begins to return, we can proceed to the proceedings and the juror may give a judgment again. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u282	There you go, Mr. Senator. Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u283	Let's read it calmly once more and see if the content is written here. I don't know what to call it. It reflects the intentions of the state. So again. The total or partial loss of hearing is not a contraindication, except... Let's turn that phrase around. The total or partial loss of hearing is a contraindication of withdrawal of permission, suppose, for a period of one year after the hearing loss event... This should be understood to mean that the rights cannot be revoked for a period of one year and can be withdrawn after one year. Is that what this was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u284	I think it's the other way around. The point was, within a year of the incident... There's a director here who can help me if I need him. It seems to me that a person who, as a result of an emergency, lost the ability to understand speech from a distance of one meter... With hearing aids or hearing implants, this hearing may return after a year. That's how I understand it. But I don't know if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u285	Excuse me, Minister... Just a quick question. Can this cultivation be undone for a period of one year, or can it not be undone? Let's leave these, excuse me, ornaments, and let's just consider the beginning and the end of this mouth. 3a. I'll read it again. Listen to me. Total or partial loss of hearing is a medical contraindication for withdrawal of permission for one year after hearing loss... [[Mrs. Marshal, can I help you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u286	Yes, Minister, you're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Maybe the record is not unambiguous. Maybe you really need it...]] Minister, Senator... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Senator wants to add?]] ...Constanty Radziwiłł, Minister, would like to say a word and probably end it with a question, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u287	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in such an extraordinary mode... [[Please.]] This is the exception, when not only can you, but you should withdraw permissions, because sudden hearing loss involves a particular type of disability, a disability going further than that occurring when you do not hear long. And that's exactly what this is about. The senator's right. This is a situation where... [[Voice from the room: But this is...]] No, no, it's written right. The hearing and deaf should not be withdrawn except for those who have lost their hearing abruptly for a year. If they still can't hear after a year, then they can get their driver's license back because they're deaf for a long time, and a person who doesn't hear long, like she's adapted to that disability enough. - That's the idea. That you can get your driver's license back. And you can't only withdraw your driver's license to this person during this period, but you should, and that's how it's written. It's well written.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u288	I will insist on my own, while this content is contrary to what the Senator and the Minister have rightly called for here. But this content, if you read it in a way... without these ornaments, because they are very out of logic: total or partial loss of hearing is a health contraindications of withdrawal of rights. It's the health contraindications of withdrawal within a year...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u289	Mr. Senator... [[Excuse me, I'll stick with mine, please...]] Of course you have the right. Mr. Senator, of course you have the right. I believe that the responses of the ministers' ministers, the minister's and the minister's senator's, so to speak, were exhausting. Are you still, Minister... You want to ask a question, don't you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u290	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to refer to the question of exams and ask the Minister whether, in fact, in this whole discussion about how to conduct the exam... Do you really think that some regulation is necessary in this regard? Because I personally believe that if deaf, hearing-deaf people have the right to drive, including trucks, and therefore have the right to pass exams, it is quite obvious that the voivodship centres must provide them with the conditions under which it will be possible. If someone starts talking to a deaf person, turn left, turn right and she won't be able to understand it, then of course these conditions are not met. So that I think that such a person who would have to pass under conditions when he is unable to find out what the examiner's orders are should complain that she was simply prevented from taking the exam. I don't know, I'd ask you to confirm my intuition that this can be left to the WORDs to do so as to make things right, depending on the ability of a given passing person...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u291	Mr. Senator, you're absolutely right. It seems to me that even today people who, for example. They're already in some kind of trouble, but they don't require that much interference, these exams pass. So that such a problem should not be and in my opinion it does not require additional regulation in the form of passing the exam.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u292	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you...]] Stay still, or there'll be a question. Senator Piotr Florek. Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u293	...this record... I suppose you can say that when something suddenly happened, I'm stunned for a while, I'm not used to it, I think I hear it, and I don't hear it, and so on... And that's why maybe this period... But this is not well formulated in this recipe, and it would require... We understand what this is about, but it really needs to be improved. But, Minister, about... the first thing is a regulation, because it's important. At the moment, you said that the WORDs would manage, and so on, that such cases... No, there haven't been cases like this, so far there hasn't been, because a deaf person couldn't take a driving test. Period. Because the medical certificate... She didn't get her medical certificate. The medical certificate was clear, and I was quoting you an article that says, and so on, and so on and so on. So... With partial deafness Yes, depending on... It was decided by a doctor who ruled whether or not a person could. But now we are also talking about completely deaf people, therefore this is a new thing on exams, certain standards should be developed and should be uniform throughout Poland. It can't be like this... You know the rules, you know what it looks like when it comes to exams, etc., etc. It can't be that in every WORD, they're going to do it differently. Some standards in this case must be defined, it must be clear what the state exam should look like. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all on the road, and we want the person who's driving, for example. The truck actually passed this test correctly, as you should pass, with certain harassments, etc., so that we also feel safe as we travel on the roads. So there are certain requirements, and therefore if a person doesn't hear completely, then of course the information that is being transmitted so far, when the examiner says to park in the cove, to go backwards, to enter, etc., etc... These are some things in which part of the person who will be a sign language translator will be able to help by sitting in the back. But he has to show it, and the person sitting in the front doesn't see it. So you have to develop some standards in some way. Well, I don't know if the voivodship traffic centers can handle it, they're gonna do something, but it can't be that we're just gonna leave it at that, that everyone can handle it. No, there hasn't been a situation like this so far, and it has to be resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u294	I think, Mr. Senator, let's just leave it the way it is for now, and if we see that the WORDs aren't doing well, then of course we'll be regulating this case. But it seems to me today that they can handle it perfectly. [[What about the health minister's regulation? There has to be a regulation, or they won't be able to pass.]] They're gonna set it up a little bit like we're forcing the Minister of Health to issue this regulation. That's our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u295	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for the Minister, so thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. [[What about the tenth?]] Ten? It was already announced by Marshal Sewerinski that he would be there tomorrow, Mr. Marshal. [[Okay, I'll be there by 10:00.]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 790 and the report of the Commission In print No 790 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Senate Infrastructure Commission dealt with the Yacht Registration Act and other vessels up to 24 m long. The main objective of the Act is to simplify and organise the rules for the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. Currently there are 6 different registers. Fishing vessels and vessels used for amateur fishing with a length of at least 7,5 m or for mechanical propulsion of at least 15 kW, vessels used for fishing, as well as vessels operating outside the territory of the Republic of Poland shall be required to register. The register will be kept in the IT system, it will be an open register. The registration authority will be an old-timer or an appropriate Polish sports association. According to Art. 10 The owner of a registered craft shall notify the registration authority within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of the fact, of the disposal or acquisition of the craft or of a change in the facts requiring the change of the data contained in the register, in particular the change in the facts requiring the removal of the unit from the register. The law also introduces criminal sanctions. These are fines. The Act provides for a gradual exchange of existing registration documents for new ones within 30 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. The owner of a vessel which has not been subject to registration in accordance with previous regulations will be required to register it within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2020 with the exception of Article. 26 and Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles Conduct of the committee meeting. At the beginning, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek G grubarczyk, presented the objectives of this law. Then the legislator took the floor. Then there was a very short discussion, 2 senators, Senator Pekkis and Senator Biesiołek, asking about matters related to registration itself and issues related to the obligation to examine the technical condition of the boat. The Bureau's proposed amendments were then voted on. Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and first part of Amendment 7 were accepted. Amendment 2 was not accepted. These are amendments that do not change the legal status of the state. Then the entire bill was voted on. Seven senators, all present senators, supported...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u297	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u298	You mentioned to the senator the rapporteur that questions were asked, amendments were tabled. I'm interested in records that are well-solved. Technical reviews were also mentioned, especially of large units. How was this case filed by the authors of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u299	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u300	It was only partially... The question was about engine reviews... [[No...]] Yes, the engines were mentioned at the committee meeting, as I recall, and not the reviews of the entire units. We're talking yachts, but yachts don't have to have an engine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u301	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to make sure that this is what it looks like when it comes to sailing yachts, let's say inland sailboats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u303	That is, according to the law, we have clearly defined that the regulations will apply units between 7.5 and 24 m, above 24 m are already ships. If we're talking about inland vessels, they're mostly small. So, if the Minister means small sailboats, they are not required to register, although they can be registered by the owner himself, because this possibility is in the bill. [[Thank you very much. Are there any more...]] I mean, what's important is that there's full control over the registration of units above 7.5 m. There's gonna be some sort of registration document, like a car ID, with the unit's data, etc. Besides, it will be mandatory to put a number on the aft of a given unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u304	Thank you very much. Are there any questions? Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! However, so far there was a rule that even larger units were not subject to this special registration, i.e. it was up to 12 m. At the moment, the government is lowering it, it's proposing that it's 7.5 m, that's the limit size. Like a government representative, how the government justified it to just increase the number...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u306	There was no question at the committee meeting about this justification, so I'm asking you this question... [[So we're gonna be explaining this with the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u307	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to represent the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Minister Marek Grabierczyk with us. Minister? You're welcome. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will no longer enter into general cases concerning this law, I will only refer to the questions that have been asked. Indeed, we reduce the length of the yachts that are required to register from 12 m to 7.5 m, but this is the only limitation that we introduce for a simple reason. Well, today we have a division between inland and marine units. Inland units can be registered... They must be recorded above 12 m and the sea ones from 5 m. Because we want to unify it. And that was the only purpose of our action. We raise it to 7.5 m of the required length of the marine unit, and lower it to 7.5 m in the case of inland craft, creating as if one barrier. So this is the length of 7.5 m and the power of 15 kW in the case of units that are subject to registration. This is based on simple logic. An entity with a length of 7,5 m which goes out into the sea is already a serious entity and must therefore be subject to security measures. There could be a falsifying relationship if an inland registration... Yeah, it was. This has been introduced inland to avoid a five-metre record for marine units. Those decisions were a compromise. They were also dictated by safety considerations, which were defined by the maritime authorities of. a unit with 7.5 m, which is already a large unit. The change will not mean that everyone will have to go registering and at the same time will allow the vessels above 7.5 m to be under control when they leave the sea.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u309	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Kleina wishes to ask the Minister a question. Please ask a question from a place of no more than one minute. I have to say this. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u310	I would really like to continue this subject because I remember that when we worked on this law in the previous term, it was a dispute between the maritime administration and the owners of yachts and people who deal with water matters. Of course, the maritime authorities wanted to introduce as many rules as possible here, which would introduce various administrative restrictions, certificates, etc. There was a dispute about it. And at that point, there was so much we could do. It seems to me that today, with experience of a few years, we should show that we can liberalize the rules and act as we do in many other countries where sea and water traditions are much greater than ours. We're still trying to limit these kinds of ways, I'd say, marine things. It would seem logical to increase the limit to 12 m, it is about individuals that would not be registered, all the more so as the statistics show If that's not the case, I'd ask the Minister to correct me. That the solutions we adopted a few years ago did not cause more collisions and some tragedies at sea or in inland waters. This was due to the fact that the rules were a little liberalised in relation to the previous ones. Now I think so. We're going backwards. The Minister himself said that it was enough to register a vessel as an inland vessel so that it could also swim on the seas. Right? Whether the current rules, compared to the previous ones, can lead to more marine collisions, accidents at sea, threats, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u311	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u312	Thank you very much. The main aim of the Act is primarily to liberalize all kinds of recommendations, sharpenings, etc., so that this sport and this tourism become popular and accessible. So we're kind of releasing individuals that, according to our assessment... About 80% of them are units up to 7.5 m. They'll be free of any sharpening. I'm not talking about registration security or fees anymore. It is important that they are not subject to any charges. The same is true of the units you spoke of, Senator Rulewski. These are units that would require reviews with engine power above 75 kW. That's not gonna happen either. We think it's pointless for every scooter to be reviewed only because it has a large engine. This is, we think, a certain abuse that hinders the development of this sport or tourism. All these things have been removed because it's about cost-intensiveness and as if it's a burden. But for safety reasons, as Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I will not make a decision to release a 12-metre-long craft into the sea without any registration. However, this is too much risk and too much burden to be legally resolved in this way. This is a ruthless assessment of maritime offices, as well as specialists in this area and captains, because it is already about large units, 12 meters long, which could go free to sea. And on the other hand, we wanted to stop the fiction that kept it going, that it was all recorded in the middle of the earth, and we still don't know. it was... and it wasn't allowed for shipping, and yet we know that shipping took place. So we release most, as I say, 80 or 90%. individuals with registration obligations, leaving the registration above a certain... And we enter one clear and legible register, and this register will be kept computerically, so thanks to the end installed at home you will be able to register a given unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u313	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to come back from the sea on the inland coast because you talk about sport and tourism, and the overwhelming majority of Poles swim in the inland, the minority swims in the sea. And certainly since you are talking about the liberalisation of these rules, it must be said that they are not, in fact, liberalized. 'Cause so far, you couldn't register... If I understand it well, because this recipe is not quite clear... Please confirm that I am right that at the moment practically everyone, speaking such a human language, a sailboat above 7.5 m must be registered. [[Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: Yes.]] And every motorboat above 15 kW must be registered. [[Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: Yes.]] Well, it's not liberalisation, it's just... [[It's the other way around.]] ...on the contrary, because so far it was 12 m was the limit It's true, isn't it? I mean... [[Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: Yes, but 5 m...]] So... I'll get right to the question. I mean, this isn't liberalisation. 'Cause it's not. But my question is, what is this registration procedure going to be, especially sailing boats? Because I understand there's some kind of engine control in the case of motorboats. And in the case of sailboats, what's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u315	Well, that's from the length of the unit. It will simply be subject to registration only by means of a form that will be... [[So no reviews, etc. No, it won't.]] None. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Already? It's me...]] It's just and it's just... Because we divide them into commercial units and recreational units... Recreational units are not subject to any control, while commercial units that perform services to customers are subject to restrictions resulting from this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u316	Thank you very much. Okay, maybe Senator Klein and then Senator Radziwiłł. There you go. [[Well, maybe first Senator Radziwill...]] To ask? [[Yeah, so he'll ask.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you. So I would like to ask you why the registration of yachts is actually used, say, sailing boats from 7.5 to 12 m, such recreational sailing boats that swim in Masurian lakes and other places. What's it actually for?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u318	For the purpose of introducing a register, for security reasons, for statistical reasons and for the purpose of ordering all of this. Because today, every relationship has its own record, it's kept in such a way that it's incompatible with each other. The purpose of this introduction is therefore to organise and, as a matter of fact, to determine the quantity of these units.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u320	Minister, I'd like to... Because I've asked you this before, and I asked you this question, and there's a request to possibly say... Did the result of the previous law, which we are now modifying, introduce solutions liberalized in relation to these previous records, about these 12 m... Did this situation lead to more accidents, more collisions in inland or sea waters, or did you not see this problem? And why don't you agree that different sailing unions keep these ship registers? Is this really what an official is needed for? Can't the environment itself, operating on the basis of regulations, register these units, write them down, etc.? Does it always have to be done by state offices?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u321	But that's what we're doing here because we're allowed to register relationships and all the old stuff. It's just that it's so common... Therefore, our application, which was accepted by the Polish digital programme, has been prepared and a register will be introduced under which this registration will be carried out simply from home. She's simple, easy and effortless. So this is an easy way to make it easier to actually make this registration from anywhere. [[What about the accident issue?]] Accident... Well, I can't relate directly to the data because I don't have these statistics right now, but it seems that most of these units were unregistered, so there are no statistics. [[Oh, no. The statistics of accidents at sea...]] Only if it's... [[...are run regardless of what it is...]] It's the ones at sea, isn't it? [[In inland waters the same way.]] When it comes to accidents at sea, yes. When it comes to the inland, it's so poor that it's hard to use.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u322	That is why it is still a question: why limit these rights when they have proved to be correct? The point is, indeed, as Senator Konstanty Radziwił said, to liberalize it even more so as to encourage people to swim on the sea, lakes, rivers, etc. 'Cause I'm still... We're a sea state, that's what we're proud of, but it's for a good cause if you want a boat. I live by the water, by the sea In fact, there are restrictions everywhere. There are far fewer of them than there were, say, ten years ago, but they're just still there. That's right, we've been past those times a long time since... [[Okay...]] ...you couldn't even get in... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to the area of the fishing port.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u323	Mr. Senator... [[So that we are...]] ...thank you very much, because it's not asking questions anymore, it's turning into a discussion. Does the Minister have anything else to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u324	I'm just gonna say it again. The senator said about the sea. In the case of the sea there is absolute liberalisation, it is just increased the length of the unit from 5 m to 7.5 m, which, so to speak, liberates the vast space of these units in terms of registration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u325	Good. Thank you. You're Senator Jan Rulewski, and then you're Senator Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u326	In his statement, the Minister strongly referred to the issue of technical reviews, including in particular those of scooters that have more than 75 kW power. Well, if you were to accept your love of scooters... Sorry, that's not a charge. But these engines drive commercial lines, commercial units. In addition, in these units there are not only engines, there are technical devices necessary for safety, lighting and signalling. Sometimes these units carry people up to 12 people, so the safety of these people is all the more... So shouldn't your counter-argument with this proposal be deepened?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u327	No, because once again, commercial units are subject to inspection, recreational No, no, no, no, And that's the main advantage of this system. Because all recreation is just released...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u328	Okay, but the other argument is the same. Then tell me why it's the ones that have the power... Other technical equipment is necessary. Because it's not just about scooters, it's about boats, sailboats, ships, including tourist ships, carrying people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u329	Well, then. ... [[Why are they exempted from reviews?]] Well, they're not fired. Commercials aren't fired. [[I'm talking about tourist.]] Tourists are fired. Up to 7.5 m, limited, and 15 kW for registration... And when it comes to reviews, 75 horsepower... [[Up to 75...]] And that only applies to commercial units. [[But I'm just asking about the tour.]] Tourists are fired. [[I'm just asking why.]] [[That's what the Minister has given...]] 'Cause it's okay... It seems to us a simple matter... [[Why?]] ...that it's not necessary if someone buys a scooter... [[Registration and technical review...]] ...to make sure he's still doing a review. [[Because it's a technical device...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u330	Good. Thank you very much. [[... causes accidents...]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go. Then Senator Radziwill. And then the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have a question about this data migration. 'Cause it's not really going to happen. I understand that the same registration bodies that have accepted applications so far will accept them further, and each owner will have to register his yacht again. And why not do something like that for those who are already registered? You could do migration from paper to electronic version. Isn't it that when we computerize this register, we're going to collect additional data that we're just going to need to re-introduce?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u332	If this data allows for migration, it will certainly happen, but I can't say it today because the system is still being designed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u333	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u334	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm still having second thoughts about the article. 6, which refers to what data must be given when registering. I have to say that you go back to this completely amateur, traditional inland sailing and in Polish waters there are a lot of different old things, some very, very old sailboats that somebody did once. Perhaps it's not even known when they were produced. They are often units built by the economic system, because it is possible to declare that the boat itself was built, but there are also many that were not produced or built by the owner, and their history is lost somewhere in the dark and simply cannot be recreated. What will the registration of this type of boat look like? Because there are certainly quite a lot of them, and these are individuals that sometimes have more than 7.5 m, some old desets or other sailboats. As regards the various types of information listed in Article. 6, information about these boats, I think there may be trouble getting them or giving them to the owner in a responsible manner. What's it gonna look like if you can't give that data?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u335	As far as these data are concerned, which we defined in the context of the public consultation, we took the view that they would be provided as if they were optional. If such information is available, if the owner has such data as the CE conformity, he shall enter it. If he doesn't, he doesn't have to do it. If the number is known, it will be entered. If you don't, you don't have to do it, so it's not mandatory. [[But for example. make, model and type are mandatory.]] I think the brand's bright enough... Well, we think... [[What about a 40-year-old boat?]] These are antiques, aren't they? Well, if there's a 40-year-old unit, we know what kind of production it is. We think... [[Many such individuals, even older ones, swim. Even fishing boats...]] [[It's prewar.]] Please enter that there is Polish production, any production. Well, it's just an indication of the brand in the assessment of the owner who owns this unit. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, this is to be the basis for dealing with all types of insurance, because today such an entity is very difficult to register as regards insurance, and we know that the practices that are being applied are often not to be applied. Therefore, it is as if the civilization of this case, resulting precisely from the ordering of the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u336	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u337	Minister, because the interest in this topic is greater than in the committee meeting, I will also add one question à on technical reviews. Are there any known cases of an engine-powered unit, a scooter, which was caused by technical deficiencies, even though the vehicle had a technical review? This question applies in general to the fiction of these reviews, so in the context of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u338	These data were in the hands of the sailing unions and access to them was limited. We can relate to these types of accidents. only through a maritime accident investigation committee or registers at inland waterway authorities. But for today, I can't tell you that. Today it seems to us that this way, as if it would sort things out in connection with the accident of such individuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u339	Thank you very much. Please. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u340	One last question, I won't have any more questions. Minister, when preparing these regulations, you compared them to other regulations in other European countries, the EU, I do not know, e.g. Norway? Are these solutions comparable to solutions in these countries, or are they more liberal than them, or are there stricter rules?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u341	The system was based on German and English systems.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u342	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Mark Rocky to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My speech is to serve as a justification for the amendment I am making. But I'd like to start with what the Minister said. If among those sailing boats which are used in inland waters, 80% are boats up to 7,5 m, i.e. 20% These are the ones between 7.5 m and 12 m. This means that the regulations in question introduce restrictions for 20% of boat owners. And I wouldn't call liberalisation a change of laws that looks like this. At the moment we have a provision which states that a Polish ship used exclusively for sports or recreation with a hull length above 12 m is subject to registration. This is now the case: above 12 m is subject to an obligation. And you're proposing that a ship intended or used exclusively for sports or recreation up to 24 m is registered. That means we're introducing restrictions, not liberalization. You told the minister there were no accident statistics. There are statistics. There have been virtually no accidents in Mazury since 2007. And I would like to remind you where these 12 m laws came from, because these are the rules that we introduced during the 2005-2007 term at the request of the government. Then Minister Parda, who represented the League of Polish Families, said precisely that in order to enable Polish families to relax over water, we propose to increase the length of the hull, which does not require registration. To enable Polish families. You are going the opposite way to make it difficult for Polish families to relax by the water. That is why I am making an amendment to bring back the situation that was introduced in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u344	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here as a sidekick. But not the lobbyist, the issues raised by the Polish motorboat union concerning the need for periodic technical reviews of tourist units where an engine with a power greater than 75 kW is installed. Well, first of all, this equipment is getting more and more, because Poles are getting richer, so to speak, the density of their movement is greater. Secondly, these units aren't just like you said... You simplified it, brought it to the scooter. Except on land, the scooter used to have 1.5. kW and must have had a technical review. Well, density in communist times, 'cause I'm talking about these laws, it was very small. And this scooter, which in general, by law, couldn't travel more than 40 km, required a technical review. Later, additional safety features were introduced in the form of helmets and higher technical requirements for the scooter. In the case of vessels, this scooter can actually make you feel funny, but I don't think that's what you've said, but already in the craft of the scooter... I'm sorry, a craft that takes more people aboard than a passenger car can pose a threat to those who control it and are on the ground, as well as to other participants in the water traffic. That's one thing. 75 kW has a good car today. So this is a good car, with an extra mass, sometimes bigger than a car, because it's over a ton. This kinetic energy, badly controlled, can blow up a lot of bridge. Training, as is emphasized here, is deteriorating, inflation, so the helmmen of this equipment are not well aware of the various aspects of its performance. I myself once got on an untrained scooter and didn't really know how to jump out of it, because that's the beauty of over 100 horsepower. This is the first case. But second of all, you're on your own as if you're pointing the way. Insurance companies such units up to 24 m and so richly armed... Well, they define insurance options depending on the technical diagnosis, the technical efficiency of the vehicle. Sometimes a mechanical vehicle on land simply doesn't register and sanctions fall on a driver who hasn't done the right thing. And the third aspect is a commercial aspect. An entity swimming in its history, its history of reviews... If we're talking about Germany, why are we buying cars there? Because they are periodically always and thoroughly reviewed, they are simply always functional. Then why not refer to the Polish yachts whose review history illustrates how well a given individual was conducted? But favors... There's a lot of cases. The media is writing about it. The Minister doesn't have those records. That units are often self-propelled which do not meet the technical conditions and which are subject to turnover and therefore turnover without control. I believe that safety is priceless and I consider it appropriate to make amendments to ensure that units above 75 kW are subject to periodic inspection and technical review. [[What about these corrections, Mr. Senator?]] Oh, your marshal, she noticed a lack and she's pulling out her noble hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u346	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senators Marek Rocki and Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister, would you like to comment on these legislative proposals? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I hereby announce a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow. I would like to remind you that tomorrow we will start by considering item 16, i.e. information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016, and then we will proceed to the examination of point 10: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess by 10:00 tomorrow... Oh, I'm sorry, but there's messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u347	Message number one. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Civil Code and some other laws will take place on 10 May at 8.45 in room 176. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of requests submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act on Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long will take place on 10 May at 9.00 in room 182. Last message. Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance under the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information on the consideration of the Head of National Tax Administration's information on the activities referred to in Article. 113.117, Art. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Art. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 (Article 1 (10) of the Rules of Procedure) 120. Article 2 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 122 and Article 122 thereof. The 123th National Tax Administration Act for the period from 1 March 2017 to 31 December 2017 will take place on 10 May at 8.15 p.m. in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-senat-60-1.u348	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 06]]
