ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Krzysztof Kubov, Piotr Olszówka and Rafał Weber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Olszówka and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Rafał Weber. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. There's no envoy? Oh, there's no messages. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on changes in the personal compositions of Parliamentary committees, - on changes in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm. Applications shall be in print Nos 3104 and 3094 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the position of the Senate on the Law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, print No 3105. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Seym! The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, with the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, appointed Mr Nicholas Paweł Pawlak as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Before taking up his duties, he shall take the oath before the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with the following item: Vowing the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the oath of the Ombudsman. The Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, called Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak to the position of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. According to Art. The 5th Ombudsperson of the Children's Rights Act shall take the oath before the Sejm before taking part in its duties. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please, especially, Member, be quiet. I state that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak volunteered to take the oath. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] I'm asking Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak to take his vows right now. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u2	I solemnly vow that in the performance of my duties as a spokesperson of the rights of the child I will remain faithful to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I will uphold the rights of the child, following the rules of law, the welfare of the child and the welfare of the family. I pledge that I will carry out my duties impartially, with the utmost care and diligence, that I will uphold the dignity of my position and keep my secret legally protected. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u3	Thank you. I state that Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak, appointed to the post of Child Rights Ombudsman, took a vow before the Sejm. High Seym! A few days ago, we received information about the adoption by the Hungarian National Assembly of the Act on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. On behalf of myself and the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, representatives of Parliamentary Members of the Sejm, i.e. Members of the House and Members of Parliament, as well as all Poles, I thanked Mr László Kövér, MEP of the Hungarian Parliament and President of the Hungarian National Assembly for this initiative. All Members will receive the text of the Hungarian law in Polish translation. [[Applause]] The formal proposal is made by Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday in Lublin we said goodbye to one of the last soldiers of the Republic of Poland - Marian Chmielewski ps. Tomato, a soldier of Jeronim Dekutowski's group of firewalls. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] He fought in patrol of Stanisław Jasiński's dog. A frog who worked as part of the Kedyw Narodowy Army Dispatch. The fight did not stop with the Soviets entering Poland. In 1945 he returned to the underground and belonged to the resistance of the Home Army. First he fought in the platoon of Aleksandr Sochałski. Ghost, then Tadeusz Skrainski's. It's a veggie. In the autumn of 1946, arrested by UB, he stood before the Military District Court in Lublin. On behalf of communist law, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison for fighting in the underground of independence and possession of weapons. He was put in the castle in Lublin, then transferred to prisons in Wronki and Rawicz. In 1951, he was again tried and sentenced to another 15 years in prison. He was released by amnesty in 1956. In 1991, the court in Lublin, in the rehabilitation process, decided that Marian Chmielewski acted in favour of the independent Polish state. His meetings with the young people he loved were always a lesson in history, patriotism, but also humorous, because his sense of humor was unbelievable. To the end, he carried the message of his commandant, who, coming out of death row for execution, shouted: Victory will come! We'll never give up! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Praise the heroes. Thank you. [[Part of Members: Praise the heroes.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u5	The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Izabela Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition submitted a bill reducing excise duty on electricity. If the government and the majority of the parliament really want Poles not to pay higher bills next year, [[Applause]] We have to process this bill urgently. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I request a recess, a convocation of the Senior Convention and an introduction to the Parliament's deliberations of a draft bill submitted by our club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u7	Well, yes, Madame, but this is not a formal proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: There it is. There it is.]] [[Extension of the agenda.]] This is not a formal conclusion... [[Voice from the room: Expansion.]] ...because it doesn't concern the agenda. This is not on the agenda, which was established a few days ago. In the future, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please send such a letter to me. Today was the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, the Senior Convention, which we were able to consider. And I'd like to consider... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...only in accordance with the rules, ladies and gentlemen, not on the basis of what will he play in his soul. Let me remind you that the Modern Posel Club has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - Information from the Council of Ministers on the measures taken in connection with the occurrence of a natural disaster in the country, in the form of drought, in order to protect citizens from the drastic rise in cereal prices, - Information from the Minister of National Education on the school conditions of pupils and teachers of Class VII who, in the light of the Ombudsman's report of 17 August 2018, face the consequences of poorly arranged curricula: excessive education and homework, inability to fully implement the programme and inability to clearly present the teaching content, - Information from the Minister of Justice on the progress and findings of the prosecution's investigation concerning the withdrawal of PLN 1.2 million from the Lower Silesian branch of the Polish Red Cross and the transfer of part of this amount to the electoral campaign of the current Minister of National Education. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information to the Council of Ministers about the actions taken in connection with the occurrence of a natural disaster in the country, in the form of a drought, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 192 votes against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information on the Minister of National Education. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 172 was in favor of, against - 243, 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the motion for information from the Minister of Justice. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 229, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Civic and Modern Platform clubs have requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on all proceedings pending since November 2015 as well as those which have been dismissed or suspended at that time by the prosecution or the Central Anti-corruption Office against or in the case of former or current law and justice politicians (in particular Members, Senators, Ministers and Vice-Ministers) related to the suspicion of a corruption offence. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) I would remind you that, as in the previous point, according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this request to complete the agenda, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 232, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - Examination of the parliamentary draft resolution amending the resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions by public bodies in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015, - Information from the Minister of Justice about the current situation in prison in Poland, as well as the reliability and regularity of the tasks carried out by the Ministry, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the links, sentenced to imprisonment for illegal recording of talks between politicians, Mr Marek Falenty and representatives of the services of the Russian Federation. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I shall put to the vote the requests for these items to be added to the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the request for supplementing the agenda by the following item: Review of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation, which I mentioned earlier, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 199, against - 229, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the offer. We are voting on the motion for information from the Minister of Justice. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 225, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the motion for information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 227, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Kukiz Club has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - Examination of the parliamentary draft law on the repeal of the law on municipal guards and on the amendment of other laws, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the Radom Corruption Agreement disclosed in the media on 30 August 2018. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, we do not hold a debate or ask questions before joining these points. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a law on municipal guards. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 46 against - 382, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 196 voted against - 231, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers regarding the sale of Polish agricultural land on a large scale. As the deadline referred to in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is approaching, I will put the request to the vote on the agenda. Nor do we hold a debate here or ask questions before the vote. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 196, against - 231, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on local government. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u8	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone here is well aware that this change in the Local Government Act is dedicated to the Podlaskie Voivodship. It is undoubtedly a purely political project, and yet another non-constitutional project. I have a question for Members of the applicants - 44 Members of Law and Justice - as well as the rapporteur: Why are you once again so inefficiently preparing a draft that is not in accordance with the Constitution, which gives the possibility of controlling the President of the Council of Ministers by hand, as well as a voivodeship that can interfere with the Statute of the voivodship? Will manual control by law and justice now be a rule in democracy and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lawmaking? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u9	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this is an example of complete ignorance and lack of respect for the law. How can we propose a law that deals with one case in a good way? The laws adopted by the Sejm should be laws that affect the entire life in Poland. However, once again, you are introducing a law that, for a good cause, I do not know, is to subordinate your councillors so that they do not vote for the best candidate, because he is from the Civic Coalition. You've already changed the voivodship bill so that three of your voivodships will meet the requirements so that they can be appointed. Then you want to adopt a law on 7 people within the metropolitan union. It shows that you just want to manually control everyone, including local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u11	Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski will speak on behalf of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry that you're even as short a bill as literally a one-sided bill containing four articles... [[Voice from the room: One-sided.]] ...about the amendment of the Regional Government Act you can't read... [[You said it right.]] [[Voice from the room: But even one-sided...]] Don't scream, don't scream. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Unilateral.]] I didn't scream how your friend and I were asking a question here, so don't yell. This is a unilateral law and the questioning state has not read this law, because the law applies to all voivodships, not one, and will have consequences not only for this term of government, but also for all term of self-government. I know, you would like to see situations like this so that you can conduct obstruction in the work of the local government, but the local government has very important tasks to do for citizens and should work. [[And he's working.]] And this law eliminates the legal gap that allows for obstructions in the work of the local government. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Suitable?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u13	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application for rejection at first reading of the draft Print Act No. 3087, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Third reading. I ask Mr Gosievski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. Originally, it's print number 2787. At the second reading, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice tabled one amendment concerning point 11 of Article. 1, which removes a typing error, which in turn ensures compliance with the provisions of the Act. The joint committees request that this amendment be adopted and that the entire draft law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u15	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, it's 3064. The amendment in question will be voted first. In the amendment to the article. Article 24 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 part of the Joint Public Finance Act, the applicants propose a new wording of the template. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We vote on the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on notariat. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3058. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill from this printing, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on notariat. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3066-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law Act and some other laws. This report is included in print No 3066. On 13 December, yesterday, at its meeting, the Infrastructure Committee examined the draft, considered nine amendments, recommending the adoption of five and the rejection of four and the vote in full in favour of the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u17	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments in the first place, as well as on the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that, as far as the proposal is concerned, the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question at this point is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motion to reject this law is well founded. Unfortunately, it is a harmful act. Even your spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs said the bill was wrong. The industry says the bill is bad, only the Minister claims the bill is good. So we see something's wrong here. We with the entire club will certainly support the motion to reject the project in its entirety. It is a law that can bring down the entire industry. And I suspect we don't have a lot of diagnostics here in the Seym. I'm not that kind of diagnostic either. That's why I asked the right people. We met with industry representatives. They clearly say that this law can undermine the entire market of diagnostic stations. If that happens, we'll all feel it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by quoting the operative part of the Ombudsman's letter from small and medium-sized enterprises, which asks kindly to reconsider the appropriateness of the organisation of the vehicle control system as set out in the draft law. At the same time, the Ombudsman's assessment requires further legislative work to improve the current system in accordance with the Directive, rather than introducing new cost-intensive solutions. And so I wanted to ask the Minister whether it is true that the spokesperson of entrepreneurs was against this, as was the whole environment, business organisations, while the only institution that was interested in this project in such a way that it prepared and made more than PLN 0.5 billion on this project, was Transport Technical Supervision, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which in fact does not guarantee better quality road safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u21	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 202 voted against - 217, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Traffic Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 84 applicants propose to add point 4 in paragraph 1. 1 and give a new wording to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You rejected the motion for rejection. This is not a good decision, but I hope that in the following speeches I will give you a hint, you will reflect and at the end you will vote against this law. This law introduces another paratax for entrepreneurs in the amount of PLN 3.5 from the car, which will enter the station, it is so-called. the quality fee. This shows that the more a businessman works, the more research he does, the more expensive it will cost him. For example: $5,000. research during the year the entrepreneur will pay an additional 17.5 thousand, at 10 thousand. The research will be 35 000. zł. on a yearly basis. Question: "Is this how you want to help entrepreneurs?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u23	To whom is this question, Mr President? It's us, isn't it? [[The minister's office.]] [[Voices from the room: To the applicant.]] Who are you guys? The government? The representative of the government at this point is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz. Would you like to speak? [[Grace doesn't.]] A question about parataxes. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal wasn't paying attention? Do you need to remind him?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as parataxes are concerned, this is quite a misconception, as the Minister of Infrastructure will issue a regulation on the quality levy at the end of 2019. In the Act it is set at the maximum level. If it is necessary to increase the amount for the survey, the Minister of Infrastructure will also be able to do so, so that entrepreneurs may not feel it at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u25	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 201 voted against - 218, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 84 applicants by the addition of paragraph. 24 and 25 offer e.g. the introduction of an annual valorisation obligation for the fees for carrying out the technical examination. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is actually an amendment by the social side, as is the previous and subsequent amendments that we have tabled. On her behalf, I just wanted to let you know that the technical research has been at the same level for 14 years when it comes to their cost. We know that you've been pressing down on entrepreneurs all the time with your next taxes. They say it's already a business on the verge of profitability. This amendment simply wants to ensure that it is at least minimally cost-effective in order to maintain the quality of technical research. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u27	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 224, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 86b propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u28	In the amendment, we propose to delete this provision because it is, I think, unfair treatment of entrepreneurs. In this situation, there are only formal legal changes, without affecting the substance of the premises and the equipment of the station, so it is not worth putting in place records that will make it difficult for entrepreneurs to return to work after a possible check. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u29	Thank you. Mr Szramka replaced the rapporteur of the committee, because instead of asking, he informs what the amendment contains. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Is it true that the Ministry has misled Members by claiming that the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs has changed his negative opinion? It was both misleading here, during the debate in the High House, and misleading at the committee meeting, and it did so until the Ombudsman personally had to come to the next committee meeting and explain that, contrary to what the Ministry claimed, he did not change his mind at all and the opinion on this project and the idea of the ministry is absolutely, categorically negative. I would ask the Ministry's representative to come here and say whether it is true that they misled the House so much that the Ombudsman had to come to the committee meeting and say himself that the opinion is negative and he maintains that opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u31	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz represents the government at this point. Can you kindly answer the Member's question? [[Applause, joy in the hall]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the original position of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs was negative, but we exchanged correspondence and everything was explained. Thank you very much. [[Applause, joy in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u33	The matter is settled. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - 6, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 86d paragraph. 5 applicants shall propose that the declaration referred to in that provision be made by persons entitled to represent the applicant. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Thank you for your attention and I appreciate your concern for the Sejm and our debate, but it is precisely that Members have no idea what they are voting on, in fact they vote on orders. [[Applause]] This amendment, fortunately, will be voted out with the result in favour, because already on the committee we learned that the Law and Justice are in favour of this amendment, surprisingly. It's a miracle. Sometimes it works, which is why it's worth trying, Here to the President a special request: maybe at the end of the vote on this bill, you raise your hand against it. Then the rest will also raise their hands against, because unfortunately most Members have no idea what they are voting on, and it is worth not making bad laws. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for the President of the Party to answer questions. [[But it wasn't a question, it was a suggestion.]] Of course, I can let that happen, because a marshal can do a lot. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But right now, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 195 voted against - 216, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 86h. Point 1 (2) of the applicant proposes to delete point (a). c and e. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - 7, 14 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 86h applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to inform the Members of the Law and Justice that in the previous vote, with the 4th amendment, either they were wrong or the government changed its mind because in the committee the government supported this amendment and now it does not support it. Very strange situation. Maybe it was just a social game to show that you were kind gentlemen and support one amendment so that they could enjoy it. This amendment is in turn intended to clarify the rules. The whole bill is bullshit, it can't be fixed, but maybe it's a little bit of an adjustment, even though we'll be minimally relieved of business. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Then decide whether to give or not.]] [[Why don't you finally get some answers?]] [[We answer all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u37	The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the Minister was using the same trick he used at first reading, I wanted to ask if it was true that when, at first reading, one of the Members asked whether the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. the spokesperson chosen by the Law and Justice, from your environment, whom you should trust in some way, he actually issued a negative opinion on this project - that this project hits Polish entrepreneurs, that the only privileged one was TDT - the Minister came out here and said exactly what he had just said, namely: we sent correspondence to TDT and all this was explained, and then the Ombudsman came to the committee meeting and said that it was not true, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think he's still against this project. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u39	Thank you. In fact, the rapporteur of the committee should refer to what he has said. [[Voices from the hall: Minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was on the committee. [[But the correspondence was between the minister...]] There you go, Mr Bogdan Rzonec. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But tell me the truth.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to confirm that there was indeed a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at the committee's meeting and so he said, as it was just presented. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u41	Minister Chodkiewicz would like to speak. There you go. [[Congratulations to the Minister for his bravery.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to tell you, in a moment, there will be a quote on why the government has taken up this bill. That's because in 2009. The Supreme Board of Control... [[Voice from the room: Ho, ho!]] Wait a minute. [[In the last eight years...]] ...this was confirmed in 2017, stated a reduction in road safety, increased risk to human life and health - all about vehicle control stations - the illegal operation of vehicle control stations, without the required legal certification, the spread of impunity among diagnostics, hiring diagnostics of vehicle inspection stations with valid judgments, allowing vehicles in poor technical condition to move, issuing entries to registration evidence of a technical examination that is not in conformity with the facts. Question to the opposition: What are you defending? Thank you very much. [[We're talking about crimes...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u43	Well, the answer's clear here. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 201, against - 222, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 86j paragraph. 5 applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 405, against - 4, with 15 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 86p paragraph. 13 applicants shall propose that immediate enforcement be granted to the decisions referred to in paragraph. 7 and 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another amendment that can improve this terrible bill. First of all, diagnes should not be thrown, all of them, into one bag, no matter what kind of violation they commit. The automatic rigour of immediate feasibility will make it impossible for the diagnosis to appeal the decision, once it is received, it will immediately be feasible. The Authority may also make a mistake and make a wrong decision, which will later be repealed. And the question is: Will the diagnosis be returned to the lost income and compensated losses that it will incur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u45	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask whether it is true that during the meeting of the committee there was information from the public and that there were written in such a case that these stations, which were controlled by the Supreme Audit Chamber - on the basis of these data, were presented opinions and conclusions - were selected in agreement with the Transport Technical Supervision Authority, which was already interested in preparing this bill at that time. And the second question: Is it true that, in this system, the Minister has not referred to it, that the entity that will benefit from it and prepare the project will be the organizer, controlling it, will be Transport Technical Supervision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u47	To whom is this question, Mr President? [[The Minister's office.]] Minister Chodkiewicz. Mr Chodkiewicz would like to answer the question? Good. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 200 votes against - 219 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 86th paragraph. 11 applicants propose to delete point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 405, against - 3, with 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Time out!]] Before the whole... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman is asking...]] [[With a formal application.]] There's a conclusion... [[Voices from the room: In what mode?]] ...law and justice club for a break. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 25 hours 10 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda. Right now, there's a formal motion for the law and justice club. President Jarosław Kaczyński. There you go. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because that bill that was right now... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...procededed, indeed, raises a lot of doubts, I ask for her to be withdrawn from the agenda. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[You should've done this before.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u49	Thank you very much. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, this conclusion may be made, as I say, to operate or to execute, to make such a decision. [[Mr. Marshal, there must be a government position on this.]] [[The Third Chamber has spoken.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. Please don't get emotional. This is a formal conclusion. [[We're voting.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a formal conclusion.]] The formal request for a break and a photo on the agenda is not the subject of a vote, but of a decision which the Marshal of the Sejm may take after consulting the Senior Convention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And he just took it.]] I am therefore declaring a recess. I'm calling the Senior Convention to the dark living room, [[Applause]] But I'm adjourning until the hour. 12.30, because we're about to have a fee. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 44 hours 12 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that our deliberations are being listened to and looked at by young people from Primary School 33 in Radom. Welcome. [[Applause]] And welcome to the high school of general education in Pisz, Warmia and Mazury. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the third government reading of the draft law on amending the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws, prints No. 2985, 3066 and 3066-A. We return to the agenda items. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Aviation Law Act and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3065. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are proceeding on Air Law, under which the Civil Aviation Authority is burdened with a large range of work, in the field of environmental protection, urban planning. Minister! How will this affect the safety of passengers? The European Union's security agencies advise against doing this, as well as our experts, as this will, however, have a major impact on this. Besides, we know that LOT is bad - strikes, protests, dissatisfaction of workers, and the human factor is very important. However, this affects the safety of passengers. We've had an emergency landing in the States lately, including employee reports, pilots to Homeland Security. Minister! Tell me who's responsible for passenger safety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u51	Thank you very much. Minister Mikołaj Wild, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure. Are you ready? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to the alarming tone of the speech that was just now, we now have a good time in terms of safety in the aviation sector. They serve this, on the one hand, the bill that we are working on today, which is catching up on the many-year arrears in this area and, as far as I know, has received the full support of all parliamentary clubs and, on the other hand, the work that is currently underway at the Ministry of Infrastructure and is aiming to change the formula of the Civil Aviation Authority. So much for explaining. To the rest, I find these questions to be more provocative than requiring a substantive answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u53	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the draft Print Act 3065, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. The vote was 384 against - 1, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Aviation Law Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. I ask Mr Piotr Polak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u54	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, it is my pleasure to present to the High House an additional report on the meeting of the committee in which 10 amendments were examined, which were tabled to the draft law at second reading. Eight of these amendments are recommended by the committee to reject the High House and two, i.e. the 3rd and 6th, adopt, as is the whole of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u55	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3089-A. Third reading. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose to reword point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a very selective implementation of the Directive on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the fight against crime. And quite according to experts, the Ombudsman and even the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicate that it is incompatible with the European Union's rules that exempt all Polish special services from the protection of personal data, regardless of what they do. In this amendment, we propose to fix at least part of this law and include the provisions on the protection of CBA's personal data. Let me remind you that the task of the CBA is to protect the economic interests of the State, not to protect the national security that you are referring to. Minister Brudziński! I would like to ask you why you disregard the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which clearly indicates that this provision is incompatible with European Union law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u57	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. 420 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 225, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Voice from the room: The answer can...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] In the second amendment to the article. 26 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to Minister Brudziński about why the law does not make it necessary to limit individual rights and instead indicates a closed catalogue of data sources that are never available. I ask this because the directive points out that, indeed, there are such conditions for limitation of individual rights, but in so far as and for such a period as the measure concerned is a necessary and proportionate action in a democratic society, with due regard for the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned, i.e. de facto in accordance with the provisions of that Directive, it is not possible to formulate a closed catalogue of data sources from which this information is not made available. I would like to say that our amendment, which we will now vote on, corrects this obvious error and non-compliance with the directive. Please support this amendment and answer [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Brudziński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u59	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 159 voted against - 246, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 46 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 414 against - 6, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 55. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 157, against - 236, with a hold of 22. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. Article 5b (5) (b) 1th Police Act. Amendments 7 and 10 align with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 5, 7 and 10, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 236, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the revised article. The 15th Police Act of the applicant proposes to give a new wording to paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 414 against - 6, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 78 containing amendments to the Central Corruption Bureau Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 158 against - 240, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 84 amending the Act on the protection of classified information. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask Minister Brudziński why you did not propose in the Act provisions that ensure control of data processing in accordance with law, e.g. in terms of the principle of necessity - in other words, whether the services process the personal data of Poles because they are necessary for the exercise of these rights, those rights which have been imposed by law. I must say that as regards the standard of protection against access, i.e. protection against unauthorised access, here we have the appropriate provisions under the Act on the protection of classified information, while citizens after the adoption of this law will not be sure that their data are processed on the basis of appropriate legal conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our amendment corrects this state of affairs, brings the law into line with the directive...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u62	...and I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u63	Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the driver's raises bill, you didn't have a problem reprimanding the vice minister responsible for answering...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u65	Mr President, please refer to the 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u66	I therefore ask the marshal to urge Minister Brudziński to answer questions asked by Members. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u67	Everybody heard. I just want to let you know that according to the rules, the minister can answer, but he doesn't have to answer. [[We appeal.]] Let me remind you that the committee requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 229, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must say that this debate here before the vote, with amendments, is very much like the debate that took place at the committee meeting. Experts, the social side, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ombudsman - all spoke about the fact that this law distortes the idea that was proposed in the directive. The Ministry did not even attempt to establish a relationship, establish communication and a substantive approach to the problems we raised. And so today, despite the questions which were addressed to Minister Brudziński, the Minister refused to answer. Here's the question of why, Minister, you don't want to answer these questions. I must say that we are not in a position to support this project, although we would very much like to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because he should introduce, as I said, the standards of the democratic rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and the High House that the representative of the government and the ministries in the case of this bill is Deputy Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The EU Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of crime prevention, known as the DODO, was adopted on 27 April 2016. The Act implementing it on the ground of Polish law should apply from May this year. Dear Government of PiS! You've been so busy explaining each other's issues that come to light that you couldn't get to work normally and solve the problem in the case of this bill. You missed a consultation with the Supreme Court, missed a consultation with the General Data Protection Officer. You have not taken into account the views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ombudsman. But most importantly, it's all legal. In this proposal, you went beyond the regulation of the directive by a politicised prosecutor. You were gonna make me... Some provisions undermine the basic objective of this directive and some provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] They seem to be completely underprecise.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u71	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u72	We understand the need to apply... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to implement these rules, but not in this formula. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u73	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of... You're asking another question, aren't you? Here you go, Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, do not want to appeal to the past, but it seems to me that from a state point of view, it is worth that Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski give a few sentences of explanation here to the Members of the opposition as to the working mode, as to how, so to speak, the comments which have been made and, above all, the unlawful accusations which have been repeated here many times before. I think that this law is worthy of some such fundamental observations concerning the work and this European regulation being made here, which I strongly urge the Minister to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u75	Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration, will answer. There you go. [[Will he give us an answer?]] He will respond to all of you. There you go. [[It's a setup. As we asked, the Minister was silent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which is the subject of the examination of the High House at third reading, is a mature, well prepared and properly implemented law of EU law. All these doubts which you have been polite in asking questions today have been clarified, resolved in the course of the work of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and during the work of the subcommittee, which has been set up to examine this proposal in detail. Nor can I agree with this argument that we have missed the public consultation. The Ombudsman, as well as the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, made comments to this law at the consultation stage and later at the parliamentary work. All those who wished to do so were given the opportunity to comment both at the stage of government proceedings and at the stage of parliamentary proceedings. Therefore, this allegation is absolutely unfounded. You also asked about the question of ensuring that citizens' rights are respected, the right to privacy after the entry into force of this law. I would like to point out that this law is properly implementing all the regulations that result from the DODO Directive, namely EU law. Control mechanisms have been put in place for the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data concerning the rules for the storage and processing of information of a criminal nature which will be used, processed in connection with the provisions of this Act. Where certain exemptions have been made to the law, it is absolutely in line with those powers which are explicitly provided for by EU legislation for the Member States. And what would I like to add? Still common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u77	Please. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 3089, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 260, against - 8, with 157 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3080. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP? [[There it is, there it is. He's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill supposedly aims to preserve the good image of Poland on the climate summit, but this image does not need to be preserved, it is enough not to ruin it. Let me remind you that this great embarrassment that has been taking place in Katowice for the past two weeks costs Poles at least 252 million, which were taken from the resources provided for environmental protection, among others. To fight the smog. And this bill provides for the 8 million dollars that Prime Minister Szydło has promised for the climate fund for the poorer countries for climate policy. This law changes the fact that you can spend this money without knowing who by means of private law agreements. We didn't get any answers from the committees, anywhere, who you want to give that $8 million to, since you need private law, and if you want to buy that supposedly good image for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u79	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u80	Image doesn't buy, image gets... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u81	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is similar. Indeed, this law is a bit of a legislative bubble which shows that the Polish state does not really have an impact on the supervision of the money which it spends on supposedly important climate improvement issues. But what improvement? One in Elizabeth Bieńkowska's version. I have a question for the applicants, although I know it's a government project. I ask that applicants respond to what money will go to and how they secure the impact of Poland on the supervision of spending of these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u83	Member on behalf of the applicants? The question is for applicants, but I understand that there is no need. Thank you very much. [[The Member is coming, Mr Marshal.]] There's no need, right? Thank you very much. It's about print 3080. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 3080, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 232 voted against - 192, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report by the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. Third reading. It's about print number 3081. The Commission proposes that this proposal be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3081, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 3, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the excise duty law and the Customs Law. Third reading. Print number 3103. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3103, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 423 votes against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The additional report shall be printed No 3098-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, one amendment was tabled which was not approved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u85	Thank you, sir. The Commission, let me remind you, is proposing that the draft Print Act No. 3098 be adopted. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 1 draft law. It's connected to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. I would remind you that the committee requests that these amendments be rejected. The question is asked by Marzena Okła... [[Wood-eater.]] ... Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[After 3 years...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 6 years ago, during the economic crisis, the Civic Platform raised all pensions by PLN 71. Now, in economic times, Law and Justice raises pensions by no less than 70 PLN. We could have been pierced by at least two zlotys or two zlotys. But that's still better, because last year this minimum valorization was just 10 zlotys. In 2015, however, for the first time in history, we introduced a quota-percent valuer mechanism. You're replicating it today, and that's very good. Therefore, we believe that this proven mechanism should apply not only in 2019 but every year, so that Polish pensioners and pensioners do not have a few gold increases, but always have at least a dozen gold increases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u87	Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go. And said Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[You put the letters together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about valorization. She spoke about the valorisation carried out by the Civic Platform, changing the rules completely, and it was precisely about reducing expenditure from the state budget, from the Social Insurance Fund. Exactly the state budget was meant to reduce the valorisation for those who have higher pensions. [[Is that a question?]] [[Lie!]] The question to the Minister: What will the situation be like at the moment? Will anyone in connection with this bill have a lower valorization than the bill says? Isn't it that in order to implement this law, a large amount of resources must be added from the state budget? How much will be added from the state budget to carry out this higher valorisation of pensions and pensions next year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u89	These questions will be answered by the family minister Elizabeth Rafalska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The option that we are proposing is the quota-percent increase in pension benefits is absolutely the most favourable solution we have applied so far. To this system that would be... [[He would be.]] ...if we raise pension benefits according to index 3.26, we add almost PLN 1.5 billion. The example of valorisation you cited is an example of purely quota valorisation, where some pensioners simply lost. We're talking about the 2012 valorization. [[It was getting more.]] Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, you saved exactly PLN 360 million on this system. The amount that was planned at the time was an unexploited amount. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] On what we propose, no group of pensioners, I stress: nothing, nothing is lost. Up to the amount of PLN 2147 retirees gain higher growth than the statutory one, while the rest of pensioners, those who have slightly higher benefits, but also longer work placements, receive full statutory valorization. I'm sure it's a system that hasn't been applied so far. This is our modification, our solution. This is not a system in which we save for valorization. The lowest benefit, or minimum pension, will increase by 6,8% So it wouldn't be as much as it would if it were a quota value. Minimum pension, family pension and social pension will be PLN 1100. How much did they amount to after your government in 2015? 880 PLN. This is an increase in the minimum pension by almost 1/4, so do not compare that system to what we propose. This is the best mechanism in terms of the values used so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u91	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 202 voted against - 224 and 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question will be asked by Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I am very pleased that you rightly pointed out that the mechanism that was introduced in 2015 was the best. Today you are introducing exactly what was applied in 2015. [[Applause]] But I have another question: Isn't the amount of 70 PLN too low in the face of all the increases you have paid to Poles? [[Applause]] [[We're making a percentage increase.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Food, medicine, bills are already expensive. They're still expensive. Seniors today have the hardest situation, and the government doesn't really want to help them. Ladies and gentlemen, this valorization will eat inflation because it's very high, everything is more expensive. Where is the promised tax-free amount of PLN 8000? The Act abolishing the pension PIT tax is in the Sejm. Such solutions would be a real increase in pensions that our seniors are waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u93	Thank you. Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: She hasn't apologized yet.]] You apologize for the puddle, Minister Tobiszowski. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! 300,000. Seniors live on the verge of existence. That's 300,000. people who look at their purses every day and look for money, whether to spend it on food, rehabilitation or medication. Seniors are the group of Poles who have been depleting the most during the year. Retired people have the biggest debts in Poland: 7.3 billion PLN. The main reason for borrowing loans is medical expenses. Hence my question: What are you going to do about this situation that so many people live on the border of poverty, there is nothing to eat, there is nothing to live for, there is no place to live, there is no place to live? On the other hand, the Social Security Office calculated that within 5 years as many as 340 billion PLN could be missing pensions and pensions. What's the solution here, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about amending the Pension Act, not everything. We're voting. Which one of you... [[Minister Rafalska.]] Minister Elżbieta Rafalska wants to answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've just been sharing a petticoat. I don't think you're gonna shake your hand and vote for this valorization... [[The voice from the room: Of course, it's our idea.]] ...because you know very well that recently there were advantages in the amount of 5 PLN, 6 PLN and 7 PLN. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: A year ago it was.]] You are quoting the 2015 valorization. This was a valorization of 36 PLN. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? 70 PLN is more than 36 PLN or 5 PLN. [[But there was a deflation.]] [[There's been a setback.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, for the valorization in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 the Government of Law and Justice will allocate a total of PLN 17 600 million. [[Applause]] It's not a small amount. But remember what you did to Polish pensioners. You've extended their retirement age and equalized their retirement age to women. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[...the pensioner's wallet.]] And you know, when we brought back the retirement age, it turned out that 57% pensioners who have benefited from the restored retirement age were people without benefits, people excluded from the labour market, [[Applause]] People who didn't have anything to live on? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Lie! More lies!]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] And you didn't remember that. And today you dress up on the eve of Christmas Eve, you dress up in the feathers of those who defend pensioners. And you extended their retirement age and gave them such valorization. [[Applause]] Vote for it because it's the right thing to do. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[How can you lie like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u97	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3098 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 6, no one abstained. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2015 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this report to be adopted. The question is asked by Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 is a relatively new legal act that has introduced many new solutions. Therefore, an article was introduced during the work on this law. 6, which was intended to monitor the implementation of these provisions, namely Article. 6 obliges the Council of Ministers to submit an annual report on the implementation of the law to the Sejm and the Senate by 30 September. Mr. Marshal! What important reasons have caused that the article has not been implemented for 2 years. 6 of this bill? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u99	Thank you. The question is asked by Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Minister! Minister! Has the Civic Platform forgotten that this is a government report on their activities and proposes to vote against? [[Applause]] [[That's not true, that's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u101	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of this proposal... [[Answer!]] [[We're waiting for answers.]] Ma'am, I see you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I can hear you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And I'm addressing you under Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a. Stop those wrong screams. Who among you is in favour of the request for rejection of print report 938, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 154 voted against - 265, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We are returning to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare under the age of 3 in 2016 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm accepted the proposal. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! It's been a year, and it's less than... [[But we voted...]] ...and the other two years I was talking about were prepared by your minister. But that's not what I wanted to ask. 7 years of operation of the law. One amendment aimed, of course, at increasing the number of childcare facilities for nursery children. And I'm sure it will increase that amount. It's only a pity that at the expense of the children, because you've definitely worsened the conditions of the children's stay in nurserys and children's clubs. That's why I have a question for the Minister. Why didn't you take into account the comments and proposals that were made during the committee's work on forms such as daycare or pre-school crèches that would certainly improve the situation, especially in rural areas where there are no such facilities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or in small towns? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u103	Thank you. The Member does not report. Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the report in print 1894, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 158 votes against, 266 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2017 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. This report has also been asked to be rejected in the discussion and I will put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. The question is asked by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2017 Poland died by 3.7%... This means 405,6 thousand. Poles. And the question is: How was this most sensitive group protected from smog? How many facilities have antismog purifiers been purchased? How many masks did they buy? Was that even taken care of? Question two: Who carried out health checks on these children, as well as those who took care of those children under the age of 3? Will it not be so that once again Poland will get a fossil of the year, as it got at COP24 for lack of care for air cleanliness and really for the life and health of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Not about that.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What do you mean not about it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u105	Thank you. Okay, so we're not referring to the question. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Or maybe it's a shame, maybe it's worth it.]] I think it's wider, it goes beyond the scope of the report. We're voting. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, it's going, so it's going, it's understandable. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the request for rejection of print report 2940, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 153 votes against, 267 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal, i.e. it took note of the report. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future (prints No. 2960, 3063 and 3063-A) - third reading. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee of Andrzej Gawron to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future, print no. 2960. In the second reading, the Civic Platform Club submitted a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and the Modern Club submitted three amendments to the contents of the Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development met at its meeting on 11 December. After examining the application for rejection, he requests that the application be rejected. Following consideration of the amendments tabled by the Modern Club, it requests the adoption of the 1st amendment, the rejection of the 2nd amendment and the 3rd amendment, the club withdrew. Of course, the committee calls for the bill to be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u107	Thank you. The amendments mentioned will be voted first. Let me remind you, it's a print number 3063. First of all, we are voting on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that there is a fourth industrial revolution in the world, no one is questioning that these companies and economies will win, which can use to increase productivity, competitiveness of the latest achievements in the field of teleinformation, artificial intelligence or human-machine telecommunications. That's for sure. But will the establishment of a future industry platform bring us closer to this goal? No. I am convinced that the spending from the state budget every year 20 million and in 10 years' time 236 million on so-called. soft training, soft techniques, will certainly not bring us closer to this goal. When I look at the process of setting up boards or field offices, I see that it will be more useful to strengthen the PiS team in the field and in the country than to bring the Polish economy closer to... [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u109	Thank you, Member. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor. No. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 192 votes against - 229, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 1 paragraph 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I would like to congratulate you on such a beautiful propaganda stop. I hope that the members of the government will be more willing to answer the more difficult questions of the opposition. On the other hand, with regard to this 1st amendment, the Government of Law and Justice has proved to the Poles and Poles for the past 3 years that it does not love NGOs and is not in favour of civil society. We therefore considered that it would be good in this amendment to recommend if this foundation were to be set up to spend a lot of time working with non-governmental organisations. We therefore very much ask that this amendment be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u111	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 176, against - 227, the 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) of the proposal suggests that the experience referred to in that provision should be 5 years. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we suggested that we extend the period of professional experience for a candidate for a board member of this foundation, so that this is, as in the case of the board of foundations, a requirement of 5 years of experience. It seems logical for those responsible for spending such large sums to be experienced. Therefore, we ask you very much to accept this amendment, this requirement of 5-year professional experience for members of the Board of Directors of the Foundation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u113	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 173, against - 227, halted 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole thing. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have long wondered whether we could support this law, because, as far as willingness and certain principles are concerned, which are contained there to achieve the goal, this is the right direction. However, when it comes to execution - not so much. We have a very bad experience when it comes to a national foundation where money is wasted. That's why we thought that creating another state foundation, when the same things can be done, working with institutions, NGOs, universities, when it can also be done in this way... We felt that, in order not to duplicate existences, not to duplicate a situation in which money is leaking out of the budget for a good cause and are out of control of the Sejm, we should vote against this law. We know that these actions are going in the right direction, but we need to do this in a different way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u115	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Foundation of the Future Industry Platform assumes, quote: support for digital transformation in processes, products and business models using the latest achievements in automation, artificial intelligence, ICT and communication between machines and people. Yes, we are in favour of industry 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 and everyone else, but in recent years you have created several institutes, institutions and God knows what else, which have proved that they are not suitable for anything and that Poles have not benefited from it. Therefore, using artificial intelligence, automation, ICT and communication between machines and humans, including historical data, we have received an answer that this foundation will not help anyone. Question: "Who will be the president of this foundation?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u117	I don't know if anyone can answer that question right now. It's still a bill, not... [[What do you mean, not yet?]] [[But it's been settled for a long time.]] There's no bill yet, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near Freedom, has a voice and they are effective. [[PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u118	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Circle of Freedom and Effective. The Prime Minister has just admitted to the citizens that half of their wages are left in their pockets thanks to gracious politicians. Today, we have an answer to what the other half of the salary you take from the state as politicians is going to implement the ideology of stagism, which was led by the Civic Platform government, and now the government of Law and Justice is guided by the creation of hundreds, thousands of new institutions, with hundreds, thousands of new jobs for party activists. This isn't the way. No state institution will solve the problems of Poles. The solution to the problems of Poles is to leave not 50%, but 90% their earnings in their own pockets and this is what the Poles expect from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u119	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has the floor. [[Finally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u120	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Beautiful name, noble goals. That's what happened. Institute of Freedom, Polish National Foundation - huge money, high salaries, incompetent people. It's already been done. [[To the Platforms, to the Platforms.]] We don't need these experiments. We don't want a repeat of what happened. This bill we say firmly: no. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Because it's just another transfer of money from the state budget and from the Treasury companies. [[Applause]] [[Everyone thinks after themselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u121	Mr Marcin Ociepa, Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, will respond to this bold statement. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Nitras, please keep your emotions quiet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am sad to say that I think the Polish Parliament is the only one in which the issue of the fourth industrial revolution, the support of the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs in entering... [[Guys, guys.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...in being the leader of technological transformation in the world is the subject of political ideology. Ladies and gentlemen! The law was created in dialogue with entrepreneurs, as a result of their expectations of support for this important process. This is particularly the case for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have huge resources, and this support is expected. Their transformation is a prerequisite for Poland's success, on which we should all care. We are as a government, ladies and gentlemen, consistent. Following the adoption of the Constitution for Business, the Constitution for Science, the Laws on Innovation, the relief for R &amp; D, we move on to the consolidation phase of all these tools of support for entrepreneurs so that we can succeed. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we cannot afford the passiveness that you propose in these voices, therefore I kindly ask for the support of the bill, because the world will not wait for us, will not wait for us to stop ideologizing a simple matter, and this is the success of Polish entrepreneurs, which will be the success of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But not by bureaucrats.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u123	There you go. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3063 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 227 voted against - 195, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be printing No 3095-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs an additional report on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws, prints No 3088, 3095 and 3095-A. The Sejm at its 74th meeting on 13 December 2018 in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3095 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 4 December 2018, requests that amendments 1, 2 and 3 be rejected and amendments 3, 4 and be adopted. [[Voice from the room: 4th.]] [[Voice from the room: I think something's wrong.]] Excuse me. The Commission proposes that amendments 4, 5 and 6 be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! This law implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2017 by 14 laws. This sentence, generally speaking, demands an increase in the level of protection of the citizen's personal rights and his freedom. In view of the doubts raised at committee meetings, whether this is a good time or a bad time, I would like to apologize from this place very warmly to all those who for 21 years have not seen these regulations introduced in 14 laws, and also to thank all those who, in the 21st year of the Constitution, decided to strengthen these rights, to raise their level and personal rights and to introduce civil liberties into laws. I would like to ask you to accept this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u125	Thank you, Member. I'd like to remind you that this is about print number 3095. We will vote first on the amendments and the minority proposal. In the 1st amendment to the amended article. The 12th Law on Municipal Guards proposes to give a new wording to paragraph 1. 1c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority's proposal unobtrusive. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I think we should apologize for the three years and the previous two years because you had the opportunity and did not do so, Member. On the other hand, Mr Marshal, Amendment No 1 was tabled by us at the Sejm meeting in case the High House fails to accept the minority proposal No 1 which, in our opinion, reflects the discussion on the committee and our opinion better, and it is moving further, so we should vote on it first, but that we are to vote on it in the second vote... I'd like to make a better amendment, so on behalf of the club, I withdraw our amendment number one. On the other hand, I would like to stress that Amendments 2 and 3 which are also tabled increase the level of protection of civil rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the appropriate level. I'm asking you to accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u127	Yes, so we are announcing that Amendment 1 has been withdrawn. In the minority's request for a revised Article. The 12th Municipal Guards Act proposes that in paragraph 12. 1c delete point 3. Questions are raised by Members. Member of Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law almost automatically transfers the rules on searches and personal checks from the regulations and regulations of the law. Unfortunately, the work on this law was carried out without public consultation, without any reflection on whether these powers that are in force today are still needed by the services. I'd like to remind you what this article is about, because... Do you really want the municipal guard to have the right to, quote: check the mouth, nose, ears and hair of the controlled person, and the checking operations could be done visually or manually? This amendment we want to delete because we believe that the municipal and municipal guards should not have such far-reaching powers that interfere with our rights and personal freedoms. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Unbelievable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u129	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Józwiak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Dress up - Navy.]] [[Voice from the room: We can't afford it.]] This is a point where we can actually lean over one thing. What is the town guard known for? You may well know: from the rolling up of the sky, from the prosecution of bribery or from pensioners selling parsley or strawberries, or until recently from the prosecution of drivers, looting them on the roads and adding them to the budget to some of the local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, we are really transferring all regulations and powers from the vending machine to the municipal guard, among others. to very precise, detailed controls, which concern our freedom, very intimate things. Do we really need such mechanisms or such powers to equip the municipal guards? Ladies and gentlemen, can't the police do this? You have a chance, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this amendment and eliminate it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u131	Thank you. I would ask you Members, because it is not for you, sir, but in the right outfit to come to the vote. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] The Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, asks for the floor. What kind of outfit is that, I'll explain it to you in writing. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There's no ad vocem. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that by the votes of the Civic Platform and PSL, the municipal guards in 2009 were granted unlimited rights to carry out personal checks on citizens. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Today, we are correcting this manifest error that took place in 2009, and we are adapting the provisions of the Act to the constitutional standard requirement. This provision, which you have asked for, is substantive. A municipal guard should have legal authority to check the contents of his mouth, especially in circumstances where the person being detained is intoxicated... [[Voice from the room: Snorting his nose.]] ...and make sure he doesn't choke on something, he won't choke on it. [[Voice from the room: Take a deeper look.]] It is a simple, pragmatic operation carried out worldwide by officers who make arrests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u133	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 221, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 2nd amendment to the amended article. The 12th Law on Municipal Guards proposes to give a new wording to paragraph 1. 1d. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 195, against - 222, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the amended article. The 12th Law on Municipal Guards proposes to give a new wording to paragraph 1. 1i. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. [[It's not just the MPs who borrow it, it's the Navy.]] Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 220, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[You can borrow the mail, and you can borrow the jacket.]] [[Voice from the room: Show yourself.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] What happened? It's good to have a quick reflex. [[Let me borrow your tie.]] In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 15. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] 415 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 13, with 13 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 15a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - one, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 16. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If it wasn't for the mess at the M.E.A.... [[What are you telling me?]] ...we could re-schedule this bill in a way consistent with the art of legislation, and that's how we worked in chaos. These are not rules of order, this law concerns the freedom of citizens and our personal rights and should, as a rule, have a 14-day vacathio legis. In order to avoid lawlessness, the rules must enter into force before 23 December, so the government first dropped responsibility on the committee, now on the High House and is putting the Senate and the President against the wall. Minister Brudziński! Wasn't it easier to admit negligence, or wasn't it easier to say that you missed that judgment of the Constitutional Court than to create an appearance of the rule of law? We would understand this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, one way or another, we have to make a bill, there's no way out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 251, 26 - against, 153 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole thing. There are questions. [[Will there be answers?]] Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u136	Mr. Marshal, it's exactly what you say. We must adopt this law today, because if we do not accept it, on December 23rd, in 9 days, all enforcement acts concerning searches and personal checks will be lost. Police, Border Guard, Homeland Security and all other services will not be allowed to carry out personal checks on citizens... [[Enjoy it.]] ...personal checks and searches with citizens. Minister, what have you been doing this year? Why have you brought about such a situation that nine days before the deadline for disappearing from the legal order of these provisions we must now rescue you? [[You can vote against it.]] Minister, you have wasted one year, one year on civil rights debate and on improving the situation related to the respect of civil rights by the service, but during this year you have also exposed the lack of the possibility of properly carrying out tasks of all Polish uniformed services. Minister, where have you been for a year? [[Applause]] [[Oh, there you go, sir. It's always bad.]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u137	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Where have you been, Minister?]] [[Minister of Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński: Here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I regret to say that the current Polish government and parliament are probably the only ones in Europe who treat citizens' rights as a fifth wheel, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Go to France.]] The law concerns the search and personal inspection and, I must say, therefore, the dignity of the citizen, while the constitution states that it is inviolable, and its protection and respect is the responsibility of the public authorities, i.e. the government and the parliament as well. And I must say that these constitutional provisions absolutely don't condone what you do, what you do, what Law and Justice do. This is already the second law, which comes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which treats issues of civil rights, human rights with nonchalance, for the alibi. These laws are being posted to an alibi just to do something there, because deadlines are running out. I think when we talk about constitutional rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has no right of any government or parliament to do this for an alibi.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u139	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u140	We cannot support this project. [[Applause]] [[Minister of Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński: Mr Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u141	Thank you. Now, wait a minute. Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Józwiak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! [[Voice from the room: What about the tie?]] I think the dress code is right now, although I don't know any recipe that says what outfit I should be wearing here, and my outfit, ladies and gentlemen, is adapted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] to what style of the bill we've dealt with. I didn't find the kitty because I'd dress like that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Another tie.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You gave two days for a serious bill, two days for a kneecap, there was no chance of getting to know anything. This is a package of amendments that the government prepared at night, from one day to another, between the first and the second reading, and which was delivered to us 15 minutes before the committee meeting or actually during... during the break at the committee meeting so that we could get acquainted with them. Luckily, the committee threw those amendments in the garbage can. But, ladies and gentlemen, what's the bill if the government has made so many amendments that haven't even been made? Really consider whether this is the way to do it. It's an important bill, but you can't do it that way. Really, it's a legislative disgrace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Change your pants.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u143	The Minister of the Interior, Joachim Brudziński, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions, two extremely important votes, so I would like to address them. The main issue here is whether the accusations were made by representatives of opposition clubs, regarding the sacred principle of constitutional rights and civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this work lasted so long is, among other things. result, the fruit of the concern of the rule of law and justice over constitutional civil rights [[Applause]] He's leaning. And if you... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...in this case you have doubts, I recommend, really worth it, follow, like citizens' rights, e.g. Mr. Józef Grzyb, treats the Polish Police, and like the law... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...citizens are treated today, for example, with regard to high school students, school pupils by what a democratic state of our neighbours, by France. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[With a formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u145	Thank you. No, no. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3095, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 238 against - 13, with 181 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3057-A. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 13 December, the Energy and Treasury Commission took note of the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting Amendment No 1, the adoption of Amendments Nos 2 and 3 - these are specific amendments - and the adoption of Amendment No 4 amending the date of entry into force of the Act. In addition, it recommends that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u147	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 3057 print. The amendments that we have received in the additional report will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 61a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I never imagined that I would have to defend Prime Minister Morawiecki from my own political background. [[Oh, bravo!]] Here's an hour. 11 of this speaker said very seriously: there will be no increase in energy prices. Applause on this side. Meanwhile, what's going on? About an hour. 23 we read in the project that there will be a cogeneration fee, which every month will increase the price of energy by 2.8 PLN, according to OSR calculations, which will result in an increase of 34 PLN per year. [[Yes, sir.]] There you go. What a space between hours. 11 a.m. 23? [[Applause]] What happened? Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just that. The power charge and the turbulence which are with Minister Tchórzewski all the time, and the lack of an answer, which will actually be in 2019. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Will there be an increase in energy prices, or will there not be an increase in energy prices? It will be. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Unfortunately, there will be armageddon, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: There will be no.]] ...energy. Energy Armageddon. [[Applause]] And you... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u149	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u150	...because you haven't done three years... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u151	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 228, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 63. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Andrzej Czerwinski raises a question. Member Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u152	High Izbo! Dear Minister, Cogeneration is a good thing, and everyone knows it if it's well-informed. It leads to growth. efficiency up to 95% And he's funding himself. What do we have? We have a selectively treated law that concerns dozens of producers who locally have a risk-free business. And my question to the president. Mr. President, we're talking about an article. 63, that's a question for you. In this article, you will see that anyone who is connected to a transmission network, distribution network or directly to a generation will pay a cogeneration fee. How does this apply to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday? I mean, it's obvious that it's playing you and the citizens. Price [[♪ The bell ♪]] These amendments are agreed to be higher. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u153	Thank you. I kindly inform you that at this point the Deputy Minister of Energy Tomasz Dąbrowski represents the government. Did you want to speak? [[Let him explain himself.]] Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski, Deputy Minister of Energy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here is the information that is misleading. Well, the cogeneration fee, which is included in this project, is the part of the cost of the system that will be visible today, i.e. after the introduction of this provision will be visible. Today, everyone bears the cost of this system, only 10 times as much as they will have to bear after these provisions have been introduced. In other words... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...what today costs 1.5 billion, from next year will cost the audience 200 million. And that is the difference that will be due to the introduction of this system. [[Voice from the room: There is a reduction in energy prices.]] [[That's not true.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u155	So it's popular to say there's going to be reductions. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Corrigendum.]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 262 voted against - 158 and 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 97 amending the Renewable Energy Act, the applicant proposes to add an article. 93a in this bill. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. [[Rzeczynski signed up for questions.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Question.]] Don't yell, because then... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[There's been a call.]] 424 Members voted. The vote was 246 against 141 and 37 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 111 applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u156	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm sorry to straighten out what our official once said, because I understand the situation he's in. But, ladies and gentlemen, the obvious issues cannot be explained. Every citizen in the form of a Christmas present will receive a fixed fee in the bill. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Even if he didn't use any energy at all... [[Disgraceful!]] ...if all the receivers were disconnected... [[Scandal!]] ...will pay at least 60% What he's been paying so far... [[Voice from the room: Now he's paying too.]] ...plus this cogeneration fee, which today's bill makes a new addition to the bill. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Right!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u157	Minister Dąbrowski? Again. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the room: There will be a reduction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the OSR of the law it is described exactly what size these are. Firstly, it is not a fixed fee, it is a consumption-dependent fee. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the hall: Whatever you call it.]] Secondly, at the moment this fee will be shown, and today it is stuck, it is included in the price of energy and it is not visible. On the other hand, they are shown in the OSR calculations to prove how much today's system costs. After these provisions, the recipients will pay a total of 10 times less for the cost of cogeneration support. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u159	Thank you. The matter is clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Have you read this?]] 430 Members voted. 245 voted against - 176, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole thing. Before the whole question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Woźniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[Voices from the hall: Nowak! Nowak!]] Oh, sorry, Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In 2018, the system about which the Minister was gracious was abolished. To inform us, and in addition abolished in this way, that for 3 years we have been overpaying in our accounts, by paying a fee that does not really help cogeneration installations, because they functioned peacefully without this surcharge. Meanwhile, the introduction of this law will cause us to move on with new accounts and move on with a new payment to each account. According to the OSR, this is PLN 2.8 per month. Then change the OSR, change the calculations and change the whole bill. So no matter what you do, you raise your bills on 1 January 2019 and you raise it, although we do not know at the moment whether it is right, since the Minister of Energy claims that energy companies have 1 billion PLN of savings. I don't see why [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are to believe that we as citizens must bear further costs if there is a surplus in energy companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u161	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the act as a whole, a question must be asked at all about the energy policy of the Polish state, this policy, which after 3 years is characterized by the following facts: the atom lies, coal lies, because more and more we import it from Russia, instead of extracting in Poland, the climate package of the European Union has not been declared. The truth is that we have drastic increases, the costs of which are either passed on to citizens and businesses or to the state budget, because the European Union's climate policy is directly affecting the production of coal energy. And now there are two options: either to eliminate coal as a source of electricity or to denounce the climate package of the European Union. And that's what we have to do. I strongly urge the government to do this, because otherwise we are really going to collapse in Polish energy in the coming years, which already costs its budget next year. [[Applause]] [[Jump in the chimney. It's the nicest place there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u163	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like someone to come out and finally tell the Poles what gift they will get for Christmas, because I don't think they'll know what happens to energy prices next year. Mr. Marshal says there will be reductions, Mr. Prime Minister says there will be no changes, there will be no increases, the Minister of Energy says there will be increases. Make up your mind. And the question is absolutely right for the President, because the President decides everything - today he decided what the technical reviews should look like - so it seems that... [[But that's good.]] ...it's right for the president to come in here and tell us if there's gonna be a raise or if there's not gonna be how much electricity we're gonna pay. Mr. President, come in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u165	This is not a humorous matter, Mr President. This is serious. Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: He's not the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u166	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: New Chairman.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the representative of the Ministry of Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, as stated yesterday at the meeting of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, the RES levy on cogeneration is included in the electricity bill. But I have another question. If she, ladies and gentlemen, ends in 2018... [[Voice from the room: But not from today.]] I know that you, ladies and gentlemen, would like her to still be as tall as she was in your rule, but please tell me... [[Voice from the room: Not from today.]] ...one, and here I would ask for information from the Ministry: How is it that you charge high fees... [[Voice from the room: Ends this year.]] ...and still about 85% heat, which is supplied in Poland, only 20% meet energy-efficient criteria, only every fifth source from 85% Test subjects? What is it like to take care of the environment and energy efficiency? We're gonna change that... [[Voice from the room: You don't know what you're talking about.]] ...less cost and better. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Return the overpayment for these three years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u167	Minister Dąbrowski wants to answer? Tomasz Dąbrowski, Deputy Minister of Energy. There you go. [[Another president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of the fee itself comes back all the time. I would like to remind you that yesterday at the committee meeting, the Civic Platform asked for the extension of the current system. Amendment one... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...from a report that was rejected, either aimed at making the support system to be destroyed so that it could not function at all, because if it did not have the ability to function, it would not work, or to increase heat prices for other consumers, mainly in the part that concerns industry. The alternative could be not to support this at all, but this in turn would increase the cost of heat for all consumers. So this is the choice between something irrational and what is rational, what is proposed in a government project. As regards policy issues, this has been shown by the Ministry of Energy in the directions in which the energy sector in Poland will be going. We have shown the most rational choices that can be made in this respect, also in terms of cost, so that in the future it will burden the audience, not only today but also in the future. As for energy prices, all the measures that are being taken are taken so that the price of energy does not increase. So the vote for this project This is a vote for this. Either the recipients will pay 10 times less than they pay today to support the cogeneration system or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u169	We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3057, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 233, against - 196, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Foreign Service and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents (prints Nos 3102 and 3105). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by two committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission, on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Foreign Service and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and on the content of these documents. This morning, the two committees gathered and recommended unanimously, without objection, that all four amendments be adopted, which the Senate had proposed. These are specific and editorial amendments. I recommend that all these amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You convinced us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u171	Thank you, Member. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in the case of this printing. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. In the first amendment to Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Foreign Service of the Senate in Art. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 proposes foreign terms and replace foreign words, including. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. In - 8, against - 419, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. It was against 423 for - 2, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. Against -423, 1 - for, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Senate proposes editing changes. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. In -1, against -422, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau for changes in the composition of the secretaries of the Sejm (print No 3094). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for amendments to the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the proposal for changes in print No 3094 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 406, against -5, holding down 6. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the composition of the Sejm's secretaries. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 3104). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3104, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -404, against -2, the 12. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 10 hours 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 ……]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2019 (prints 2864 and 3021). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] And your MPs, please move the talks to the crouches. [[About energy, Your Marshal.]] [['Cause it's cold.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance on the Work on the Draft Budget Law for 2019, Seym Printing No 2864 and 3021. On 27 September this year. The government of the Republic of Poland forwarded the draft budget for 2019 to the Sejm. The first reading of this project took place on 4 October. The draft budget law was examined by the Committee on Public Finances in accordance with the timetable adopted by the Sejm Bureau. The result of this work is a report in print No 3021 with 329 minority proposals attached. State budget. In the draft budget submitted to the Sejm for 2019 the government adopted revenue of PLN 387 600 million. That's 5.5% higher. in relation to the expected implementation of 2018 At the same time, the forecast assumes an increase in tax revenue by 5.6%. The increase in budgetary revenue will mainly be influenced by favourable macroeconomic factors and measures to rebuild the stream of tax revenue and to seal the tax system. These activities include: Introduction of the so-called the split payment mechanism, the introduction of a law amending certain laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, the start of the implementation of the online cash register system, the introduction of the obligation to report tax schemes, the development of the road and rail transport monitoring system. State budget expenditure for 2019 has been established on the basis of the so-called. the expenditure rule contained in Article. 112a Public Finance Act. According to it, an expenditure limit of PLN 416 100 million was planned, i.e. an increase of PLN 18.9 billion, i.e. 4,8% compared to the level adopted in the 2018 Budget Act. Thus, the share of expenditure in GDP will be 18.6% versus 18.9% in 2018 The Government's draft budget law for 2019 provided funds, inter alia. for the financing of the 500+ programme, for the implementation of the government's programme, good start, for the valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March 2019 with a valorisation rate of 103,26% , on the increase in salaries in the state budget area due to the adoption of the average annual wage growth rate as a general rule of 102.3%, on the increase in salaries of teachers employed in schools and educational establishments led by ministers and the average salaries of teachers at the various grades of vocational promotion employed in schools and subsidised establishments by 5% from 1 January 2019, on the increase of expenditure in higher education and science and other areas concerning, inter alia, protection of health, national defence, housing or technical infrastructure. In summary, it is worth noting that the 2019 draft budget will reflect the implementation of government priorities and electoral commitments of Law and Justice. It will provide funding for the functions of the State while maintaining the sustainability of public finances. The characteristics of the amendments to the draft budget law for 2019: a total of 442 amendments were tabled, including four related to the text section. Among the amendments concerning the State budget, 190 amendments concerned the revenue of the State budget set out in Annex 1 and indicated the need to raise tax revenue, mainly from the tax on goods and services, in order to finance specific expenditure. 244 amendments related to the expenditure of the State budget included in Annex 2. These were mainly amendments reducing certain expenditure to finance the expenditure identified by the applicants. The four amendments concerned amendments to the other annexes. The Commission did not accept 411 amendments, the vast majority of which were again tabled as minority proposals. The Committee on Public Finances, after considering the draft budget law for 2019, together with the positions forwarded by the competent committees and having received an opinion on compliance with European Union law, requests the adoption of the attached draft budget law for 2019. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u173	Thank you. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 114 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Before you reach us, let us welcome the students from the district of Człochowski from the municipalities: Czarne, Debrzno, Rzeżenica, Przechlewo, Cłuchów. They're sitting at the gallery watching the proceedings. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u174	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft budget law for 2019. The state budget for 2019 is adopted at an exceptional time, favourable to Poland. Stable public finances, high growth rates, a reduction in public debt and the lowest level of unemployment in recent years are these encouraging factors. The 2019 budget is another progressive budget for revenue and expenditure at the time of the rule of law and justice, while at the same time a strong reduction in the budget deficit. General government debt decline, as defined by the European Union, from 54.2% in 2016 to 49,2% in 2018, i.e. by 5 percentage points, is a major success of the government. The year 2018 will close with the lowest government deficit in history and the budget deficit will, according to the forecast, be more than 50% lower than the budget plan. [[Lie!]] In the last 3 years there has been a strong reduction of the general government deficit of 2,7% in 2015 up to a forecast level of 0.9% This year. This was accompanied by increasing tax revenues. In 2017, tax revenue increased by more than PLN 40 billion, including VAT revenue increased by PLN 30 billion. In each quarter of this year, the gross domestic product grew at a rate of more than 5%. Tax revenues from PIT and CIT have increased by countering aggressive tax optimization, introducing a single control package, fuel package and STIR and SENT systems. In the 2018 budget, a record amount of PLN 24 billion for social purposes is planned for the 500+ family programme. 9 billion PLN is the cost of reducing the retirement age, and over 9 billion PLN has been allocated by the government to the Polish National Railways. Similar expenditure shall appear in the 2019 budget. This level of expenditure was possible by systematically reducing the VAT gap from 24.3% in 2015 to 14% in 2017. VAT receipts have increased in 3 years of the rule of law and justice from PLN 123 billion in 2015 to PLN 167 billion in 2017, and in 2019 we are planning a VAT impact of PLN 180 billion. The revenue from PIT - from PLN 83 billion in 2015 to the planned amount of PLN 112.4 billion in 2018. The income from CIT increased from PLN 32.9 billion in 2015 to PLN 43.5 billion planned in the budget of this year. The rise in tax revenue was accompanied by a decrease in the number of tax controls from 86 000. in 2014 up to 31.5 thousand in 2017. The planned number of checks this year is 12,000. Control efficiency increased from 77% in 2014 to 88% planned in 2018. A positive phenomenon of increasing the wealth of Poles is the fact of buying fiscal savings bonds for more than PLN 1 billion, exactly PLN 1.2 billion. The four-year inflation-indexed bonds and 3-month and 2-year fixed-rate bonds were most interested. In 2018, the government introduced facilitations for small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing CIT from 19% to 15% and speed up the increase in excess of VAT input over due. Incentives have been extended in income taxes for R &amp; D activities and support for company innovation. It goes on, among other things. preferential taxation of income generated by intellectual property rights, so-called I.P. Box's relief. The new 5-percent CIT rate, i.e. the new IP Box relief, is an incentive to undertake research and development activities and commercialise the results of research and computer programs. In 2019 the Act on Employee Capital Plans will enter into force. PPK is Poland's first modern, comprehensive long-term, completely private and additional savings programme, which is co-created and co-financed by the state, employers and employees. [[No administration.]] In 2019 several million Poles will not have to submit annual PIT settlements due to the introduction of your e-PIT programme. As of 25 November 2018, a new tax exemption from inheritances and donations began to apply. It concerns the acquisition or participation of an undertaking of a natural person by inheritance or recovery. This release includes among others. heirs of an enterprise of a natural person outside the circle of loved ones. The good economic and financial situation of Poland caused global rating agencies to increase their ratings for Poland. The S&P Global Ratings Agency increased the rating of the Polish creditworthiness from BBB+ to A-. The rating outlook has been changed from positive to stable. This agency recognised fiscal policy as a strong credit side of Poland. Fitch Ratings also confirmed the long-term rating of Poland in foreign currency at level A-. An even higher rating was given by Moodys, which was awarded by the Polish agency A2. The European Commission has significantly increased the growth forecast for many countries of the European Union, including Poland. Poland is one of the eight countries for which it raised growth forecasts in 2018. For the whole of the European Union in 2018, the European Commission is forecasting a decline in economic growth from 2.3% to 2.1% , and in 2019 - from 2% to 1.9%. In the case of Poland, the European Commission raised the forecast from 4.3% to 4.8%. Poland is in the three fastest developing countries of the European Union. The International Monetary Fund envisages a reduction in the structural deficit for Poland from a stable level of 2% GDP to 1.25% GDP, which means that Poland will achieve its medium-term budgetary objective, the MTO, even this year. It is worth noting that the European Commission, like the International Monetary Fund, recognises the effects of the government's budgetary strategy, which is based on the sealing of the tax system and the implementation of social policy while respecting the requirements of the stabilisation of expenditure rule. Poland's economic growth is also expressed by an increase in average wages in the national economy, which in October this year amounted to PLN 4921 in the business sector. An important factor of economic growth is the increase of sold industrial production to 7.4% and construction and assembly production - close to 18%. Between January and October of this year, the gold was strengthened against the dollar and the euro. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2019 state budget submitted by the Government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to the High House is the best budget of recent years that has come to be adopted by the High House. It is a real budget, based on a likely macroeconomic scenario, embedded in strong economic realities and expectations of Poles. A conservative but stable growth of a gross domestic product of 3.8% is planned in the budget. The main factor in economic growth is consumption demand with historically low levels of unemployment. At the same time, the government's priority objective is to maintain further economic stability. This requires budgetary policy to be pursued as part of the stabilisation of expenditure rules. The revenue in the 2019 budget was planned at nearly PLN 388 billion, which represents 9% more than in the budget this year. The growth of these revenues is influenced by ongoing economic growth with a moderate increase in inflation rates. On the other hand, this will be the result of the implementation of the current system changes. The biggest impact on the budget from tax revenues is planned with VAT. These will be revenues of PLN 180 billion, which results in an increase of more than 7%. Revenue from excise duty, the second highest tax, will increase in 2019 to PLN 73 billion, i.e. by 2.8%. PIT revenue is planned to amount to PLN 64 billion, resulting in an increase of 6.6%. CIT revenue will rise to PLN 34.8 billion, i.e. by 2.4%. The increase in budgetary revenue is accompanied by an increase in gross domestic product from PLN 1858 billion in 2016 to PLN 2234 billion in 2019. This is an increase in GDP by PLN 375 billion during this period. The revenue increase planned in the 2019 budget will allow to plan an increase in expenditure to a record amount of PLN 416 billion, with the lowest budget deficit of PLN 28.5 billion in recent years, resulting in a record decrease in the budget deficit by more than 30%. This lowest historical deficit has an impact on the reduction of Poland's public debt. As early as 2017, it was the first year with a nominal decline in the debt of the public finance sector. The relation of public debt to gross domestic product is important for the Polish economy. As early as 2017, this ratio was reduced from close to 52% to 48.5%. According to the forecast in the draft budget for 2019, the debt-to-GDP ratio will fall to 46.6% , and by the end of 2020, debt reduction is projected to be 40.7%. The cost of handling the Treasury's debt is also reduced. The limit on the cost of handling the Treasury's debt for 2019 will be PLN 29,2 billion. In relation to GDP, this is down to 1.3%. The planned revenue increase in the 2019 budget allows the government to implement important social programmes, such as the 500+ family programme, with a cost of PLN 21.5 billion, a good start - PLN 1.4 billion. More than 13 billion PLN were secured for family benefits, leading the so-called. small ZUS for entrepreneurs - over PLN 0.5 billion. The government has planned to unfreeze the basic amount for the civil service. Over PLN 5 billion have been secured in the budget for the wage increase alone, including PLN 2 billion for the increase in teachers' salaries. The total expenditure in the 2019 budget for Polish families is planned to be over PLN 40 billion. Nearly PLN 33 billion is planned to provide public security for Poles. More than PLN 25.5 billion is planned for the faster development of science and higher education. In the subsequent speeches of the representatives of the Law and Justice Club, expenditure will be presented in the remaining budgetary parts. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend to the High House the adoption of this good for Poland and Poles of the 2019 budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u175	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My first question is, do you guys even want to make this budget? Because I have more and more serious doubts about this, especially if we consider the fact that for the first time in many years the third reading is not due to take place until January... [[Halfway there.]] ...and it won't take place before the end of the year. It looks like you're ashamed of this budget. This is also indicated by the date of the second reading, Friday, afternoon and attendance on your side. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You're ashamed and you're right. This is not a budget fulfilling your promises, and it is certainly not a budget in line with the expectations of Poles. The Polish people and Poles, as the Prime Minister used to say, want to participate more in the developed economic growth, especially since - you do not notice this - it is the entrepreneurship and resourcefulness of Poles that we owe this growth. Thanks are due to this crowd of Poles and Poles working. How do you thank them? The year 2019 is the next year of household budgets drain, the next year in which you reach even deeper into the pockets of Poles. From each of the Poles' hard work and znoju złotki, PiS takes 35 gr. [[Disgraceful!]] 35 gr, because taxes and contributions account for more than 35% GDP. The Polish state belongs thanks to you to the most expensive in this part of Europe and has never been as greedy as it is today since 2007. But 35 gr per dollar isn't enough. Almost 2 gr the PIS will borrow, indebting future generations. The costs of the PiS state per household are over 50,000. zł. That's what you pull out of the citizens' pockets. For the last three years, you've been inventing and introducing new taxes and charges, and raising existing ones. Your creativity in this area is really impressive, and the list of the shame of the PiS already includes 36 titles. Thirty-six times you've done it, raised taxes, fees. And that's the record. I'm sure it's Polish. And you can't see the end. Like the sword of Damocles hangs over Poles a spectrum of rising energy prices. We've been discussing this for days. And it seems that he will not be stopped by the trick of Prime Minister Mateusz by Morawiecki or Minister Tchórzewski, and Poles will once again pay for your inability. Inactivity and inability to obtain free emission permits, killing RES, the lack of really energy cross-border connections - that is the real reason for these increases, and the list of goods and services that will cost you will unfortunately be very long, as if the increases we are seeing today were not enough. Bread, butter, milk - how much did they cost 3 years ago, and how much do they cost today? Unfortunately, they'll be even more expensive. They will also expensive municipal services, public transport tickets, everything that is produced using electricity. And it's actually decided, but you don't care. It'll all come down to Tusk and the PO. [[Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ……]] Tusk is also responsible for caries in kindergartens. And the dark people or, as the former president of one of the big banks said, stupid people will buy it. Well, we have an announcement for you. Poles don't buy it or buy it. You'll see about that soon enough. [[Applause]] For 8 years the Polish state was tailor-made. Saved and rationally managed the public penny. It was cost-effective. Some say it's overly economical. We've watched every dollar several times, especially the one spent on ourselves, putting off a lot of spending on better times. But the last three years have been a complete denial. It's a giant power frenzy. You are consistently building your Byzantium, PiS Byzantium. The manor is growing, and maybe not even the manor house, but the manor house. Spending on the Prime Minister's office, the President's Office, the Sejm's Office, the Senate's Office exceeds a billion zlotys. Prime Minister Morawiecki will spend twice as much on his firm as you did on Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. The Minister of Justice's budget is growing by over PLN 300 million, almost twice. With a generous hand, you also equip the institutions you take over. An example of the Constitutional Court and its budget, the IPN, the National Radio and Television Council is, I can say, significant. And despite this huge increase in expenses, salary allowances, prizes, bonuses, you're not gonna get enough. You demand bribes and rackets. And we have examples, from the head of KNF to the chief of the IRS, [[Applause]] That's $10,000. zł protects monthly, turns a blind eye to VAT fraud. But it's an insufferable punishment, e.g. defending the Ombudsman's constitutional rights, you are reducing his budget. [[Shame on you!]] A little more and you will completely eliminate it, because, according to the President, democracy is flourishing and civil rights are respected. Polish people and Poles see it differently, I assure you, and they will bill you soon. We cannot accept this budget. I submit on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club a request to reject it entirely in second reading. I also make amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u177	Rejection and corrections, well. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about the budget today, so it's worth a fresh start. What's a budget anyway? Where's he coming from? [[We don't know.]] We don't know. And we do, sir. [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[Okay, let's hear it.]] So I'm translating. The budget comes primarily from taxes paid by citizens. Citizens work, work hard, and pay taxes. Recently, the Prime Minister or someone who supports his Twitter account has boasted that we have such human power that half of them leave in the pocket of their citizens, half of what they earn. I wonder if citizens are aware of that. [[Voice from the room: That much?]] That much, sir, half of it. It's said that the Internet is already buzzing that the peasant serf in the Middle Ages was covered with so-called. With tithes. 10% What he earned must have been given back to his master. There are no more gentlemen today, but power takes five times what they took from the peasants in the Middle Ages. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer specifically to the budget, in such general comments. How can we support a budget that does not actually implement basic, fundamental and, what is important, well-known postulates of Kukiz15? What are the demands? Above all, a balanced budget. [[Applause]] You say, gentlemen, that the deficit is falling. This is a good thing, and we do not accept any compromises here, there cannot be this deficit, especially in times of prosperity. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, this budget, as well as previous budgets, and this is not just a charge for Law and Justice, because it has been done consistently over the years, for decades, in debt of Poles for the future. And, ladies and gentlemen, what are the results? I'll get to the details here. You know, citizens do not necessarily know that about PLN 30 billion a year we spend on the service of this debt which the predecessors have incurred on the citizens without any responsibility. What is important, ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, made, by formal means, at second reading, amendments to the budget, including amendments. such important infrastructure projects as the southern Opola bypass, the city stadium in Opole, the eastern Wrocław bypass. These are big projects, hundreds of millions of zlotys. So? And that's not gonna happen. Why won't it be? Because the previous irresponsible governments have indebted us very much. If it weren't for that debt, we'd have had the ring road, the stadiums built long ago, it would've looked completely different. Meanwhile, all these beautiful, important and necessary infrastructure projects remain only in the realm of dreams. Is that fair? No, that's not fair. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important thing. Last year, I was very focused on this, and there was a terrible uproar and an uproar in the plenary room, and this year there will probably be no such uproar, but I will mention this because, as you know perfectly well, Kukiz15 insists that political parties should not be financed by the state budget so that they do not receive subsidies. So? They are still financed by the state budget, and these subsidies are still granted to you. You can do whatever you want with them just because you're political parties. We once made a calculation that daily, dear state, daily, also on Saturdays and Sundays, both commercial and non-commercial, Law and Justice and the Civic Platform receive an amount of about 50,000 due to approximately the same size. zł, a day, for being parties. Is that fair? We don't think so. We cannot therefore support a budget that violates the basic principles we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important thing. This budget does not implement the principles and ideas of the state minimum. What kind of country are you? You're good, you're cheap, but you're not a grandfather. This budget does not include an increase of the tax-free amount to, for example, the minimum social level mentioned a few years ago before you came to power. You promised to raise the tax-free amount. Of course I'm about to hear: we've increased. Yes, you did, but for those who earn up to 250 zlotys a month or so. [[What are you talking about?]] How can you not? That's what you're going to explain, gentlemen. For the weakest, but, sir, let's be serious. [[For the weakest.]] Can we... Yes, technically, she's the weakest person who makes 250 zlotys a month, but a little serious. So, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that Kukiz would have accepted,15 is above all a budget with lower tax revenues. What does that mean? [[You shouldn't have supported VAT.]] Wait a minute. That means we want more money left in the citizens' pockets. If the citizen's in enough shape to go to work, do his job, make money, spend the money on what he wants, but don't. By quoting the tweet of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, you take half of it in the form of taxes and still boast about it. Bravo. I do not know whether VAT is included there, which currently amounts to 23% For a few years now, temporarily. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no higher tax-free amount. You take more money away from the citizens because the growing budget, the rising revenue, means, in fact, that more and more money is coming out of the citizens' pockets. Then you give them, you say: we put them on the road, we give them social, social, well, fine, but also mention that this money does not fall from the sky. It is not that, dear viewers, who will watch this, that Prime Minister Morawiecki pulls out of his own pocket and gives you 500+. And some, I know, think so and so. The fact is that the Prime Minister is a wealthy person, but not enough to pay everyone these 500+s or other social benefits and benefits. [[Prime Minister Tusk gives.]] Oh, it's Prime Minister Tusk from Brussels who gives. But also, Mr President, it is not true that Prime Minister Tusk or President Tusk, President of the European Union, is giving some money because it is we who are putting money into the European Union, that is, actually the Polish government. Where did he get that money? Out of the citizens' pockets again. I mean, you gotta get it out in the form of taxes... [[...and other European countries.]] Yes, Mrs, of course, well, other countries are also throwing themselves on the budget of the European Union, while the facts are that the money we are getting - in quotes - from the European Union, we have to pay ourselves first. What's this great business? [[That's always gonna happen. How can it be different?]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, calm down, 'cause I can see it's getting hot. So, ladies and gentlemen, since there is no higher tax-free amount, since you're pulling more money out of the citizens' pockets, since you're still maintaining the party subsidies... [[Game in the O.R.]] What's all the fuss, ladies and gentlemen, calm down. What's going on here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u180	Thank you very much, Marshal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is unacceptable from a systemic point of view. He does not implement the idea of state minimum, he does not implement such a concept in which more money remains in the pocket of the citizen, and is not drawn from it in the form of taxes. For this reason, we cannot support this budget and we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u181	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget submitted for 2019 is only slightly different from the original version submitted by the Government. Property expenditure in this budget amounts to PLN 22 382 million and the deficit of the state budget - PLN 28,5 million. billion PLN. General government debt will increase to PLN 1093 billion. GDP, Gross Domestic Product in Poland will increase by 3.8% and global GDP, according to European Commission experts, will be 4.1%. It would seem that the economic prosperity in the world offers an opportunity and a great opportunity for the development of our country as well. Unfortunately, we can't count on anything like that. The country's economic development will continue to be based mainly on consumption and only slightly on the increase in exports or investments. Property expenditure very low this year will only increase by 3.2% next year. The largest amount is national defence property expenditure, which is almost 54% total property expenditure, for transport and communications only around 7% total expenditure and health care - 4.6%. In multi-annual investments ahead of us another year of saving. In the National Road Construction Programme, we will realize only 2.42% the appropriations allocated to this multiannual programme. The government does not even hide and states in the explanatory memorandum that only so many investments have been prepared, so it is not really a perverse value when you work, leading the economy of our country for 3 years. The national railway programme - here this commitment is even smaller, because 2,24%. With this level of investment, I have to say that the train from Lublin to Warsaw goes 4 hours and practically an exception is the course, which has no delay, and worst of all, you can not see the well-run investment, it has been stopped. It is also similar with the multiannual programme adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Government in January 2018 under the name Implementation of this programme at 15% . A programme to complement local and regional road infrastructure - these are famous bridges - only PLN 15 million has been allocated, while indicating that there will be other sources of funding. What kind of sources are these? It's clearly... From the Local Road Fund Act, we know what the sources will be. It's just a pity there won't be any money left to fight the smog, because local roads will be built. I think that road investments - but those carried out not by government institutions but by local governments - will actually save the country from the collapse of investment. And you've been trying so hard lately to discredit a functioning local government. The proposed budget does not provide for any significant resources for older people, people with disabilities, as well as pensioners and pensioners. According to the project, the value of pension benefits will be 3.26% and parents of disabled children will not receive assistance in cash, because unlike other parents, they would not know what to use this money for. And that's the justice of law and justice. It is best to apply this measure to the weakest. Polish farmers are already strongly convinced of a similar approach to reality. The budget of next year notes a further decrease in agricultural expenditure, which has been continuing for 3 years. In 2014, agricultural expenditure accounted for 8% total expenditure, and for 2019 it will be only 6.4%. The total agricultural expenditure will amount to 47.5 billion, i.e. 1.5 billion less than in 2018. Of course, the European Union's resources are the highest, which is more than PLN 20 billion. Year by year there is a decrease in agricultural income. Many promises made by the PiS in subsequent electoral campaigns unfortunately are not implemented even in the minimum part. After all, it was the PiS that severely reduced the rotation of the land, thus reducing its value, so it does not bring income to Polish farmers. Today, low prices of pork live and massive imports of live animals from Western Europe are reaching embarrassingly low prices for fruit and duty-free imports of these raw materials from Ukraine. The rulers could not even compensate all farmers for the drought and losses caused by ASF by transferring these funds to the first quarter of next year. In the 2019 budget, the measures for intervention in the agricultural market fall by 6%. By PLN 200 million there are lower funds for insurance of agricultural crops and livestock. Almost three times the support for fruit producers and for agricultural tasks carried out by the voivod's budgets has been reduced. Similarly, by PLN 200 million the funds for loans to farmers and by PLN 340 million for KRUS were reduced. The latter is due to the increased retirement age of farmers and the number of farmers benefiting from benefits fell by 1%. The budget does not provide for any significant amount for the recovery of damage caused by natural disasters, environmental measures or compensation for veterinary services. And it's not just about pay, it's also about increasing the number of jobs. However, the new institution stands out clearly in the agricultural budget - the National Agricultural Support Centre, whose two offices in Warsaw cost PLN 12 million, and where the average monthly salary of employees is PLN 7400, under conditions when in the ARiMR this remuneration is almost half as low as PLN 4300 and in the district branches is even lower. The principle is simple, the new institution employs its own, and these must be properly rewarded. I will make systemic amendments concerning mainly this part of the budget. In conclusion, I would also like to answer the question of what entrepreneurs are facing in 2019 and what ordinary citizens, all ordinary citizens, gain. Unfortunately, very little. The budget is based on parameters which, on the one hand, allow uncontrolled consumption of well-established people as well and, on the other hand, result from the imposition of numerous household fees, including water, gas and electricity charges, which already occurred this year and will affect Poles even more in the next year. Entrepreneurs will enter 2019 with a huge baggage of regulations surrounding them, restricting their activities, with new fees, tributes and taxes. The tax cuts praised by the Prime Minister are purely propaganda and are really about a very small group of taxpayers. The law proposed by the PiS treats entrepreneurs as criminals, and the penalty rates for each offence, often unintentional, are extremely excessive. The submitted draft budget is based on unstable, chaoticly adopted law, created sometimes in a few hours, without justification, without agreement, just as soon as possible. It is a budget based on a law that has no sense of stability, no sense of life, no economic, restricting civil liberties. Is it possible to speak well of a budget that, in times of economic prosperity in the world, does not give an impetus to development, in which consumption prevails, in which the budget deficit is higher than property expenditure? It is a budget that is extremely modest in terms of investment and development and a budget that does not have a sense of social justice. I have presented many examples that this is a budget in which you save, but only on the weaker part of society, and the same cannot defend itself, a budget that inefficiently owes us, all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u183	Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The 2019 budget is the budget of new levies and taxes. And every time the Prime Minister says he's lowering taxes, I'm going to exchange them and tell them how much of it affects the budget, because every step of the way you cheat Poles... [[Then start. Start.]] ...saying you're giving them something, and you're really taking something from them every day. [[Applause]] You are proud of the good budgetary situation, but you forget to add how much it costs citizens because they are citizens, not the fuel mobs or other criminals, who have fallen victim to your governments. Yeah, they're the victims of your governments. More than 30 fees and taxes, danin, raises - today introduced another - we can already document, because it is black and white, the bill after the bill. And after these taxes, the tributes, the fees just go to the budget, the gold to the dollar, the penny to the penny. You take them and the citizens lose them. This money should be left in the pocket of the citizens, not through the budget to go to yours. [[The demand is growing.]] I will mention: bank tax - PLN 4.5 billion, this will affect the budget next year, and this is a transfer hidden in the prices of bank charges, credit cards, mortgages, etc.; cadastral tax on commercial real estate - in a moment Poles will go on winter holidays, then on holidays and pay it - hidden in hotels prices, but also office buildings, warehouses or their own rented apartments from developers; recycling fee, we pay it every day - PLN 1200 million, we pay it with commercials; issue fee - PLN 1700 million. It was supposed to be paid by fuel companies and included in the burden of their budgets, but we can see how it is. [[He's tannin'.]] The price of the barrel of oil fell by 1/4, Mrs, a long time ago, and the companies are slowly slipping away from the price. It's not a matter of their voluntary nature. They should have come off the price a long time ago, and a lot. [[Applause]] But they make money using their monopoly position at the expense of citizens. The same way they're gonna transfer the issue fee to the citizens, because they do it every time, keeping cheaper goods in storage and setting higher prices. [[In short, defeat.]] Solidarity Danina: 1200 million. It's just the third tax threshold. However you may not call it, the PiS government introduced the third tax threshold into Polish tax law. Today we have three stakes: 18%, 32% and 36%. [[And?]] [[And?]] And that's 1,200 million. Higher VAT rates have been extended, 8% and 23% Which means the impact of over 7 billion zlotys you don't want to give back to your citizens. And you promised them this in the election campaign, which I've shown here many times. You just tricked them. [[Applause]] What would be the deficit, Minister, if these other charges I mentioned had not been introduced into Polish tax law? PLN 30.40 billion? [[Come on, come on.]] Right. We've had the highest taxation of the economy in 11 years. Do you know when the last time was this high? In 2007 the Commission Do you know who was in charge of our country at the time? Law and Justice. [[Day of freedom.]] A day of tax freedom? He must be educated. What is tax freedom day? How does it count? This is the ratio of the amount of money spent on the tax administration to GDP, not the level of taxes collected to GDP. [[Applause]] [[We are hearing well, Madam Member. Don't scream like that.]] But here you have to go into detail and educate, learn to know. How much money will the citizens give to the state budget next year? This year it is already 700 billion PLN, which in the form of various taxes, fees and social security you draw from their pockets. And over the last two years, our economy's tax levels have increased by 2%. It's all yours. That's what you took from the citizens: 2%. In the region we have practically the highest interest rate in terms of the economy. Only the more prosperous countries have higher rates than us, but there the standard of living is different. [[And more justice.]] All countries that are at our level have lower interest rates. But Byzantium is growing. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Institutes, foundations, money for your own. [[Voice from the room: Absolutely not.]] You guys are just like GetBack, with every rift leaking money. [[A voice from the hall: Even Petru laughs at you.]] Today you've re-established another foundation where you'll be doing Byzantium. [[Applause]] But in ZUS, the money's empty. According to the latest report, there will be a shortage of 340 billion PLN in the next five years, but none of you think about it. This is a Christmas present for our children and grandchildren from the PiS government. [[It's better to count to 10. There'll be more.]] [[Voice from the room: Who are you defending?]] Let's take a look at what you've done. Health care. The starosts and the directors of the county hospitals, i.e. those who safeguard our basic health needs, were hoping that the financial problems would disappear when the facilities entered the hospital network. Did you find out what happened to it? It happened exactly the other way around. The guarantee of funding maintained at the level of 2015 has nothing to do with increasing the cost of operating hospitals in the last 2 years. You're still forcing hospitals to break public finances, treat people and save their lives on credit without covering, because that's what you might call it, because they don't have the money to pay it off. They can only pray that, at the end of the year, the government can make money out of the state budget for overwork. The absurdity of our country. Smog. We've been hearing the Prime Minister fight the smog for two years. Bravo, Prime Minister received the award: Skamelina of the Year for 2018 for a complete lack of action in the fight for air quality in Poland. Investments. Again, I heard from the politicians of Law and Justice that the level of investment had changed gently. We hear it almost every quarter, but once again it would be enough to go into details to see what it looks like and we can see that private companies and foreign companies are not really investing. Growth is based only on state-owned companies and is so far from what we expect. So you could be scored for basically every item of this budget and every ministry. Unfortunately, we will come to the conclusion that in the following years this level of taxation of the Polish economy will increase, because that is your thinking. It doesn't matter what citizens do. Your Byzantium is important. And we will not support this Byzantium, and I therefore request that this bill be rejected at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u185	Mr Richard Petru, near Now, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say that what my colleague just said is important to you: you have introduced a third tax rate. Maybe you don't know that. Namely by introducing solidarity tribute, you introduce de facto, like post-communists several years ago, a third tax rate. [[For the weakest.]] You will admit that this kind of solution always hits... [[Voice from the room: Middle class.]] ...those who pay taxes in Poland. But first things first. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this budget is good for you because you've pushed the Misiewiczs into companies, fed your families, you're happy that the government is feeding itself, but if we look at the budget situation... [[...how much they paid. The Member does not know.]] Keep your voice down. If you look at it, first of all, we have another budget deficit. Look at the situation in other countries. Germany has a surplus of 35 billion. There is a budgetary surplus in the 13 countries of the European Union during the economic period. You introduced 30 taxes - I'll remind you which - and we still have a higher VAT rate, which is 8% And 23%... [[Same.]] ...even though you promised you wouldn't lower your energy prices. There is no way, since the economy is based on coal, and coal is expensive and poisons energy prices not to increase. You know that very well. Whether you cancel Minister Tchórzewski or not, you chose a strategy of expensive energy. This is the cost of maintaining Polish mining force. What you should do as soon as possible is to say straight away: we move away from coal and stop all carbon investments, any new coal-based energy blocks. [[And we're sitting in the dark.]] And that's how we go in... Ladies and gentlemen, we have a choice. I can explain it to you because I see you don't get it. We have a choice: either expensive energy from our own coal, which poisons Poles... [[Or we buy energy from the Germans.]] ...or cheap, competitive energy based on various competitive sources, including the RES you killed. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT. 180 billion zlotys are due next year with VAT. Look at the economic growth, add inflation. It turns out that revenue from VAT per year is growing exactly according to this - economic growth plus inflation. Therefore, there are no extra-methods that would eliminate VAT leakage. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that VAT carousels have not disappeared, VAT mobs are still in Poland. Unfortunately, I will tell you with regret: the future parliament will be able to make the same accusations for you as you did for your predecessors. It is not that the VAT system has been sealed, simply as the economy spins, it more with VAT affects. But you know very well that we still have the VAT carousel, we still have the VAT on the poles, and we still have the VAT mafia. [[We don't get it because we're sitting in the dark. There's no way in the dark, sir.]] [[We're fighting.]] I know, but, ladies and gentlemen, it will turn out that you are fighting, only with insufficient zeal. Recently, the former Vice-President of KNF was arrested for being too eager to fight against SKOK Wołomin - on this principle everyone can be charged with, remember - and before that almost killed him. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make use of the economic economy for the safety of Poles, a balanced budget is needed, i.e. a budget in which we have a surplus during a period of prosperity. 500+ was supposed to be your demographic program. How many fewer children were born this year? 10,000. less. In fact, this program would have to be thoroughly corrected. [[Take it away.]] The first child is a challenge, and it certainly should not be given to wealthy people. [[Take it away.]] I understand. You're gonna scare and blackmail. You say the opposition wants to take it. No, the opposition wants to correct the program so that the richest don't get... [[But the Member used it. You have used the 500+ Member.]] ...so you don't put it in your pockets. The second point is that the first child is a challenge, not another one. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a place to live. 400 million PLN will go in 2019. Do you know how many apartments were built? 480 apartments you built as part of this program. [[It's a success.]] [[For starters.]] For starters, all the proposals made by Prime Minister Morawiecki are that in the future something may happen, but Poles judge you Right here, right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I must sum up. The fact is, you kept your VAT rate at 23 and 8%... [[We did.]] ...you have introduced a recycling fee - PLN 1.2 billion... [[One, comma.]] ...emission - PLN 1.7 billion, solidarity tribute - PLN 1.2 billion. You have a budget deficit instead of a surplus. It's easy to promise and leave problems to successors. The lower retirement age, and the state know it well, are lower pensions of Poles, more taxes for Polish entrepreneurs are throwing logs to Polish companies, and the economy based on coal is always higher energy prices. Low pensions, high energy prices and a lot of promises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For which future generations will pay. This is your budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u187	Mr Jan Szewczak, Mr Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u188	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Vice Prime Ministers and Constitutional Ministers! [[But you don't have a finance minister, you don't have a prime minister.]] Yeah, that certainly raises the profile of this debate when we have them in the courtroom. Of course. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing the 2019 budget, we can and should even ask ourselves a fundamental question, why do we need Poland proud, Poland ambitious, Poland with growing fiscal, tax revenues... [[Those are words that nothing stands behind.]] ...if there may be a green island again, i.e. Poland submissive, Member, defenseless, robbed of hundreds of billions of zlotys, not only of VAT. [[What are you saying? What are you talking about?]] Of course, creating further budgets, including the one for 2019, we have no problem that we are missing from VAT carousels of these PLN 30.40 billion annually. It is exactly the opposite - it arrives every year about 30 and 40, perhaps even PLN 50 billion and for 4 years the tax revenue of the state budget will increase by PLN 150 billion. [[But the SKOKs have also grown.]] That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. I will remind you that during the time of the predecessors, during these 30 years most of the Polish national assets were sold for the amount of about PLN 170 billion, and in the year we can make up for PLN 50 billion from this robbery sale of the national assets. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to... [[How's the SKOKs?]] ...many things to do. Maybe that's why we're doing a little bit better, because we don't have the kind of finance specialist that the previous government had... [[But you got it from the SKOKs.]] ... Minister John Vincent-Rostowski, financial minister Chuck Norris, who was able to count to infinity and back. It's a real budget Nikifor, who still can't figure it out. [[Touchdown, applause]] He still can't... Don't disturb me, you've spoken, you've had the opportunity to speak. [[No, we're still waiting.]] He still can't understand what happened to the state's revenue over the last few nice years. Of course, we can also ask ourselves why the Polish state has a deficit in the public finance sector of 0.5%, 0.6% , maybe 0.9% Worst case scenario, what's it gonna be this year, if you can live as Prime Minister Donald Tusk on a 7 percent deficit and there was no problem, right? [[We're comparing the incomparables again, aren't we?]] I ask you, when it comes to the debt management strategy, the sovereign debt, the debt costs, Mr Nobleman has already said a lot about it. It can be made clear that we are going in the right direction. The government debt is decreasing to approx. 46% , although nominally the debt grows. I assure you that it is growing in a much safer way than in France, Italy and many other countries... [[In SKOKs.]] ...that rich union you're setting for us, with even a budget surplus. I would like to say to the Member who spoke before me that it is difficult to compare our country's deficit with the surplus in Malta, which seems to have 400 000. population, to Greece, where the debt-to-GDP ratio is 180%... [[Italy.]] ... Cyprus, Luxembourg, where there are almost all banks, Italy, I don't even care about the Greeks anymore, our friends in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Treasury's debt is decreasing to around 45%. , general government debt - approx. 48% , the share of foreign debt is decreasing, which is extremely important for the financial security of the State. Mr Noblet spoke about this cost of public debt service - less than PLN 30 billion, 29 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, remember your time, the annual cost of debt service was 42 billion, and that didn't upset you. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the FUS is concerned, which, as someone has already said, I think the Modern Representative, is going to be some kind of drama... [[Armageddon.]] ...then, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly the opposite, the contributions and proceeds to the FUS are increasing significantly, the subsidies are decreasing, and these are quite large amounts, in the order of at least PLN 8 and 10 billion. The interest rate of Polish bonds is falling, interest from foreign capital is growing. The budget situation, ladies and gentlemen, is better this year than the biggest optimists expected. [[And opponents.]] I talked about this many months ago, I, colleagues, said that at the end of 2018 the macroeconomic results of the budget will not be as positive as sensationally positive. The 2019 forecasts are equally optimistic, Mr President. Tax revenues at the end of 2018 may be higher by PLN 40 This is what the state, our predecessors, has earned in eight years at a national estate sale. You sold this property for 8 years for 50 billion PLN. We've been doing this in a year, so I'll be honest with you, I wish you... [[Nationalization?]] ...that you may have such visions, and that you may dream of such colorful dreams, even such indicators as we will achieve this year and probably also in the future. [[But who's talking about it? Who's talking about it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2019 budget, we will have PIT income of about PLN 120 billion. [[SKOK Volumine.]] This is the level that you have, in fact, had, only in terms of VAT, and we, as part of the PIT, will have such levels. I am no longer talking about these 180 billion VAT receipts or 185 billion ZUS contributions. [[Voice from the room: Manipulation.]] Of course, the revenue from these three taxes and ZUS contributions will probably be 40% higher than 2015 when we took up the government. [[It's gonna be beautiful.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you laughed so much at these Misiewiczs, and I'd like to give you specific information... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...yes, ladies and gentlemen, those mocked by the total opposition of the Miesiewicze caused that today the value and valuation of the Treasury stock companies The countries are higher by PLN 75 billion than in your time you had [[Applause]] Such outstanding ones, when you left, felt sorry for God, professionals from companies of the Treasury. [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, I ask you to silence the room. Ladies and gentlemen, we've got another record year on the fuel revolution. In 2018 they will be 10% bigger... [[They're expensive.]] ...and that means there will be higher tax revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you. It seems that the Committee on Public Finance should be an elite form, an elite place for a substantive debate, a debate based on data, on facts. [[Do you make elites? Aren't you ashamed?]] Of course I understand political things, but really, don't believe those moss fairy tales and ferns... [[We don't believe you, we don't believe you.]] ...as told by Prime Minister Donald Tusk that you have sealed the tax system so that now 500+ can be given. [[We don't have to believe, we know.]] Because everyone laughs at it. [[Most of the SKOKs are laughing.]] Do not go this way, do not go the way of Professor Leszek Balcerowicz, the way of political and financial schizophrenia consisting in inadequate perception, understanding and assessment of reality. It doesn't make sense, ladies and gentlemen, there's no point in believing in these fairy tales that in 2018 there will be a 100-billion-dollar deficit in the budget... [[The SKOK condition.]] ...and that's what these stories have been said and repeated. [[They were scared.]] I will tell you more: this year there will probably be a primary surplus, because if you deduct the cost of handling the public debt, which is within 30 billion with this small deficit of 0.5% or 0.9%, this will be for the first time in many years a completely different macroeconomic situation, there will be a primary surplus. This is extremely important. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the cost of the state that the representative of the Civic Platform was concerned, you've seen every penny through a microscope, you really need to have a sense of humor. I can remind you of the examples. [[Like what?]] 50 million per portal for homeless Emp@tia. [[And it's worth taking an interest in, SKOK specialist.]] 500 million PLN for wooden doughnuts under the Polish Presidency of the European Union. Probably PLN 300.500 million per nuclear power plant, and yet we do not know where Poland would end up. [[National Foundation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grabowski, certainly a very sympathetic Member, I would like to say this: Mr, we are not in favour of your minimum concept. [[Byzantium. Elite.]] Yes, yes, we are rather in favour of the idea of a socially sensitive country, and that - I would say - the maximum. I know that Mr Kukiz15 would have preferred it to be the citizens who have imposed taxes on the state, not the way it has been in the whole world so far, unfortunately. But that's not how it's gonna work. If Mr Grabowski put pressure on the European Union to give up this VAT, we are in favour, yes, we would be in favour. [[Voice from the room: You can't see.]] It is a harmonised tax and here no madness can be cultivated. But I think that something nice also for Mr Długo I would like to say here: we are thinking intensively about reducing this economic burden, also the tax burden of Poles. Perhaps it is worth to undertake some conceptual work in this area, because, in fact, with our income, the level of our income, the poor, also in terms of pension conditions, pension benefits, we are far behind and indeed this economic burden, the cost of living is significant for Poles. We understand that, but this is the third year of government, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Only.]] ...it's not 8 or 10 years when you can make a thorough reconstruction of the financial system. It is difficult to argue with the fact that modern representatives do not understand that there is a function of finance such as a redistribution function. It's just an element of public finances, and that's the way it is. [[Wołomin's SKOKs.]] And it's extremely important who these tax revenues go to. This is the issue of certain social, family expenses. [[Yes, sir.]] I think that Mr Cymanski will explain this very precisely, because his social sensitivity is very well known, so I think we will find out a lot of things that you will learn. Ladies and gentlemen, education. Education is indeed an Achilles heel in the field of finance, in my opinion, Modern, and indeed a lot of opportunities in this area. It is not true that Poland has the highest taxation of the economy and entrepreneurship, etc. Of course, there are countries like Ireland, where this CIT is invincible. But it's not like everything can be done in a very short time. Ladies and gentlemen, this 2019 budget will be a good budget for Poland and Poles. [[Wonderful.]] There is no comparison to the budgets of Minister Rostowski. [[The best for farmers will be.]] We suddenly had 28 billion, so that we needed to update the budget immediately. But it's not like that jump on the OFE... [[Voice from the O.R.: In the OFE.]] ...we make 150 billion under the second armpit. That's not the way it is. [[Don't lie to me, please, don't lie to me, sir, no one has jumped, don't lie to me.]] Mrs Skowrońska... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u189	Madam, please don't disturb me. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, you have no voice now, I warn you. [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u190	I'm sure Mrs Skowrońska will... We're debating on the committee... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u191	What's that... Where are you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u192	The problem is, Mrs Skowronska, that there are people who...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u193	At the fair? [[Voice from the room: In the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u194	...knows they don't know... [[That you're lying.]] ...and there are people who don't know that they don't know, and they insist very much on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u195	This is where you have to behave... [[Voice from the room: At least that's what we think.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u196	These are facts. Remember the debate... [[The voice from the room: You're lying like a piece of music.]] ...professor Balcerowicz with Minister Rostowski, from one trunk, so to speak, an idealist. So he's definitely in our country...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u197	No corrigendums don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u198	...the account of the wrongs to compensate - the weakest, the poorest, the least-replaced. We're aware of that. Salaries are rising by 7%... [[You're manipulating the truth.]] ...by 7% growing, but appetites grow as we eat, and certainly Poles' ambitions are growing. Only divine providence can cause them not to return to that time when you served those raises so much, so to speak, from under a big finger. It was not better, these budgets were much more incriminating for the Polish state. Remind me? When the state held power in 2007, the public debt amounted to just over 500 billion. When you handed over power in 2015, it was almost 900 billion PLN. And if you add up the OFE, the 150 more... The Prime Minister explained it, it's a trillion. So let's really maintain a common sense relationship. You may not like it, you have to criticize it, the opposition has such rights, but let's keep some reasonableness in all of this. It is certainly not that it is drama, armageddon, as someone here just said, a disaster. Let us wish for such a disaster so that we can adopt such budgets over the next five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u199	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Vladimir Nykiel... [[Corrigendum.]] [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] ... The Civic Platform. [[Formal conclusion.]] What did you want to bring in? [[Formal conclusion.]] In writing, please. [[Yeah, I got it in writing.]] A break? [[No. Then I can report...]] [[Voice from the room:...what conclusion...]] [[Do you have to interrupt me?]] But what formal conclusion do you want to make? [[Can you let me speak?]] And what will this proposal involve? [[Can you let me speak so I can file a formal motion?]] No, because you want to argue or straighten out... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a debate...]] [[Do you have to question me? It doesn't say you're questioning me anywhere.]] Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome. [[Does the marshal have to question me? It's not in the regulations that you're questioning me with a formal motion.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a finance committee, Mrs President.]] [[Mr Marshal, there can be no lie, because if Mr Szewczak said he was going to jump the OFE...]] Member, you have no voice. Please take your seat and don't disturb me. [[...then let Mr Szewczak prove it. Because he's lying...]] Mr... [[...and it's lying from the Seym. You lied, sir.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is not a bazaar, this is not a bazaar, Madam.]] [[The first liar of this parliament.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I declare that my conduct in the sitting room... [[You lie and manipulate.]] ...you're violating the Sejm's seriousness. [[With what? A question?]] You're welcome, sir. [[A question? Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But why all the excitement, Member?]] What question? [[She wanted to ask you a question...]] Yes? Now? [[Corrigendum. The Member has mentioned his name...]] What can you straighten out... [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]] Your time, sir, please. [[...said his name several times...]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't mention a name.]] [[No, he didn't.]] [[He mentioned it several times, check the transcript.]] [[Voice from the room: He exchanged.]] Mr President, are you speaking, or are you resigning?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u200	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u201	I'm asking if you're taking the floor or if you're quitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u202	And on what basis does your marshal say I'm quitting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u203	On the grounds that you're silent, and this is your time. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Jesus Mary...]] [[Because you can't calm the room.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u204	I wish there was silence in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. And I'm asking you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget law for 2019 shows that tax revenues will amount to almost 93% all revenue of the State budget. Thus, the vast majority of income is provided by taxpayers of various taxes to the budget. I think it would be good to thank them for that. Of course, the State should take care of the rights of those who enable it to function, namely taxpayers. Unfortunately, there is no doubt that the rights of the taxpayer in Poland are not sufficiently protected. In addition to the provisions restricting the rights of the taxpayer, these rights are subject to a low level of legislation. In Poland tax law is created chaoticly, without long-term vision. Often, projects are not subject to public consultation, regulations are amended before entry into force, and tax laws are incomprehensible not only to taxpayers, but also to tax authorities, notabene are also incomprehensible to linguists. Tax law is unstable. Consequently, the taxpayer has enormous difficulties in establishing the scope of its own rights and obligations. It should be borne in mind, however, that the collection of the most important taxes is based primarily on the so-called. the principle of self-calculation, i.e. the taxable person is obliged to calculate the tax and to pay it to the tax authority. Thus, it is the taxable person who is responsible for the correct determination of the facts and interpretation of tax law. If he makes a mistake, he will suffer severe consequences. So if you screw up the tax laws, it's the taxpayer's responsibility. Tax law also violates taxpayers' rights. These include: to shift the burden of evidence to taxpayers, to replace testimony, e.g. by questioning the employees of the trader, by reducing the role of individual tax interpretations, by calling into question the deduction by honest taxable persons of VAT. Unfortunately, there is a lack of trust between taxpayers in tax authorities and those authorities in taxpayers. A similar assessment appears to be also at the heart of the regulation of the Business Law of 2018, which was intended to strengthen the position of an entrepreneur, also a taxable person, and which to a large extent repeats the existing regulations and rules in this regard. In view of this situation, it is necessary to guarantee sufficiently strong instruments for the protection of the rights of the taxpayer. Such an instrument may be in the form of a Taxpayer's Rights Charter, in which they will be defined in a simple and concise manner. The aim of the Charter would be to ensure that taxpayers' rights are properly protected, including the proper balance of public and private interest in tax law, and to raise public awareness of taxpayers' rights. Today, the Charter exists in many countries, for example. in 2/3 of OECD countries. Accepting it in Poland would mean joining our country as a member of these countries. This is the first issue I've ever wanted to raise. Second, another - sometimes we hear that the position of our science in the world is too low. The underlying reason for this is certainly too low spending on this sphere, too low in particular for us to chase Europe. These expenditures are well below the European average. If we have low expenditures, let us not expect great results. In such a situation, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition proposes amendments to the budget increasing our expenditure on learning. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u207	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz,15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget is the most important bill of the year. It is worth considering whether it really differs from the other budgets of the last decade. We come to the conclusion that there is little difference, because if the policy of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice were to differ, would the amount free be raised or maintained? Well, it was raised, and it was actually maintained. If the policies of the Civic Platform and the PiS were different, would VAT be reduced or increased? He was lowered, and he was elevated, so... [[No, it's not. It's kept.]] ...you'll have more and more. If this policy were to differ, would the party subsidies be spent less or the same? Less, and it goes the same way. If the policy of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice were different, would we be talking about a budget deficit or a surplus? Of course, we are talking about a deficit, and we would be talking about a surplus if this policy were to differ. The amount is very similar - 30 billion. There were years that were 30, 40 or 50 billion. These are the same amounts. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no major political differences in taxation between the Civic Platform and Law and Justice. Worse still, you are imitating these bad qualities of raising taxes, throwing citizens into the furnace, pulling more and more money into the budget. Then you think you're smarter than everyone else, and you know best what to do with that money. You think you know best what to do. [[For the poor.]] The platform felt the same way - that she knew what to do, that's why she raised taxes and you raise taxes. Another joint link. [[Voice from the room: And it's best not to pick up.]] We believe, however, that Poles are intelligent and know exactly what to do with this money, so it is worth taking the direction to reduce tax burdens. Another year of 2019 is inflation again. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last 10 years, we may have had about 30% of total inflation and over the years have not changed at all the relief for commuting to work. She hasn't really changed in 12 years, she's still at the same level, even though the cost of commuting to work is getting bigger, even though the fuel is getting more expensive, because even more tax has been imposed, there will be a 10 gr higher fuel price from January next year. The platform also had a tax on the fuel industry and a backup fee. So that's another common element. There's a lot of it. I think that if we spent the whole day here in this debate, it would turn out that there are very few differences. And here you can be offended, and Mrs. Skowronska may be annoyed about the money from OFE, but this is another element that you have in common, because you are introducing capital plans that could end in a similar way. [[No, other property.]] In a similar way, they could end up in a few years. Of course, I'm not saying next year, but 10 years from now. You don't know any other property. Mr. Speaker! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. After all, if there is one sentence in the bill that says that money belongs to Poles, then this law can be changed at any time, and you already know perfectly well how to change one sentence, and it can be done so repaired in a few hours, so that the law potentially guarantees something, is not a guarantee at any time today, looking at how the law is treated by the ruling party. For us as Kukiz.15 this is another year in which we leave 7 million PLN in the state budget because we did not register as a political party before starting in these elections, of which we are very happy. We hope that the 7 million we do not collect will be well spent in the budget. We would like them to go first and foremost to health care. That's it for now. We're in favour of rejecting the budget because it's not much different, and it's practically no different... It is a budget to follow the policy of the Civic Platform, simply by pressing and increasing taxes for Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause, cheer, cheer in the hall]] [[They should be thanking us.]] [[That's a big compliment to you.]] [[Continue, you heard me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u209	Mr Robert Majka, a non-attached Member, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! When I speak on a matter related to the budget, one thing comes to mind: Was the implementation of George Soros' economic programme as well as Leszek Balcerowicz simply needed for the Polish state? I must admit that this is about the economic consequences, the destruction of the economy, the depreciation of industry - practically the picture of Podkarpacie is scary. I would like to say here that the failure to present a report on the state of the Polish state for the years 1989 and 2018 is simply the basis of a lack of knowledge about the economy of the Polish state, and therefore, on 10 December, as a Member, I have submitted an interpellation on this matter, please. This is my interview with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. To be honest, when I made contact with the Solidarity Fighting in 1983, I didn't even think I'd be in the Seym one day and the Prime Minister would be the son of Kornel Morawiecki, Mateusz Morawiecki. To be honest, I was very happy, and I was happy that Prime Minister Morawiecki became Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Beata Szydło. I was and am happy that Prime Minister Morawiecki is Prime Minister of the Polish Government, but believe me, some things are shocking to me. Just a pension for the first president of the Supreme Court, 2000 PLN when the Prime Minister breaks the law, to be honest, it's for me... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What am I talking about? I'll tell you what. Madam President... [[Court.]] ...calls on a position when she wasn't the first president of the Supreme Court. Now I have a letter from the President of the Republic of Poland, Dr. Andrzej Duda, that the position by the first president of the Supreme Court was unsolved. I think you should know what's going on here because you're accusing me of talking about something that doesn't matter. Oh, by the way. And the last issue, which is just quite sensitive and very important to me, is that I also submitted a parliamentary interpellation on non-legal claims against the Polish State. It is about the implementation of Law 447, which results in a huge amount of $300 billion for the Polish state, it is about the Jewish lobby, the Holocaust industry. I would ask you to pay attention to Professor Finkelstein's lectures. If anyone doesn't know who he is, there are lectures on the Internet. One of you might say it's irrelevant. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion this is simply a threat to the existence and independence of the Polish state. For me, it is unbelievable that the government simply does not pay attention to this important issue. In the case of both these interpellations, I expect an answer from Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u211	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u212	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to refer in my speech to the part in our good budget, which concerns Polish agriculture. And so, with regard to expenditure, because I think that this is the most important part of the country's interest, the state budget is planned for the development of agriculture 26,877 million, which represents 6,45% Total expenditure of the State budget. Expenditure from the State budget for agriculture and rural development and agricultural markets will be complemented by European funds. And here we will spend the sum of PLN 20 257 million from European funds. Total agricultural expenditure, in general, is foreseen at 47 467 million. This is the amount that will enable all the support programmes for agricultural producers to be financed and will ensure that the necessary needs of the budgetary units, executive agencies and institutions working for agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets are financed from the State budget. Expenditure is planned for each programme in the following amounts. Aids for agricultural and livestock insurance - more than PLN 650 million, including for the first time a total of PLN 90 million for drought-related expenditure has been foreseen by the State. We secured what this year was such a big problem for Polish agriculture. [[It's nothing.]] We have committed PLN 1.5 billion and we will spend PLN 750 million. This will amount to more than PLN 2 billion for drought cases. [[Applause]] [[Six of them.]] This amount has never been used in history to help farmers. [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: That's why they went out on the street yesterday.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was also drought in 2015. And in order for you to be aware, I will state that over 400 million zlotys were allocated at the time. [[What are you saying, sir?]] We spend over PLN 2 billion. That's the scale. [[Four times the size.]] 400 million were planned to help farmers during the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, we are planning over PLN 2 billion... [[Lying, manipulation, Mr. President.]] ...because we know that this aid is very much needed by Polish farmers. Biological progress in animal production - 89 million, biological progress in plant production - over 15 million, almost 16 million. And here, dear country, almost PLN 271 million is planned for the operation of agricultural schools. Why am I talking about this in particular? Because here we have more than 45 million more than in 2018. Why? Because we're taking over farm schools, we're taking over. Until now, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has disposed of agricultural schools. [[That's not true.]] It's important to be clear, he got rid of farm schools. [[You're full of shit.]] We We took over those schools. During the Civil Platform and the Polish People's Party there were forty-two schools, at the moment 52 schools are the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. We think we need to bet on young people. [[Applause]] We think we need to bet on science. [[Applause]] We believe that we need to bet on Polish agricultural schools. [[These are the same schools.]] We're not getting rid of each other like the Civic Platform government, we're taking over. [[Voice from the room: If we got rid of them, where did they come from?]] You may not like it, you may scream, this is your business... [[Voice from the room: Lying, changing names.]] ...but we will bet on Polish youth, Polish science, agricultural science, because we know that this is the future. I think that the professor also knows that Polish young people are the future, and I think that the professor understands me and understands the Polish government that he bets on Polish young people and finances Polish agricultural schools... [[You haven't increased anything.]] ...because he knows that it is and will be very necessary in the future. Next case. We're still talking about science. Implementation of agricultural advisory tasks - 235 million. Again, ladies and gentlemen, 41 million more than in 2018. Why? Well, again, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, I want to emphasize this because this party, which... [[1.5 billion less for agriculture.]] Oh, there's no one at the moment. [[Voice from the room: You're here.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, there's the Member. This party, which says that it supported Polish agriculture, gave agricultural advice to marshals. They didn't want to do farm advice, they just gave it to the marshals. [[They do it better.]] [[Because they do it better.]] We've taken back the farm advisory centers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And we are betting on agricultural advice, because agricultural advice, I think that you will agree with me on this, even though you scream so nicely, it has been corrupted in Poland. It's broken. [[1.5 billion less for agriculture, sir.]] You have to bet on agricultural advice, on technological agricultural advice. [[1.5 billion less.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly hear you screaming. Those who, I think, know the best about agriculture have the right to scream. We think we need to finance education, science, counseling, because this is the future... [[Voice from the room: Education.]] ...our Polish agriculture, and we bet on our Polish agriculture, [[Applause]] Because we know that this is... [[Bend reality. Bend reality.]] ...we need it, it is needed for the future of Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] We do not fold the county Poland, we do not fold the Polish agriculture, as has been done so far. [[Who's blocking it?]] We develop them and we want to bet on them, and we bet on them, and that's why we give more money. [[Voice from the room: Development.]] [[1.5 billion less.]] What else do I want to pay particular attention to? Well, we have an ASF problem, a difficult problem of Polish agriculture. [[Did you take the money from the farmers?]] Our predecessors couldn't handle it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If it really started then... [[Three fires. And 213.]] Your Marshal, may I please? [[Don't lie to the Member.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. Your marshal told me not to speak and react to what the Members were screaming. Because it's uncultural of them, not mine. So thank you, Marshal, for this. [[Voice from the room: It's uncultural to lie.]] Of course, there are over 200 million more than in 2018. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's a sin to lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. You wanna scream, go to the clowns.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u214	There will be 432 million, 200 million more, to combat infectious diseases, and above all, dear country, to fight against ASF. [[Sir, it's a sin.]] I don't mean to jinx it, but we're dealing with this problem right now... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...and our predecessors haven't dealt with this problem. [[213.]] We know this is important. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: For farmers.]] [[Wish this reality on.]] Let's keep yelling, keep yelling. [[Mr President, lying is a sin. It's a sin.]] It's about fuel subsidies. Dear country, agricultural fuel subsidies have been increased since 2018... [[They're protesting, not us.]] ...by 2019 by PLN 320 million - by PLN 320 million - and this is the money that will reach farmers, not virtually, into the farmer's pocket. [[It's about the amount of fuel costs, the price evening.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u215	Madame, for you, I think it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u216	...only real. You guys haven't done it so far, and that's why your reaction here is right now. For the first time, we also support, I think, one of our major productions. I'm talking about milk production. That's why for the first time in every piece we have 30 liters of fuel. That's not the kind of thing that's happened before. And we want to support this... [[Manipulation. That's not true. Who's it for?]] ...which is good in our Polish agriculture. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we are thinking of those who have failed. We know that many Polish farmers in the period of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party must have rolled and rolled their farms... [[How much is the pig now? $3.20 for living.]] It's too late, and no one's ever thought about it. The platform never thought of helping those farmers who found themselves in a very... [[400,000. he's not paying his credit.]] ...bad situation. The National Agricultural Support Centre will implement a restructuring programme for agricultural holding companies. And we spend the sum of PLN 200 million. Ladies and gentlemen, budget appropriations now. The budget of European funds is over PLN 20 billion. For what? First of all, for direct support - over PLN 14 billion, support for fruit and vegetable producers - I think you agree with me that this is an important issue - over PLN 50 million, for intervention on agricultural markets - PLN 426 million, for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme - over PLN 5 billion, for projects implemented by agricultural schools - and this is an interesting thing that agricultural schools also reach for EU funds - over PLN 60 million, for projects implemented by the Chief Provincial for Plant Protection and Seed Protection - PLN 730 thousand. zł. It's also important to remember... [[Shame, sir, shame.]] ...I already said that in 2019 we will immediately pay PLN 715 million in January, in addition to PLN 1.5 million, which was paid... [[Where's the rest of it?]] ...because of the drought. In total, it is over 2200 million to help these farmers because of drought. Dear countries! This is the agricultural budget. But we must not forget the agricultural budget at the same time that we are developing district Poland, Poland, let's call it rural. It is we who return with the stations to the district Poland, it is we who return with postmarks, and you rolled it up. And, ladies and gentlemen, the 500+ programme is also very important, 64% The funds from the 500+ program go to small towns because there are families of many children. And this is also support by 500+ for rural areas. A Member from the Polish People's Party kind of criticized this action, because for a lot of money they are transferred to the National Agricultural Support Centre. And here we must, ladies and gentlemen, say one thing. So far, until 2016, for these eight years, you have sold Polish land and sold this Polish land... [[How much?]] ...the state's being flooded with a budget hole. We don't do that, ladies and gentlemen. You guys just... [[How much, how much?]] ...you robbed Polish farmer, Polish agriculture, because you sold not only the land, but also agricultural companies... [[Lie!]] ...processing companies. Ladies and gentlemen! You know this is the biggest problem right now. At this point, we have a difficult agricultural situation. That's something to be clear about. But what is the cause of this? It's caused by the fact that you've been selling... [[Chinese.]] ...Polish processing country, you sold Polish companies, you sold those entities that were involved in processing. And right now, about the prices in agriculture... [[But you're lying.]] ...doesn't decide the Polish farmer, no one else decides, only the companies, because you allowed it. You guys sold... [[Voice from the room: Just like KNF.]] [[You're lying.]] ...and the land, and the Polish factories, and that's why there's a problem now. [[It's like KNF.]] We're rebuilding it. We're rebuilding, ladies and gentlemen, through the National Agricultural Support Centre. This National Agricultural Support Center will create a holding company that will recreate what you've corrupted, what you've sold, what you've allowed... [[The voice from the room: The earth was added.]] ...for a little money to take over... [[Selling 500 ha? And we're 400 ha.]] ...to foreign companies. And that's what's causing it right now... [[You guys aren't competitive.]] ...this very serious problem in Polish agriculture. But we're gonna be okay. We'll fix it. We're what you're... [[Lie!]] ...you've ruined Polish agriculture, we'll fix it, [[Applause]] Because we know... [[Voice from the hall: The farmers thanked you.]] ...how important the Polish agriculture sector is in Poland. [[Applause]] And to sum up that Polish agriculture is important to us and that the development of Polish agriculture is important, I will quote the words that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said from this speaker, and were... [[The farmers thanked you.]] ...beautiful words, because he said that there would be no strong Polish economy if there was no strong Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Not only does the Prime Minister speak beautifully, but he also dances.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u217	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, PO-KO. [[And farmers are on strike. Bravo!]] [[How can you lie like that, sir?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the draft budget for 2019, there is no need to look for increases for 2 million workers in the budgetary sphere. That's why policemen, nurses, court workers have already been on strike... [[Farmers.]] ...teachers, customs officers. [[Prosecutor's office.]] Mr Telus! Farmers have already realized that the PiS tricked them in the election campaign and all of them. [[Applause]] The benefits went out on the street. [[Voice from the hall: Thank you.]] However, I would like the Minister of Finance to tell citizens whether the budget is in great shape, as the Prime Minister of Morawiecki argued two days ago, whether it is in such a poor form, that the Polish state cannot afford to raise the number of officials who every day ensure the functioning of the state despite the chaos that the PiS government introduces in every field of life. And for this chaos you paid 2 million zlotys of prizes, and for 3 years you showed figs with poppy. In the election year, to get people's eyes off, attention, the PiS government says it's freezing their wages off. [[Received in the days of the Civic Platform and PSL.]] [[Voice from the room: After 3 years.]] How much, Minister? By 2.3%, which is what inflation is. Minister, you know you can't call this a raise. There won't be any more money. [[Applause]] [[Now we need to unfreeze.]] Yet to the state budget from the sealing of the tax system were supposed to flow a wide stream of tens of billions of zlotys, and according to some Members of the PiS, even hundreds of billions. However, the higher influence the Minister of Finance has is largely the result of the economic cycle. [[And they're lucky again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you have all, even PiS members of the VAT investigation committee, have learned that there is such a thing as a business cycle, then finally start chasing real VAT frauds, and don't go after a witch, especially since every shot you fire on this committee is just a bullet in the fence. [[The voice from the room: Something like that.]] If you'd really sealed the tax system, you'd have enough money for budget workers. Real statemen wouldn't run from administration to the market. On the other hand, on the one hand, you have Mr. Chrzanowski and on the other hand Mr. Kwasniak, you choose Chrzanowski. [[Applause]] I'm wondering if you care about real statemen, or whether you care about chefs. Let's get back to sealing. [[To the budget.]] [[And what is Chrzanowski?]] The rapporteur said that sealing is very important for the government. It's important, but nothing from your sealing. In March 2016, Minister Skiba in the Sejm loudly announced that nothing so sealed the tax system as the Central Register of Invoices. And we agree, we recommended it to you. You found this in a drawer at the Ministry of Finance. We supported this project, the whole Sejm seems to have voted for it, certainly the Civic Platform. In April, Minister Skiba said this: time is important, because if we look at numbers, the figures are that the VAT gap is 40 billion PLN. You can say that the delay by 1 month is 3 billion PLN. Therefore, each month is really important, because each month is over PLN 3 billion less VAT revenue. These are the words of your finance minister. It's December 2018, and the Central Register of Invoices is gone. It's been 32 months. According to Minister Skiby's calculations, the VAT gap for which PiS is responsible is PLN 96 billion. [[Applause]] And I wonder if D.D.A. Ziobro will send the CBA to the finance minister at about an hour. 6 a.m. not only for slowness, but also for complete inability. If he was able to send them to Kwasniak and Jakub for keeping up with the administrative decision procedure, then it seems that for 96 billion it's like nothing in the morning. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Too late.]] [[I don't know.]] [[Voice from the room: half to six.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u219	Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleagues have already told us about what is most painful in this budget or the parabuddenery. I only have one minute, because our agricultural minister will have to say things that are very important to us. I expect you to understand. And I want, among other things. to tell you why I am applying to reject the project at second reading. The first one didn't work out. The reason is not only what we talked about before, i.e. the imbalanced, unbalanced budget, the lack of movements in tax scales, the lack of any social perspective in the sense of many years. One of the reasons is that our budget is still the same as Mr Pard said, but not in terms of what and how much we give, but in terms of the complete lack of a new approach to construction, a new way of planning state expenditure and revenue. We do not see any attempt in this House to reform the budgetary system. We are still thinking about the budget only within our Ministry Poland, which unfortunately is our weakness, which makes us unable to move forward. It is high time we threw this budget in the trash and started talking about budgets that really are development budgets, budgets that have a new concept that doesn't assume that the government has very little room for manoeuvre, because all very big money goes to agencies, to special funds, etc. We're really just pretending about everything else. The lack of forward thinking, the lack of new thinking about the budget does not allow us to recognize that this budget is different, new. The rest of the time is for our farmer friend. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u221	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about the draft state budget in several areas. Right at the beginning I point out, quoting the old saying that even the best winds do not help those who do not know which port they are about to wrap up. We know very well what our port is: this is Poland, these are Poles, these are ordinary people, this is sustainable development, this is solidarity taking care of all areas of state development. [[Applause]] This is what our budget is about. It's a little painful for you that we found areas in the budget of the state that you abandoned: multi-child families, poor children. That's what we took out. [[You're lying.]] Now we have the opportunity to develop because people want to live in Poland. [[It's the most important thing.]] Remember this: people want to live in Poland. In your day, they emigrated. [[To yours.]] [[Now they're emigrating more.]] Now they want to live in Poland, want to learn, want to work here, want to start companies. The data is very specific. [[Room voice: CUS, stats.]] It hurts a little, but maybe you'll get over it. [[Voice from the hall: But don't yell like that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the economy or the budget is an area that can be talked about in percent and in figures. Your screams won't bother me, 'cause I'm just gonna operate on those percentages. So I'm going to warn you that I'm not going to mention your names or refer to you, but I'm just going to say what's in the budget from the formal-mathematical side, and just so we're clear. What I'm saying is, for example. in the area of construction, there are very criticisms of such items, where we increase the expenditure three times. It goes on for example. about expenditure on powering the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. [[For who?]] In this area, we simply secure financial resources, e.g. for social construction, for the so-called. aid to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Polish state secures all that is connected with the current activity in this area, one can say, in this poorest part, the sphere of construction. There's no problem here. [[Yeah, M+ didn't work out.]] And that, unfortunately, hurts a lot. We just know exactly what our priorities are, but we also know very well how to spend money. [[That's what we know, really. Rewards and foundations.]] Because priorities aren't that important. The important thing is how we spend this money, and we spend it very well. As far as construction is concerned, we also secure financial resources in this area, which is best seen in the special provisions. This is about PLN 570 million. If only someone wants, they can easily read and notice that there are very interesting items related e.g. with the rent subsidy scheme in the first years of renting the apartment. It wasn't in your day, it is now. Are you worried about that? Don't worry, because it's for people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But there were other, better programs.]] Communications. As far as communications are concerned, we obviously have a very small field to play here, because in this part of 26, let's say, the expenditure of the state budget year by year is 108,5%. If you want, discuss it. It was 100%. , today is 108%. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have some interesting things in the area of transport that I want to say very clearly. Namely in section 39 on transport we planned expenditure - of course for 2019 - of 41 130 470 thousand. zł. If someone says they can't see the investment that the train is delayed, then I want to answer that the investment phase on the roads, on the railroad that it was in 2018 and what it was going to be like in 2019 wasn't in your time, it just wasn't there. [[It may be someday, but it's not here yet.]] Now we have to get off this investment hill slowly... [[You guys had an investment hill?]] ...because there really were some kind of difficulty and indeed trains could drive slower because there were a lot of investments. You just have to understand. There's no need for even math here, just common sense. [[Mr GUS, go to GUS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, over PLN 19 billion of road infrastructure from this budget is earmarked for the road infrastructure and certainly very well secured funding for the expenditure of the National Road Fund and expenditure from the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is almost 105%. versus last year. Please discuss that this is not 99%, 98% , only 105%. I'm asking for some polemics. Rail transport. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 we are planning to spend over PLN 17 billion on railway infrastructure. That'll be 15 million... And here it is, ladies and gentlemen, interesting information for you that 144% of the national railway programme will be allocated versus last year. Let's hear it. [[Applause]] 144% - Please discuss it. [[Sir, to the cabaret.]] Railway infrastructure management costs. Ladies and gentlemen, none of your ministers have ever thought of this. For the first time, over PLN 3 billion are foreseen in the state budget for the costs of managing railway infrastructure. This is a very interesting new position... [[Yeah, 'cause they're presidents.]] ...and this is where congratulations are due to the Ministry, the Minister, that he thought of it. [[This is very interesting, indeed.]] Rail passenger services. Ladies and gentlemen, 141% in relation to 2018. We also have a position such as the financing of inter-voivodship and international rail services - 108,26%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is money, there are secured funds for infrastructure projects implemented by the European Union together with the expenditure of the Centre for EU Transport Projects. This is over PLN 4300 million. The funds are secured, the investments are ongoing, there will be purchases, the money will be able to be expanded e.g. Metro, buy trams, use this money from a local government unit. Security - a very important issue. I'd like you to discuss this with me, too. Year to year 128% we are dedicated to the tasks carried out by the Chief Road Transport Inspector. So for this year we have 201 million, which is almost 30% year-on-year. More. Aviation tasks. We're increasing funding for aviation tasks. We know that there are no pilots in general in Europe and in the world, so we spend 6 million more money so that schools can train pilots. You're welcome to discuss it. I'm not gonna talk about the revenue of the state budget. They're less important. On the other hand, I can tell you very clearly and precisely that all the items described in your budget, such as the national road construction programme, are settled, no problem. [[Which you can see on the roads.]] Such items as the railway station reconstruction program - no problem. [[You got it.]] The railway infrastructure management program - no problem, is settled. [[Applause]] [[No problem. Ha, ha, ha!]] Modernization of the rolling stock park - problem solved, will be new locomotives, new cars. Road safety program done. [[Everything's gonna be fine. Nothing yet.]] The national railway programme - no problem, done. Investment in multimodal transport - is development. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it hurts you so much, because big countries are And big projects too. If we're talking about Central Communication Port, it hurts you so much that the Law and Justice government thought of building a great port in the middle of Europe. By the way, work in this area goes on and this is a task for a decade. [[A pile in Szczecin, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be something for Podkarpacie. On December 21st, Friday, next week, will be the signing of the last contract for the construction of the last section of Via Carpatia in Podkarpacie. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Why don't you want to appreciate that the government of law and justice has been determined to build a new strategic... He approached the construction of a new communication channel north-south. And since Via Carpatia is very well seen by different countries in Europe, you probably want to assign it to us, treat us like a failure, and you don't. [[Bull's-eye.]] That's bull's-eye, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if I've run out of time or not. [[Now.]] Let me tell you something else. [[It's a culmination.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as tasks are concerned... [[Something nice for everyone.]] ...which are described in the state budget in the area of railway, road, airport infrastructure, that is to say, the full security of these tasks. If this isn't enough for you, look at the state budget, you'll read about it there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u223	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, PO-KO, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By quoting my predecessor, you're dealing with all the problems that the Minister of Education has done to local governments and teachers, [[Applause]] Pretty much the same. The problem is solved. On the sign of protest against underestimation of educational costs, the Joint Government and Local Government protested, negatively assessed the draft regulation on the distribution of the educational part of the general subsidy for 2019. The state between words and deeds has not so much a gap as depression, you might say. Absolute depression and this depression is unfortunately given to some. But local governments know exactly how you lie. A few numbers. Last year Warsaw spent PLN 52 million on the liquidation of junior high schools, on the first part of your deformity. At the end of this unfortunate project, 30 million more are needed, and MEN returned 3.5 million to City Hall. Łódź - adapting schools to the requirements of deformity and checks for exempt teachers cost the city PLN 7.5 million in 2017 and 2018. MEN returned 710,000. [[How many schools did they take out?]] Now, if you'll just start counting, I'm afraid it's costing everything. After the liquidation of secondary schools in 2019, the so-called "high school" will go to secondary schools. It's a double vintage. That's not gonna be $350,000. Kids, but 727,000, that's how many of these kids are gonna be. There will still be tens of thousands of six-year-olds, so together in the first classes they will meet fourteen times. - 15- and 16-year-olds. The Koszalin government hopes that only in 2019, during the last 4 months of the year, it will require more than PLN 1 million than they will have to add to what you are giving. In Krakow this double yearbook will be 13 350 students, over 7 thousand. children more. So far, in the first classes, the Kraków people prepared about 5 thousand. Places now have over 13,000. places to prepare. The question is, where's the money for it? There's no money. On the other hand, Małopolska's heroic curator Barbara Nowak says: everything is well thought out, calm the students and their parents. The directors were forced to reduce the number of classes in the last two years to prepare space for this double yearbook. And now, attention, probation officer, I quote her, too, and she says, "I'm gonna get the consequences from the directors." The director who couldn't handle it is fit to be fired. So the principals have to push their kids out of school in such a way that there's room for a double yearbook. Instead of giving money for it, instead of supporting local governments, you're making a mess, and there's no money for it. In the 2019 Budget Act, you planned 2800 million more for education subsidies. This includes not only all the budget expenditure on the base, the preparation, the adjustment to this unfortunate reform of yours, but also the 5% increase for teachers. The local government says it's $5 billion short. You planned for this by 5 billion too little and do not send local authorities, as Minister Zalewska says, to the budget reserve, because this 0.4 percent subsidy is in light respect about 183 million PLN, and it needs 5 billion. How do you plan, how do you estimate that you owe local governments such terrible money? It's nothing yet. The minister goes out on the stand and she's just happy and happy. He sums up his reform and thinks everything's okay. He says schools aren't made of rubber, so they didn't shrink, you could say. The students are pushed into middle school. But in this middle school, you did elementary school, so where are the high school students supposed to fit in? No money, no plan, no chaos, no mess, no nerves - who needs it? You just can't count. We have planned, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, an amendment in which we want to allocate PLN 2 billion to local governments, even those two billion, to improve their premises and mitigate the consequences of this unfortunate double yearbook that the PiS government has given them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u225	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Deals are to be kept. If you make a promise, you have to keep it. I will use the 2015 Election Gazeta. You wrote here: less and less money for agriculture. You wrote that the Civic Platform and PSL coalition beats its... is getting lower funding for agriculture. It states that agriculture should be financed at least 1.2% GDP. There is a beautiful table: in 2007 funding at the level of 1.3 and then decline, decline, all the time decline, this is visible. What's going on? At this point, we have an even greater drop than we had before, 1.5. billions less. How do you keep your promises? There is no money to finance the work of veterinarians, agricultural advisors, agency staff. If this continues, there won't be anyone to work at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The financing of agriculture at 0.5% of national expenditure is the lowest financing of agriculture so far. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u227	Thank you, sir. I ask for the floor of Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear fellow countrymen! One of the messengers tried to explain to you what the day of tax freedom was. I don't know what university she got that definition from, but it's totally cool with the one that's in force. I would like to say to you that the day on which the total income from the beginning of the year is equal to the tax obligations for this year, the day on which symbolically citizens stop paying the State and start earning themselves, is precisely the day of tax freedom. For information, I would like to state that in 2018 this day of tax freedom was 6 June, and in 2013 it was 22 June. As taxes, tax burdens are lower, we, as taxpayers, stop paying liabilities to the State more quickly. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, the measure of whether the PiS raises taxes or not. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The financial resources allocated to health protection from year to year are increasing. You'd want them to grow significantly. Unfortunately, in the years of government of PO and PSL growth was minimal. Such a policy was maintained in view of the fact that some wanted to privatise health protection as soon as possible, so that this sector could finally be managed privately, in private hands. Unfortunately, social expectations in this area are not decreasing, so in 2019 Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government proposes to secure funding of 4,9% gross domestic product. This level is 0.06% higher gross domestic product from the indicator adopted in the timetable to the 6% level of expenditure. According to the agreed expenditure growth schedule in 2019 this indicator was to be 4.84% gross domestic product. Hence, it is concluded that the government has established an acceleration of the rate of arrival to 6%. Gross domestic product - indicator announced in the programme of Law and Justice the level of health expenditure. In the state budget for 2019, health expenditure is planned for a total amount of PLN 97.6 billion, i.e. by more than 7.6 billion more than in 2018 and by more than 800 million more than the legal reference value adopted. Total expenditure in the health care department was planned without special provisions at the level of nearly PLN 7950 million, and with special provisions it will amount to almost PLN 8440 million. After taking into account expenditure on traineeships and medical specialisations included in the plan of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and health care expenditure planned in the Gambling Problems Fund, the expenditure secured by the government will amount to PLN 10 683 million. With the expenditure planned in the budget of European funds it will amount to PLN 11 566 million, and after taking into account the funds included in the National Health Fund, we get the full amount that will be spent on health care next year, which will amount to PLN 97 600 million. The Minister of Health will have at his disposal an amount of 300 million higher than this year. It will amount to PLN 5400 million. Of these funds, the government proposes to allocate the most to the implementation of 17 health programmes, including two multiannual programmes in the area of cancer and transplantation. For this purpose, it secures the amount of PLN 1460 million, i.e. by PLN 61 million more than this year. The government plans to increase the expenditure on medicines for people over 75 years of age by 90 million and proposes to allocate PLN 733 million for this purpose. Our seniors had to propose a drug scandal and a drug merry-go-round. We remember who said: exporting drugs from Poland is a better business than dealing drugs. The government has also secured a higher amount of PLN 94 million for high-specialization services and has allocated PLN 544 million for this purpose, which is 100% it will cover the need for this type of medical service. There is a chance that in 2019 the condition that has been desired for years by patients waiting for highly specialised medical services will be reached. The Government of Law and Justice proposes a significant increase in funding and co-financing of projects with European Union funds by 51% compared to 2018, with an increase of 62.4% in European funds in this area. In total, the government secured almost PLN 950 million for this purpose. The budget of the Minister of Health for the implementation of investments in clinical hospitals is planned for the amount of PLN 551 million. Almost 85% These measures are proposed by the government to direct seven multi-annual investment programmes, including for years under way. The new headquarters of the Kraków-Prokocim University Hospital. The secured funds in the opinion of the university authorities guarantee the completion of the investment next year. As a result of changes to the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and Science, the budget of the Minister of Health has shifted competence. It was the responsibility of the Minister of Health to finance medical universities, while the medica college, some of the major universities, is financed by the Minister of Science and Higher Education. This explains the decrease in expenditure planned for 2019 in Part 46: Health compared to the plan after the changes for 2018. In fact, there is a 0.7% increase in the planned expenditure on science in this respect. In addition, the special-purpose reserves are secured with funds, over PLN 900 million, to finance increases for university staff. This amount also includes funds for increases in medical institutions. In addition, the government proposes to secure in the financing plan of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund the amount of PLN 2200 million, i.e. 90% more than was planned for 2018. These funds will finance compulsory post-graduate training for more than 4500 doctors and dentists who took internships in 2018 and previous years, as well as for over 4600 graduates of medical and dental faculties next year. This amount also guarantees funds to increase the remuneration of basic trainees. In addition, this amount guarantees funding for about 22 thousand. residents and secures funds for increases in basic salary. Next year, 4200 residents will be launched - 600 in the spring selection process and 3,600 in the autumn. In the budget, the government has also secured funding for a minimum of 8495 training places for nurses and midwives. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 2019 budget for health protection prepared by the Law and Justice Government is a good budget. It guarantees improved medical care for patients and improved working conditions and development of medical staff. It secures funding at a higher level than in 2018. But only by rational and reliable spending will society be able to feel that the health situation is improving. Next year, the Government of Law and Justice intends to introduce new mechanisms in the system for the valorisation of pensions. With a view to ensuring financial security for seniors and, in particular, the poorest recipients, it proposes to modify the current principles of valorisation. The new rules, discussed today in the Seym, guarantee a faster increase in the lowest pensions. As a result of these changes in 2019 the annual valorisation of pensions will be exceptionally high. This high valorization has never happened before. Retired people are still at risk of poverty. The changes proposed by the government by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in the pension valorization system will for the first time cover the value of the amount-percent. All pensions will be increased by 3.26%. Nobody gets less than 70 zlotys. The lowest pension will be increased to PLN 1100 and the lowest pension will be increased to PLN 825. The minimum increase in valorisation in the case of a partial incapacity pension for work and invalidity pension of Group III shall be 75% the guaranteed minimum amount, i.e. PLN 52.50. The proposed modification of the valorisation rules will also apply to pensions of individual farmers, uniformed services, bridge pensions and teacher compensation benefits. The changes proposed by the Government of Law and Justice in the system will ensure that the real value of all pension benefits paid is protected and that the majority of pensioners, as expected, receive higher increases. The new legislation on the valorisation of pensions will cover 4.7 million pensioners, 105 000. persons on pre-retirement benefits, 281 000. people receiving social pensions and 1.14 million people on pensions from KRUS. The changes will benefit most from those who receive the lowest benefits, i.e. those who receive less than PLN 2147.30. The government estimates that the cost of the entire pension valorisation operation in 2019 will be significantly higher than in 2018 and will amount to PLN 8381 million. The introduction of quota changes will result in the need to introduce an additional PLN 1495 million into the system. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise, because we are often told that we are lucky - everyone is a blacksmith of his own happiness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u229	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Prime Minister praised Minister Zalewska for a consistent reform, although in one sentence, which gives hope that he himself was not convinced and praised, because he had to, but he praised. What are the facts? The way the government treats teachers shows the example of Magdalena Dygala, a teacher with a 20-year internship who has a chance at a Nobel school this year, a World Teacher Award. As one of the 50 teachers from all over the world, she is the only Polish who is selected for the Nobel teacher competition for her brilliant way of teaching. Well, this teacher has been looking for a new job for two years. Today he works in a school that is closed down, where there are two middle school classes and one high school class, and he knows that since September, when middle school students finish their education, there will simply be no work for her, but also for other teachers. [[Aren't the first classes coming? Aren't the first classes coming?]] This teacher has a 20-year internship, so she's probably a certified teacher. I would like to mention the data that the trade union recently presented, the amount that this teacher has today's chance to get, what salary. Well, according to the belt shown by the Solidarity, this is PLN 3317 gross, on the hand of PLN 2775. And how much more will he get after this noise announced by the Law and Justice raise? Well, less than 140 zlotys more. [[And for eight years, how much did she get?]] [[50%.]] Ladies and gentlemen, during this eight-year period, teachers received a 50% raise because you left their salaries at such a level that their wages had to be saved. [[Applause]] If you'd given at least 25% over the last four years, that would have been good. [[It wouldn't be bad.]] Our government gave teachers 50% in the first five years. Today, not only the Polish Teachers' Union is protesting, but also the Solidarity Union, which has so far stood side by side in the reform of education. Today they say no. Teachers say we've had enough and start protesting. Some of the teachers have announced that they will be going to mass L4 as of Monday. They have learned from police officers. This shows how the Government of Law and Justice treats teachers. You took oversized hours away from them, forced them to wander between schools. Records to raise 18 hours of work, they're wandering between five schools. You said you'd cancel your card hours, but the unions are alarming you: teachers have hidden free hours within the framework of... [[In your day, they were unemployed.]] ...statute duties of the school. And that's the reform you've introduced. The local governments in the committee of the common government and the local government say with regard to last year's increases in teachers' salaries that 600 million PLN is missing. It was the local governments who put money out of their own pocket to keep teachers' wages at this level. This debt will increase because if this year you do not compensate the local governments for this 600 million PLN, there will be an additional hole in the budget of local governments for the next years. Therefore, given the good of Polish education, while respecting the Polish teacher, respecting those wonderful teachers who do not look at wages, do not look at the chaos at school, but organize education as best as they can, we propose an amendment to the budget, an increase in educational subsidies by an additional 2 billion PLN and a minimum increase of 10% for teachers in 2019. [[Applause]] [[What source are you pointing at? What source are you pointing at?]] This amendment is submitted by the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition. And one of the Members who spoke of rebuilt mail, I recommend checking the municipality of Pilchowice. The post office in Żernica was opened and after 2 months closed by Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Did they open it? They've opened it.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u231	Please take the floor of Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This is a very important debate about expenditure projections, state revenue for 2019. Such a debate is always received with great interest, with curiosity by many social, professional and professional groups, by Polish families. This is a very serious and responsible debate. I am very pleased to be able to participate in the discussion of the budget of the Government of Law and Justice, which during the election year, because we are talking about 2019, is a responsible budget. If I were to speak briefly about this budget, I would say that this is a good budget, but if I were to speak longer, I would say that this is a very good budget, because it expresses the great discipline of decision-makers, government, finance minister - because he is the first to bring this document to the Council of Ministers and then this document goes to the Sejm - and holds certain rigors. It is a document concerning the electoral year in which the deficit is again decreasing on a horrendous scale: from PLN 41.5 billion to over 28 billion... [[Yet.]] ...though we know that this year the deficit will be made at a level lower than half the planned. As for what one of my previous speakers said about the primary deficit, if we subtract the amount necessary to pay interest, it would show that we do not actually have a deficit. [[Manipulation, manipulation.]] And that's a serious observation. Ladies and gentlemen, here was a dispute just now in the Chamber about how many more people have returned to Poland in the last 3 years and during the 8 years when the Platform and the Polish People's Party coalition ruled. If you walk in front of the Sejm, they tell such a story that during the previous coalition more people returned to Poland, but only to take the rest of the things. [[Applause]] [[What a joke, sir.]] Now they really are coming back because they see the hope of solid treatment. You wanted to fix public finances, but you had a lot of trouble with it, because a lot of people didn't trust you, i.e. it did not take into account that the knowledge provided on how to seal the tax system could be correct, accurate and well-developed. It has not been well-developed. Today, the members of the VAT commission are astonished to see that they are able to produce documents that were produced during the PO-PSL period, read within 20 minutes, about documents that would cause the system to be sealed or at least give it such a rank that it would not be subject to tax erosion. That obviously didn't work out for you. You're worried that the people who are to appear before one or another committee have to get up at an hour. 6 a.m., and I want to say that government members, people who worked at the Ministry of Justice - not only at the facility on the street. About 2,300 people work there, but in the whole structure, or 63 thousand. people - every day for several years they got up earlier than at hours. 6:00 a.m. to get ready. They've done their job, prepared thousands of pages of documents. In the first year of governing, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said, it was about 30,000. the pages of the documents. The finance resort and then the justice resort were the leading resorts that prepared the reform. Today I do not take away anyone, the opposition also, the power to rejoice about what has happened to us. This is really a cause for joy, because it was about billions of zlotys that flowed through a wide stream. Before I go over part of the budget in a telegraph shortcut - these are the parts at the disposal of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - you will allow me to take you once again on a short tour of these documents, whose adoption has translated into this milestone, a civilization leap in terms of eliminating tax erosion, which is a crazy difficult issue, for which many people did not have an idea. I think that these people were more likely to collect statistical data than they had the courage to touch this matter, because we, as the government of law and justice, have touched this matter courageously, not subtlely, but such a working, organized matter. Previously, it was not in anyone's head that it was possible to monitor the transport of goods for which smugglers avoided the tax system without paying CIT without paying excise duty without paying VAT. We have created a SENT 1, 2, 3 system for freight transport in the context of land traffic on roads, rail, we monitor vehicles. Almost no European country has that. The elements of such a system were probably used by Hungarians, but no one wanted to deal with the organisation of such a system in connection with the opening of borders. Single control file. The platform keeps saying it was their idea. But to what extent, ladies and gentlemen? Rachitic, small, none. In their release it did not produce any system effects, it did not allow data aggregation, to perform appropriate analysis, to direct control immediately where you can see fraud. We introduced this system, made it advanced... [[You've improved, haven't you?]] ...we gave him a logical dimension, a statistical dimension. It's developed by machines, programs, and it's a tool in human hands. It's not like I'm going to the company for control and I'm putting a flash drive into the system if anyone lets me, because I have the authority, because you've noticed that, and then I'm analyzing data on one entity, and I only get data on millions of entities and tens of millions, hundreds of millions of business transactions. This way, you can clog up those places where taxes come from. VAT reversed. The EU directive clearly recommended this and developed countries used reverse VAT, but in Poland it started to be used as a means of protecting against leakage 8 years later than in other countries. VAT reversed in construction - a horrendous, courageous decision. Contrary to many authorities, even those recognised, from the front pages of the newspapers, with professorship titles, the Government of Law and Justice introduced regulation, which immediately resulted in a certain wave, a tsunami, it's about 7 and 10 billion, I'm not afraid to say it, additional VAT revenues, [[Applause]] That's what they're holding on to. Ladies and gentlemen, the EMCS system... But the fight against the Mafia not only VAT, the one that smuggled alcohol, cigarettes, other goods, textiles - on a large scale - is due to the reform of the National Tax Administration. You remember when we started: 5,000. People on sick leave, full obstruction. [[You have full police obstruction right now.]] [[We made it.]] [[What are you saying? But the police were on parole.]] The pope is coming on World Youth Day, threatening to open the border... The Ministry of Finance faced this issue - and rightly so. We moved competences, gave wider competences to various services, not just tax agencies, and this has been a good result. This actually causes - in the whole argument over whether the Law and Justice raise taxes, whether it raises taxes or not, and how many times it has increased, counting various types of regulations and even microregulations - that the day of tax freedom, which the Prime Minister said was about, as we will count the years from 2011 to 2017, comes 2 weeks earlier. What does that mean two weeks earlier? Half a month's pay goes into the pocket of someone who's earning. Half a month's pay. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Yes.]] I lived in the UK for four years, just when Margaret Thatcher tried to save public finances. What did she do? She took half a month's wages from every British man into the state budget. [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]] And what did we do? We gave it back. We had the courage not to increase the deficit immediately... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Wiesław!]] We didn't just take anybody. We gave the money. [[Applause]] And what does it turn out to be? That consumer demand is the main basic leverage. We are not ashamed of this, although we would prefer other aggregates to be present. But, ladies and gentlemen, five quarters in a row of GDP growth, one of the highest in Europe - 5%. Does that mean anything to you? This is the joy of co-creation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And demand.]] Every idea with which we could come to us during a thousand meetings in the framework of the peregrination entitled "Poland is one" - we listened to over a thousand meetings of hundreds of thousands of Poles - it will be developed because this government has the courage to act, has the courage to work, has the courage - these people who work here - late to go to sleep and get up early. And the diligence of some, I hope all members of the government is that Benedictine diligence at times is simply less or overrated. [[Bravo, Wiesław!]] [[That's why the prizes belonged.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return consistently... The IT system of the clearing house - one more trip. For years, for more than 20 years in Poland, there was a money laundering system. All banks have entered inside the institution, there's a bill, there's an inspector... Everyone in Europe got so used to this system that it did not actually fulfil its role, acted too slowly, to too little statistical extent. We have given competence to the brave man, the minister, the head of the KAS, Marian Banasi, who alone decides that the money is being detained before they go to tax havens. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[In Luxembourg, too, from the SKOKs?]] This has not yet come from this podium, but, ladies and gentlemen, this day of tax freedom could have come earlier for one reason - the state was saving itself by raising the VAT rate, which was at 6,7 billion a year at that time, in 2011, today would have given a little more. But we saved money that flowed through a wide stream, unregistered... [[The ones from the SKOKs, too?]] ...the money that the state under the PO-PSL regime has sought under joint and several responsibility in the pockets of ordinary citizens, micro-, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and family businesses... [[Especially the owners of the SKOKs.]] ...because joint and several responsibility emphasized that it was taken from those people who had money left or could be recovered from, but certainly not from poles and not from those specialists who were transporting money to tax havens. [[Applause]] [[SKOK Volumine.]] [[That's not true.]] Sorry about the trip. [[Volomin, please.]] I have a lot to say, but, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say that these people who have made these gigantic, brave changes, sometimes they don't know about sophistication, they don't know about ethics, they don't know about the art of arguing. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] You guys are good at this. I admire that; many of these people, working modestly, probably couldn't have told you intensively that black is white [[Joy in the Chamber]] Or that white is colorful... [[That's what you're champions are.]] ...but some people can do it, and it's art. I am impressed, I encourage you to do this because Parliamentary debate must have its colors, it must have its temperature. Today, the budget debate has a temperature that many people like. [[You guys can do it.]] [[Voice from the hall: You have taken a reward for this work.]] But there are also facts that empower us to have this debate with all the tools that exist in communication and in human dialogue, so let us use them with all our freedom. Nobody's gonna limit it. [[All you have to do is tell the truth.]] [[You don't need smart words, just tell the truth.]] Ladies and gentlemen, briefly, the parts I was about to tell you about. A great joy in terms of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, because: In 2017, the implementation of defence expenditure amounted to more than 37 billion, in the current year, 2018 this expenditure will increase by 3.7 billion, and in the planned year 2019 will reach almost 45 billion. Poland fulfills NATO-Wskie's commitment [[Applause]] in this respect and is one of the leading countries in the world, is shown as a model and listed by Donald Trump in this range. [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, bear such a burden of expenses, plan them well and order them in Polish companies. [[Well, that's wonderful.]] Let me give you an example of the transaction from today or yesterday. Today, a press conference is held at the weapons plant in Tarnów, where the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak decided to buy manufactured, designed from start to finish mortars with a number of 670 pieces. We do not buy from abroad and also missiles for this device we will buy from the Polish factory. So we have some independence. I think there will also be international contracts for this facility, and thousands of people have been working there for years. And these are the little things we're happy about. Let me just mention that Poland is fulfilling all international obligations in the area of the Alliance, NATO. We have stationed troops of NATO-Wskie troops, U.S. troops in Poland, near Orzysz, the command center of the multi-national division in Elbląg. This is a serious treatment of allies' obligations and seeking Poland to be a highly valued partner also in these spheres, in military spheres, of which, I will tell you honestly, it is better not to talk, but it is worth to enjoy how well they work. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have an exemplary budget. Neither the relevant committees had any comments nor the finance committee. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, it was actually a minute's discussion on this subject, with all the procedures being carried out. [[What do you mean?]] So I just wish you a good implementation of the budget and that you manage to spend this money because that's what we're cleared for. They have been guaranteed thanks to a good budgetary position, but this must also be done. And let me briefly talk about the budget of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Here we have a slightly different situation, because there were two amendments tabled during the work of the Public Finance Committee, but we know why. There was a high temperature of discussion before the national march. It's a record number of participants. Many people were concerned that we were able to accept a manifestation in Poland, which will gather so many people, as the street in Poland has not seen such a collection of people for 30 years. Here congratulations to all the organizers involved and to the participants themselves, that they have shown such a picture all over the world, and above all in Europe and France... [[We are talking about the budget, sir. The subject is the budget.]] ...who we sympathize with... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir! Bravo!]] ...that you can peacefully manifest your great joy in the century of regaining independence. [[What are they saying? Budget.]] Please state that expenditure from the budget of the State Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is accumulated in such parts as: public administration, internal affairs, religious religions, national and ethnic minorities, regional accounting chambers, and in this area together amount to... [[Zieliński's waiting for the confetti.]] ...over PLN 23 490 million, and are 9.4% higher. It's a lot more than that. Expenditure from European funds, not worth talking about, is only PLN 49 million. But what is important, let's see. Police, total funding for police funding - over 11 billion, 13.7% Growth; Border Guard - 1,8 billion, 13.5% Growth - Fairly - State Protection Service - 11,9% Growth, 3.1 billion. The same applies to workers not uniforms, but to those who work in the back. We also have salary increases here. And maybe I'll just concentrate on that at the end. I'll give you a couple of sizes. Officers, in accordance with the agreement signed on 8 November - remember the temperature of this dialogue - between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the social party represented by representatives of trade unions of the department of Home Affairs and Administration, will receive from 1 January of the financial year in question, 2019 an increase in salary of an average monthly amount of PLN 655 per job. The increase in salaries will be covered by more than 153 thousand. Officers. This is so that after the implementation of all increases the average monthly salary together with the annual prize will reach the level in the Police and Border Guard respectively 5651 PLN and 5560 PLN, and in the State Protection Service - 6733 PLN. [[Voice from the room: Finish now.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] So much for me. Thank you kindly for your patience with my statement. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My predecessor spoke so beautifully of people who work for you. He was happy with their work and admired the work. I will also begin by thanking Mr. Wojciech Kwaśniak for everything he has done for our country. [[Applause]] And I also want to apologize for what this country has done for him lately. Now, let's get to the point. Thank you also to Minister Rafalska - I might start strangely - for the fact that the next year continues all the good things introduced in the pro-family policy by the Civic Platform - PSL coalition, i.e. 1 year parental leave, 1 000. PLN for each we have for a year after the birth of the child at least, the Large Family Card, the program "Milk," free textbooks, kindergarten for gold and many, many other programs. But since my time is limited, I will no longer mention them. You've completed all the good things about your flagship program, which is 500+. It was supposed to be universal, prodemographic, and unsocial. And in fact, he's almost universal, because not much more than 50%. Polish children use it, which means that almost 50% does not benefit from this program. So with this universality, let's not exaggerate. It was supposed to be prodemographic. It is difficult to assess after 2 years, because probably demography specialists - I bow very low to Prof. Iren Kotowska - will say that 2 years is too short to assess whether it works prodemographically. And it was supposed to be an unsocial program. We were often accused in committee proceedings that we did not understand that 500+ was a prodemographic program, universal, under no circumstances unsocial. However, you are also talking about how much he has improved the situation in relation to the spreading scissors between revenues. So it is prosocial, and I have to say that it helps children very much and improves their material situation, including those children whose parents pay solidarity, because their earnings exceed PLN 1 million a year. But it doesn't include single parents, most often I have those who work for the lowest national and have one child. These have 500+ do not get because they exceed the amount of 800 PLN if they work for the lowest amount, or 2 thousand. zł. It's not 800 zł per person in the family, it's more because it counts gross. Moreover, they cannot reach the maintenance fund if their partners do not pay child support, because there the amount entitlement to the maintenance fund is PLN 725 and from 1 October 2019 this criterion will increase by PLN 75 - to PLN 800. These benefits do not benefit children between 16 and 18 years of age who have a moderate disability ruling. There are a lot of things that need to be improved in pro-family politics, but this one, in order to secure the children of single parents and give them 500+, we have to do our amendment: 2 billion PLN for children raised by single parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Source of funding?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u235	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The expenditure planned in the draft budget law for 2019 in the field of science and higher education is significantly higher than in previous years. The total expenditure for higher education and education, together with the remaining amount of the planned special-purpose reserve of PLN 26.5 billion under the authority of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, is foreseen. For the amounts included in the Act for 2018 this is an increase of nearly PLN 2 billion - nominally by 8%. This increase was included in the Budget Act in the budgetary parts of ministers supervising universities and scientific units in the amount of over PLN 1 billion and in the Special Reserve part - in the amount of nearly PLN 1 billion. Public expenditure on science in relation to the equivalent amount included in the Act for 2018 at the level of PLN 7.9 billion and this is growth about PLN 0.5 billion, nominally over 6%, and in 2019 they amount to PLN 8.5 billion. This includes expenditure on science and the Polish Academy of Sciences at the disposal of the Minister of Science and Higher Education in the amount of PLN 8.2 billion. Compared to the previous year this means an increase of PLN 629 million, i.e. nominally as much as 9.3%. The special reserve assets of the Minister of Science and Higher Education included in Part 83 are funds for increasing research and development expenditures - PLN 25 million and measures planned in the budgets of other ministers in the heading: Science for the amount of PLN 193 million. On the other hand, in the area of higher education expenditure, an amount of PLN 18 080 million is planned in the Budget Act, which represents an increase of 9% again, i.e. an increase of PLN 1.5 billion. The planned expenditure on higher education for 2019 is included in the section: Higher education - over 14 billion; for the previous year this means an increase nominally by more than 5%, or more than 700 million PLN. In the special reserve under the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Higher Education, funds for increasing the remuneration of public university staff - I think this is very important information - were secured here at nearly PLN 1 billion, which means a 7% increase in the wage fund. I think that in conjunction with the reform it is It's very good and important news. Other ministers' budgets also include over PLN 3 billion. In addition, bonds of the State Treasury are also provided for the amount of PLN 3 billion. The science and higher education measures planned in the Budgetary Act are therefore significantly higher than in previous years. As regards expenditure in the area of culture, and I think this is also a very important area, especially in the year in which we celebrated the 100th anniversary of regaining independence and we often talked about culture as a pillar of independence, the funds for next year are foreseen in the amount without a small 4 billion PLN, and with special reserves exceeding 4 billion PLN and are higher by PLN 517 million compared to 2018. In addition, funds for culture and the protection of national heritage are planned in the voivod's budgets in the amount of PLN 122 million. There are also two special reserves: measures to support audiovisual production of PLN 105 million and other cultural tasks - over PLN 200 million. The activities carried out by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage provide for a systematic increase in expenditure on culture. This expenditure has already exceeded 1.1% the state budget. This is, I think, information worth emphasising. In the last 2 years, there has been an increase in cultural expenditure by more than 20%. This means, for example, better funding for artistic education, as well as more money for culture and protection of Polish heritage. This increases the access of an average citizen to cultural goods. The main expenditure is planned in the section: Culture and the protection of national heritage in the amount of over PLN 2 billion, including grants for museums - over 700 million, this is an increase of as much as 18.5%. , for cultural and art centers - 220 million PLN, for theatres - more than 200 million PLN, also a very significant increase, by more than 8% , for archives - nearly PLN 200 million, an increase by more than 11% , for the protection of monuments and the care of monuments - PLN 115 million, for philharmonics, orchestras, choirs and bands - over PLN 83 million. The Ministry expands a network of museums, which will cover white stains on the museum map of Poland. The building of the Polish History Museum was started, as you know. The budget will include funds to finance the Museum of World War II. Measures are foreseen for the co-hosting of 11 new museum institutions and 12 new cultural institutions. The National Monument Protection Fund is starting to function. The expected amount of this fund - PLN 20 million. The programmes of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage will be financed by the Culture Promotion Fund. Eight new programmes of the Minister have been set up, which, as we know, we follow, provide additional opportunities for cultural institutions to raise funds and, which is very important, NGOs. There are measures for a very important project of thermomodernisation of artistic schools. In total, 187 buildings belonging to 139 public artistic education institutions, i.e. will be modernised between 2017 and 2021. music schools, art schools, ballet schools, busses throughout the country, mainly in small and medium-sized towns; the total value of the program is more than PLN 500 million. As part of the expenditure on culture in 2019, multi-annual programmes will be implemented: - with the amount of nearly PLN 50 million, - with the amount of PLN 57 million, the construction of the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw - PLN 218 million, the construction of the complex of the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek - PLN 48 million. New music competitions and festivals will be financed. As you can see, this area is indeed strongly present in the budget and value all very important actions. Third, slightly different from the area discussed, namely the area of the economy. In the budget in heading 20: The economy is implemented the purposes supervised mainly by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and supervised and subordinate entities, such as the Main Office of Measures, the Polish Industrial Development Agency, the Polish Accreditation Centre, the Technical Supervision Office, the Patent Office and the Public Procurement Office. The objectives planned and reflected in the budget are consistent with the priorities set out in the Responsible Development Strategy and are the continuation and development of the economic change that has been set in recent years. Among the actions is the creation of better conditions for increasing industrial innovation through the implementation of projects such as the Future Industry Platform, today we have tried on this, on the cost of functioning PLN 11 million, programs for the protection of intellectual property of inventors, as well as programs such as the policy of a new opportunity, the school for the innovator. In addition, measures are planned to promote productivity strategies, implement the transformation of the economy towards a circular economy, support the development of Polish space sector entities. In recent days there have been some such very positive information for Poland that our scientists, our entrepreneurs are getting stronger in this sector. The amount of PLN 20 million is foreseen for the National Space Programme. Support for the internationalisation of the Polish economy is envisaged under the "Mode for export' project related to promotional activities, i.e. PLN 9.4 million. The next steps are to create better conditions for increasing investment efficiency, including the promotion of private investment, especially new ones. For this purpose, a total of PLN 10 million is allocated in the budget. The implementation of the revised investment support programme, which is important for the Polish economy, amounts to PLN 174.5 million. The next objective is to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy. A very significant amount of PLN 684.5 million is foreseen for this purpose. In addition, there are further emissions-related activities, rather eliminating the effects of emissions of harmful substances into the atmosphere. As we can see, in this telegraph summary, it is indeed a program that gives further impetus to the Polish economy and ensures the good functioning of institutions working for the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u237	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you listen so much, you can have the impression that everyone is thrilled. As far as I know, and I drive a lot around the country, people are delighted with your governments - they are happy, they applaud and ask for more. Policemen delighted, teachers delighted by your governments, doctors residents asked for more, disabled people applauded. [[And the farmers spontaneously too.]] I really congratulate you on your well-being, ladies and gentlemen. Four years in a row, you take away people's ability to have happiness in the form of a child. Four years in a row, you're preventing people from using public money in vitro. We've put in a program. Two-and-a-half thousand were born. children. Twenty-five thousand. Happy families. The measure of your moral decline in this subject is what your spokesperson for the rights of the child says that these children are born in a wicked way. This is the measure of your moral downfall. [[Morality maybe some other time. About the budget.]] [[Mr Pięt.]] You want morals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u239	Gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u240	I want to assure all Poles that the first day this team leaves power, we will restore the in vitro program. People with infertility will be treated properly, children will be born and people will be happy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You spent millions of dollars on your project of naprotechnology. Do you know how many children have been given birth as part of your big Radziwill program? 70. 70 versus 21,000. Happy families. That's what you know about medicine, and the measure of your moral downfall is the sharing and stigmatizing of these children. This is your moral... [[About the budget.]] Please keep your mouth shut when I say so. [[Applause]] It's medicine now, older people. Remember those passwords? 75+, seniors and drugs for free. Take a ride after the meetings, ask people 75+ how many drugs they got for free, they'll tell you. One or not at all. That's the truth, that's the program you created. You're the only team that raises official drug prices because that's what the companies want. Yeah, read about it in the papers. Read anything else. than your party releases. Take a look at normal people's lives. You'll find out what happens to drug prices. I'm following all our seniors. In January, hundreds of drugs will come out of the refund lists. But there's one cure. Tadeusz, this is a job for you, because you're the only good man in this crew, the only real socialist among all these people. There's a case for you. There's one drug where the price went down. This is baby syrup from transplants. You know, transplants, very sick kids who have to take a drug. I can't name it. We left it at the price, Tadeusz, 3:20. Do you know how much this drug costs these kids' parents today? You lowered the price from 924,93 PLN to 924,822, i.e. at 20 gr. [[He's probably different, better.]] If you understood what you were saying, perhaps I would have discussed it with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u242	If you want to give better medicine to children when this one is the only one, talk to your health minister. Tadeusz, this is a job for you. [[Applause]] The measure of your moral fall and the symbol of how you understand other people is how you treated the disabled this year in the Seym. This is something these people will never forgive you for. [[Applause]] You pushed them into the seym halls. You said it smelled bad in the Seym. We've all seen, for the first time, I'm going to mention this name, the Krynicka messenger, who was proud to walk in front of the disabled, and you guys were walking in front of the marshal's curtains. That's what these people will never forget, we won't forget. This is your moral fall, and that's why you have to step away from power. I'm going back to the budget, walking away from that morality. You haven't done anything in this budget to keep your word. You told them you'd have rehab, faster access to doctors than anyone else. Where is it all? And you have the nerve to look these people in the eye at all? And the last thing I'm going to say is also proof of your moral downfall. It's about what you've done, tampering with the lowest salary and the threshold. I made a commitment to some of the women who asked me to talk about it last night. By your tampering, cynical tampering with these sums you did so that in Poland 1,100 thousand. single parents can lose access to the maintenance fund and 500+. You're doing it consciously. That's how you set these boundaries between the thresholds and the minimum wage to get some people out of this system. This is your moral downfall. [[Applause]] In everything that has been wrong in Poland for the last two years, there is one optimistic thing: only 10 months with this team. We must all mobilize and Poland will return to normal tracks... [[You're not gonna wait.]] ...to a situation where women, children, disabled people and older people are respected, where business is concerned about business, and banks are not afraid that someone will buy them for gold, and in which we will respect the boundaries of human freedom until they violate the freedom of another human being. And I look at you all the time, Tadeusz, because we've been hanging out a lot lately... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[On TV.]] ...on TV shows. Tadeusz, you have one last chance to fix this this year. This is your last chance when your mission, your socialist mission among these people can be fulfilled. I'm asking you to. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Teach the Prime Minister, Tadeusz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u243	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u244	Thank you so much for saying that we're on TV together, or else I'd be lost. It happened three times. I'm serious now. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Well, I had a slightly different idea, but I got beat off by this speech and I have to react to it. I would like to say this: events and decisions of individuals in any party, in any political environment, in no time, can never, and should not be translated into the opinion of the whole. That's the first point. We can look into individual cases, we can look into them. Of course, we all have a tendency to be bad. The only question is, who responds to them properly and quickly. And that's what individual parties, associations and organisations can do. With regard to this budget debate, well, it's the most important day of the year in the Sejm when you're discussing the budget. It's the song about money, where money comes from and where money goes. [[And for what?]] Thank you for that word socialism. I'm not gonna yell "Socialismo" about muerte, because it's not a problem in the name. It is a word in Poland due to post-war history, PZPR etc. it has been compromised, but it is not a fatal word if you look at it from the point of view of action e.g. in the most important area - social policy. [[And don't mix it with the people.]] Yes. The fact that the Polish left, I will use this word, took care of the Church, let's say, abortion and gay, while left the self-pass of social affairs, although there were people among it - you have to give this testimony - to whom were close to these matters, that I will mention, for example, Tadeusz Tomaszewski or Mrs.Bańkowska, such people as I remember, and a colleague here, who... I'm gonna let this risky thing happen right now, but if Mrs. Lover had a bigger impact on your decisions for eight years, maybe we'd be in different places. Yeah, but the people who were sensitive to these issues in an extremely liberal environment... I'm talking in my emotions because I'm a little touched by it. Unfortunately, this is the most important thing. I agree. And it will be our society, all Poles will stand next year - this time runs quickly - before a great dilemma, because it is a question of credibility and it is a question of whether they want to return, with all our mistakes and allegations that appear, but until a time when for practically 20 years in Poland this neoliberalism and politics addressed to man with their backs... That's what happened. You can check and analyze these times online. This was most beautifully said by the former Minister of Health from the Union of Real Policy - we remember his statement - that the fact that we came to power is the price and effect of 20 years of extremely liberal politics. It's a fact that no one... Yeah, it's a little bit like this Advent song: When there was a curse from God/chart, death and fear, and heavy transgressions/closed the gates...--Yeah, because for many millions of families there was no work, hard work, jobs, overseas trips, they waited, waited and waited, and they didn't wait. It's only now that there's a program. 500+. We don't want to say it again, because it's a little tweaked, but the truth is... Here if I were Prime Minister, I would not give an example of a very good effort on culture, because it is very meaningful: 54 PLN for 8 years, 54 PLN, and we have 74 because this is some kind of signal... [[We've been building jobs, Tadeusz, and you're hungry for your hands to work.]] But don't interrupt. Don't interrupt. I have the last time, my friends. I know your emotions are moving. Me too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But let's just cut it out. Let's just cut it out, shall we? Easy, easy, I can handle it. The symbol of our governments will be - and I don't think anyone will even take it, it's beautiful, they're already going on vacation. I was a little boy. I knew it was a commune colony. She drove us, but many families, thousands, hundreds of thousands of families on vacation thanks to this 500+ can go with children, families of the rich. And that's a fact. I came up with a little bit of an idea of my own. Ladies and gentlemen, synthetically, I must proceed to synthesis. What is the result of this whole debate? What does the opposition want with us when they attack us? [[I want you to leave.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's too much tax. 10, 20, 30, taxes, how much, still looting. There are terrible words. That's what we're accused of. So, as a leech, we pull. That money's amazing. Actually, people should be on the streets by now, and it should be awful by now if all of this were to be so true. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Isn't there? Isn't there?]] [[Yesterday, the day before yesterday.]] Easy, easy. We know... I don't deny the facts. Dissatisfaction of individual professional groups - that's true. That's one thing. But what did we hear today? Why aren't there any raises? Why is there no greater valorization? Why doesn't there be more money? So they demand a miracle from us that there should be less taxes and enormous expenses. I mean, financials are arithmetic. You have to see this budget, how many billions of zlotys for what it's destined for. We accept criticism because we need it, but unfortunately not criticism. And now I propose... Because I think our weakness is the lack of communication and the lack of awareness of what it really looks like. The question is who represents who, who you stand for... who you stand for, who you fight for, what we try for, what the goals of our actions are, and who's against it. [[Chrzanowski.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be very beautiful, which was said here today from this bleacher, especially Mrs. Monica Rosa, who spoke about 300,000. I am aware - yes, I have these social urges - and we are aware of how much more poverty is in Poland. It's true, it's true. Health service underfunded because the cure for 17 zlotys is not for 200 other medicines. As a doctor... [[900.]] I'm gonna say the same thing now. This is all true, but if we in this Seym are proposing, and I have a concrete example - he will come back here, he will come back - we want to make our country fairer, I will say more, like the European example, so that the burdens of individual citizens are appropriate to their material situation - I mean those groups that are happy because their income, their earnings, their property are disproportionate, that is true - who is outraged and defending them with a better cause? Who? [[Platform!]] You. Not everyone can... [[Banker Morawiecki.]] ...but that's the truth, that's the truth. And this charge, out of kindness, honesty of heart, I place it upon you. This is ridiculous. Janosik is offended. What you might call this premiere, which introduces a four percent tax, regardless of the context, with all the criticism, for people who have over a million... Is the spectrum circling the middle class? That's us in this middle class with our earnings-- the hairy, the poor. Low class, that's how it works. This is paranoia. I have nothing against wealthy, wealthy people, but I think about the bill that came here, and I want to say it irreversibly - invariably, because it is the cards that recall from the past, they show the recordings - that our Prime Minister had the courage to introduce a law on full coverage of all earning Poles. [[30 million.]] Larum's up. Journalists say ghosts. The ghost is the ghost of hunger, the ghost of war. What kind of ghost? What kind of ghost? I wish everyone, even the Members, for Christmas, that such a ghost may happen to them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple sign, and I believe that sooner or later - we, you or others - in Poland it will be fairer, it will be more European. [[That's right.]] In European - just what I'm talking about, check it out. Take the computers today, or ask the guys from England, Belgium, France, and you'll find out what the income and property charge system looks like and how they're getting their meds. And you guys here normally, I don't know why you're so passionate about defending. Even Petru said here - today from the party now! or once!, whatever her name is - that we introduced the third tax rate. Yeah, he's pulling a wolf into the woods. I appeal and please, because Poles have a choice and if they want liberals to return to power, it will be their choice. We're not perfect, but the most important question is whether these charges and tax streams... [[Where's the $40 million...]] ...expenditure rates, which are embodied in the state budget, are more fair or not. The Prime Minister rightly said - he rightly said - that this is a combination of tradition and modernity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to touch delicate strings here. I'm looking at those flowers on the bench. Jolanta Szczypińska, our friend, was not an angel, but she had something of an angel, her heart was angelic. And all my colleagues - and, I am very happy, even our president - noticed that in the face of events, I would not want to leave the subject, it is worth recommending her social sensitivity. She wasn't just a nurse. The truth is, every time we discuss it in committee, Iola was always too weak. We can argue, we can argue, we can even share terribly, but I think that caring for the weaker, weaker people is not our choice - and yet many such people are in our homeland - we should be united. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, to confirm what we are saying, that it is not that it is fiction. Short, 4.40. I think we have information, we know facts and numbers. [[Second time?]] My friends served it here. That's not our opinion. International, major agencies, the European Union, the World Bank - these are strong things. If opinions about Poland, indicators, information is positive, it is difficult to discuss it. We can say that happiness is better. I don't know, not to brag, but we're lucky it's good. It's not our fault. But apart from that, and perhaps above all, these are good governments, which at the same time combine great social sensitivity, because I stress that, and more social policy, with all the negatives. As for this income threshold, I agree, I myself am a personal opponent, so that 500 PLN will be taken by people with huge income. I'm saying this in public, and I'm not in any danger. That's the truth. I'm glad that sounds like this. We need insight, but we need honest, honest criticism, not criticism. I think we're gonna go this way, and we're gonna perfect a lot of things. Ladies and gentlemen, these international opinions coincide with the fact that in Poland we have managed to reduce social contrasts over the last few years and that we will go into the future with even better ideas. And I do not think that this political dispute should put an end to our efforts in this direction. As for the 30-time limit law, I would like to say that the Constitutional Tribunal blocked it for 10 months. And if someone - now I'm going to say a curiosity - thinks that this tribunal is PiS-owski or that it's at our hands... [[He's paying ……]] ...let's see: a bill of 6 billion, we've waited 10 months and there's still a negative opinion. [[The president hasn't allowed it yet.]] Three judges, interestingly chosen by the PiS, voted with a separate opinion. [[Taddy, the president hasn't allowed it yet.]] But it's gonna come back, and I'm asking you from this place, because this money is just needed for medicine, it's needed for pensioners, it's needed for health care and for police officers. Yes, because they say, let's not make debts in the future, but so what, folks, that there will be no public debt, that we will have a wonderful budget surplus if the generation is sad, unhappy, without housing and without children. We need to improve our nation's social condition today. We are vowing from this place to the people. You can check it out in the corner. [[The constitution.]] Yeah, in the Constitution. We know who we're vowing to. [[And how many apartments did we build? How many of these apartments are there?]] [[It's worth $4.5,000.]] The biggest marches start with individuals. We must, ladies and gentlemen, argue on the arguments. A lie that has been repeated a hundred times becomes true, but the truth to break through - to break through in the times of this propaganda - must be repeated a thousand times. And we need to be patiently aware and talk about specific facts to people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the public will assess this next year because we're talking about elections here. I hope that this year we will move on to a more substantive discussion and that we will talk about numbers rather than circular statements. We are aware, we are self-critical, because it is always very important, but if we attack epithets and very general statements, I fear that none of this fight will come out victoriously and Poland will be the most injured. I don't know what we're meant to do next year, but I trust that I believe very strongly that even if we can do this, Many good things, this way to the Seym may be harder, but to heaven will be easier, because there is a saying that it's a hundred times easier not to give than to take. And whoever rules, certain achievements in favour of a more just state will be preserved, and no one will take it away from families. We can fix things, modify things. I would very much like to encourage cooperation from this place. Maybe it sounds weird, maybe it sounds naive, but I think the world would shoot without dreamers. I know that there are a lot of good people among the opposition, actually every man has an ingrained good in him. She's the only one who's divided us so much. This may not be a good time for such speeches, but soon we will start a new year, it will be Christmas, it is Advent time, so I think it's worth the effort. Thank you for all the constructive criticism, for the kindness that I declare on my part - I do not know if I can do It's also on behalf of all our colleagues - because it's probably the most valuable thing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That could happen to us. Pretty soon in the ad and in the new year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u245	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by agreeing with Mr Cymanski. [[Applause]] Indeed, the budgetary debate is the most important debate in the Sejm and this is a holiday. I'm looking at this first jury and I'm looking at it, and I don't understand how alive I am. I understand there's no Prime Minister, I know where he is. But the vice prime minister doesn't have one, and I think there's three of them. [[Applause]] So that's how it's treated. [[Where's the government?]] Speaking of vice prime ministers, I will, of course, speak of culture, also speak of the politics of one of them. I think one of the happiest people in this government is Minister Piotr Gliński. And not for this reason, which was mentioned in this calculation, which one of my previous speakers spoke of, because, having told the truth, there was so much truth in this calculation and in these materials, but in the fact that it was able to exceed 1% as regards expenditure on culture, within the state budget. I hereby communicate to the whole club Law and Justice and Minister Gliński, too, because he also does not know that as far as the scale of cultural expenditure in state budget expenditure is concerned, this 1% we crossed in 2014, [[Applause]] then it was consistently maintained in 2015, no terrible thing happened, it was hanging in 2017 because it was only 1,02% already , in 2018 - 1,01% , and for 2019 - 1,03% , so we actually went to some level, and here it falls. That's what it looks like. [[From a great amount of money, pay attention.]] So it is not for this reason that the happiness of Minister Gliński, she has a completely different fundamental basis. First of all, it's the happiness of a three-year-old. Minister Gliński is convinced that the state, Poland and cultural policy began 3 years ago, in 2015, when Law and Justice won the elections. He calmly assigns to himself programmes, actions, multi-annual programmes that have been launched, designed, designed, and introduced into the budgets by the previous team. Sometimes he'll add something, some plus, or some word will change, but the programs are the same. It continues with the investments that the predecessors started. But Deputy Prime Minister Gliński is convinced that he invented all this. Recently he told us that he invented cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When I told him that this cooperation was signed almost 20 years ago by the late ministers Andrzej Zakrzewski and Bronisław Geremek, he was very surprised and said: Ah, it was so long ago. It was a long time ago, but it has been and since then, of course, this cooperation has continued. This minister's happiness stems from this naivety or innocence of a three-year-old who sees the world and is happy that this world exists. In this case, too, because this happiness has a financial dimension, such a very specific dimension - what it will dream of, it has, and it has from the beginning. He's lucky. Maybe he's a good man, I don't know. In 2016, he received PLN 500 million to buy back from the Foundation of Princes of Czartoryski, which, as you know, is owned by the Polish people. But the Minister paid 500 million and we have. [[They've distinguished private property from state property.]] 500 million were immediately in Liechtenstein, but the Minister was less worried about it, because it wasn't his money, it was his taxpayers' money, so it's hard at last, the nation has folded. In 2017, he received PLN 800 million for national television, because it is necessary to help this institution, which is practicing such great propaganda. It really costs, it's not that easy to fool around and lie to people. There's gotta be money for that, so it's $800 million. Now the question is, what is the company mark of the budget for 2019. I think that in 2019 such a model position is 20 million PLN for the father of the director Tadeusz Rydzyk for the construction of the Museum of Memory and Identity in Toruń. Of course, this 20 million is just the beginning, everything will be 70 million. But no, because it's not enough, because it's going to cost at least twice as much to build this museum. So I don't really know how the Minister's gonna handle it. There's just one little thing: show me your friends, and I'll tell you who you are. So we know that the principal's father is a friend of the minister's. At the same time, the Minister was kind to cut the subjective grant to the European Solidarity Centre by PLN 3 million. In June he promised 7146,000, and in October he said, "Sorry, but you'll only have 4 million." And that's how it looks - the friendly and unfriendly Minister of Gliński. But he's not worried about money, because, of course, if they're not enough in the budget, then there's another money. The other money is not just the Minister of Culture, but the whole government, I think. There are State Treasury companies and foundations. Today we even talked about one foundation, and yesterday the combined committees of culture and treasure wondered what the Polish National Foundation was doing, because suddenly it turned out that she was implementing the program - producing films, organizing concerts. When we ask who and how he spent his money on, it's Mr. Chairman who says sorry, trade secret. No wonder Minister Gliński is so pleased: he has money and no one will control him. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u247	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Klaviter, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Right of the Republic, I would like to draw attention to two important areas, which form an important part of the budget, namely the demographic programme and expenditure related to national defence. In the demographic area, of course, there is a theme support for families through the 500+ programme. We have to say that this program has flaws, as we talked about earlier. This flaw is the support of the first child... [[Voice from the room: No backup.]] ...this element that supports the first child and which is an essential part of the expenditure in this programme, a lot, because almost 30%, could be much better consumed by supporting the third and the next child. We've even offered $1,000. zł for third and next child, there was such a proposal, and she would consume much less money than what could be spent on the 500+ program. Nevertheless, there is a theme in the demographic programme, which is very important, that we should keep this in mind and continue to support it. The second leg of the demographic programme should be support or pension subsidies for women who make a great deal of effort and, of course, put time into raising children, so they should be absolutely supported when they retire. This program, as far as I know, is being prepared, but in order to do it responsibly, it should not be done so that from this to this it will be so much, from this to this - so much. You have to introduce some kind of gradation, since the fourth child would be, for example. minimum pension, or 1 000. Evil or 1.1,000. zł now, and from the fifth or sixth there would be some gradation that would show that we care very much about this program, these people are putting much more effort into it and therefore must have gratification. As far as national defense matters are concerned, I wouldn't be here... I know that the PiS is happy that we spend a lot of money on national defense, that we are well perceived by our neighbours and by the United States. You shouldn't be too happy about this. I don't think it's much - 2%. GDP in the geopolitical situation we are in, because that should determine our actions, that is not enough. We need to move more intensively towards increasing our defence forces, and we need to understand that, because it's really only when we're strong that they'll count on us. Action must therefore be stepped up in this direction. This is not enough if we are to lead the PiS, at least as I hear it, to a model of Europe of nations, sovereign nations, then going towards the European army is a misguided direction, we should not go in this direction. For us to have proper sovereignty, it's an army and money that's basic stuff. We are to work together, trade, drive, exchange, work, etc., but we should not lose such fundamental elements of sovereignty, so that, finally, when we deprive ourselves of our own army, the European government, which will eventually in the future, does not mythize us and does not order our country. So the army - yes, even stronger, but we have NATO and let us make the effort to work closely together in this area and move forward, but the European army - no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u250	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of speaking up, representing the Modern Club on the budget bill. To King Sasa, eat and let go of your belt. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget can be partly characterised by this, although we pointed out clearly at first reading the directions to be taken in the course of the work on this budget. Law and Justice have done nothing to rationalise this budget and to add such an element of economy and preparation for difficult times. Ladies and gentlemen! In a period of prosperity, which we have been dealing with over the last few years, we should be a little bit like a hamster, we should collect a little bit like a hamster, save some money, so that later, when difficult times come, we have funds to give impetus to this economic weakness, this release was not so drastic, because we know that when there is economic weakness, these weakest people suffer, and that is why this policy should take these cycles into account, so that the weakest ones can reasonably, I would say, live a reasonable life. There is a ball for money, which every day Law and Justice pulls out of the pockets of Poles in the form of new taxes - these taxes are almost 40 - maintaining VAT rates, although if Poles, entrepreneurial, economy, leave this money in their wallets, they would spend it better. PiS collects these taxes every day, ruins family finances, despite, as I said, signals that show that the economy is slowing down. I don't know if you know that transport companies complain that autumn was weak, but autumn in transport always meant harvest. There is no harvest, there is a weakening of the market. It's gonna be Brexit. You don't take these factors into account at all. Unpredictability of other countries' foreign policies, return to the model of supporting their economies, and all at a time when there are clear signs of economic downturn. You don't anticipate that. You are preparing a budget that will hit the weakest people when difficult times come. And it's gonna be your fault. It's nothing to cry about. It's nothing to do with what you're saying here to the people of the Seym Hall. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this budget cannot be supported because... [[You're the ones crying, we're not.]] ...also irresponsiblely treats infrastructure. You can clearly see that what could be an impulse, the development of infrastructure, in these difficult times, is what you treat as a stepmother. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here's your responsibility, despite all the bullshit and lies you're saying, there isn't. On behalf of the Modern One, I am making amendments to improve this budget. I hope that, at least in this respect, you will follow the footsteps we are setting and support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u251	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u252	Dear Marshal! One of the Members of the Law and Justice said that a lie 100 times repeated becomes true. And I think you believe that. And I think you believe that because people don't believe you. People protest, protest nurses, protest teachers, police officers, court workers. You can only afford promises. This is also the case in this budget. The issue of rising electricity prices has not been resolved until today, there is no compensation, and even the government is not dreaming. VAT is higher by PLN 8 billion in 2019. And what does the Prime Minister promise? Less VAT on mandarins. And Kukiz15 had a chance not to vote on VAT with us. And let them wonder where to find 8 billion for their expenses, either for their unfulfilled promises, or for their luxury in limousines. Disabled people - there is no solution to this problem in the 2019 budget, there are no medicines for seniors, hospitals with debts, expensive electricity, with protests of nurses, no apartments +, there was supposed to be 150,000. Apartments, the fourth year of this term of office and is less than 1 000. Investment - the state boasts of higher indicators. After all, in 2018 we have the lowest level of investment since 1990. What are you bragging about? The fact that you're finally getting to work? Army - I won't talk long, but there are no 21 helicopters promised. It's you people in Mielec who will remember. In agriculture we have 1.5 billion PLN less, late paid money for drought. Are there happy people who are satisfied with this budget? They are, because for many years you've been trying to hire extra people. Compared to 2017 in 2018, you have employed in law firms, i.e. ministries and the President of the Council of Ministers, 800 more employees. I'm sure those people are happy. I'm sure the ministers who have won high prizes are happy. Who else is happy? I'm sure the public television workers and President Kurski are happy because that's what you gave last year. additionally PLN 1 billion and loan. It is a great, huge shame for us Poles that in this debate you talk about this state and reduce the expenditure of the Ombudsman, and the Senate Marshal buys himself a portrait for 7700 PLN. These are your promises to Poles. This lie 100 times repeated will not be a better promise for Poles. States can afford lies 100 times repeated and unfulfilled promises. And now we're talking about emigration. The state of foolishness is talking in this Chamber because the most Poles left during your reign in 2005 and 2007 because 2 million people went abroad. Are they coming back? They're not coming back. They will not return, nor will they return, because they do not believe you. And your lie is repeated 100 times, just as an attempt to disappoint this budget, as an attempt to draw more money out of the pockets of Poles, as a lack of answers to the question about what will be about increases in electricity prices, and the promise of less VAT on mandarins, Poles will not convince that your governments are good. All you can do is give jobs, pay, reward your own people, and you don't think about Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u253	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u254	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to talk about facts. We've had examples of some social speeches that are important, but if we're talking about something that works towards a fundraiser that can then be shared, then we should be serious and run the calculator. We ask ourselves why we have companies. Why does the owner have a company? Isn't it just to make money? Isn't it just to work out a dividend pool so you can live with something and share something? Let me remind you that there was a privatisation process in Parliament when it was necessary to transform state-owned companies into a competitive market. It ended, we gave up the project prepared by the Council of Ministers in 2015, which ends with privatisation and increases dividend revenues, i.e. from the profits of companies that are efficient, well functioning on the market. For 2016, 6 billion PLN were prepared in the Budget Act. What do we got now? We have 2 billion. What does the Minister of Energy say? He says there's no need for a dividend. That's what he said at the committee meeting yesterday. The dividend will be designed for these companies to do what they need. What do they need? Covering costs that grow without control. Why? A simple example: building fuel-carbon, energy-carbon companies. The PGG financed for more than PLN 3 billion had a plan to extract 32 million tons of coal, and it only recovered 30 million tons. How much is it? We were just discussing the price of energy. And it's already exhausting, because it's not even an engineer, but every man, every housewife, can count whether there's a raise or not. Of course it will be. Because it's clever to talk about a narrow group of G tariffs that can be regulated according to the law and not talk about those raises that are already there. Because they are. [[Applause]] 30%, 60% they have small entrepreneurs, big ones, small ones, they have local self-government units. Those raises are here. Because mis-built, mismanaged, high-cost companies always eat their tail and, unfortunately, devour unconscionable ministers. We have witnessed several statements that it is important for us to have the courage to make decisions. Does courage decide how to run a business? Do you happen to know how to run this company? Do I have any knowledge of myself, or am I in the place where I'm supposed to be, and then there's something to share in society? I dare say that you have courage, but knowledge or will not repair. I don't want to judge, but one more point about what's going on in air protection. Auctions of carbon dioxide allowances. Only now do revenue appear in this budget, and so far no one has known about it. It was spent by companies, it was consumed instead of using at least half of the Union's recommendations to increase efficiency, invest in RES and invest in eliminating low emissions. It wasn't there, I hope it starts running. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u255	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Mrozek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Recognizing the need to build an adequate defence capacity in 2001, practically with the full agreement of the political forces in Poland, a fixed national defence effort rate of 1.95% was established. GDP. In 2015, the Civic Platform and PSL raised this indicator to 2%, we met NATO-Wskie's requirements. The PiS declares that these expenses should even increase. We've passed a bill that's going to be 2.5%. In 2030, therefore, I was convinced that you assume that an appropriate indicator resulting from the Act is provided in this 2019 budget. No, it's not. Contrary to the declarations. [[No, no.]] You violated the art. 7 Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces, not providing an appropriate indicator of 2% for the financing of the Armed Forces. Why? This is because of the fact that the national defence expenses charged for the next year will be financed: the modernization of the Police of PLN 500 million, the purchase of aircraft for the transport of the most important persons in the country of PLN 250 million, local roads, local road fund of PLN 500 million and the Air Rescue Emergency Service of almost 50 million. You don't comply with a statutory warrant, [[Applause]] But, more than that, you're cheating people. This budget is all kinds of manipulations. In such an important matter as state defense, national security is simply cheating. [[Does Mr Szymańska hear?]] Despite these manipulations or even frauds, national defence funds are one of the largest items in the state budget. It is enough to say that more than 50% of all the property expenditure of the Polish state included in the budget is the money allocated to national defence. This is a good time when there is money to do just this great task of building the proper defense potential of the state, but the time of the PiS government is a wasted time, a time of great damage in terms of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] Instead of the equipment that would give these capabilities to the Polish Armed Forces, helicopters, of which so much has been said, submarines, unmanned systems, air systems, marines, what did you buy at that time? What can the military be happy about? Five planes to carry power, five planes instead of helicopters? According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, maintenance expenditure has been increasing for recent years and expenditure on the development of the Armed Forces is decreasing. Recently you started signing contracts for the purchase of equipment in which the share of Polish industry will be zero. Your actions will also bring down the defence industry, the effects of your actions are great damage to the Armed Forces and, in fact, the catastrophic situation of the defence industry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly a year ago on the night of December 12 we gave a vote of confidence to the current Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. He then gave his exposé and spoke a lot about smog. He even got us a ready-made bill, which he had over 10 and 15 years of age on a system, with the provision of financing effectively settles This is a civilized issue, what Poles are waiting for. That the fight for clean air is a civilization challenge, also Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke and emphasized that. He just forgot to tell you what civilization he was after because it turned out to be image civilizations. This famous programme of Prime Minister Morawiecki, worth 106 billion pure air, is only displayed in pictures, and it is expensive, on television, because there is no such money in the budget. Nor are they in the financial project of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, where it was supposed to be located. He's nowhere to be found. Poles have been deceived, but don't worry, there's a chance. We've made that bill of ours again, which provides for 0.5%. GDP per year from these emissions trading measures for the fight against smog. Referring to this project, we propose 2 billion PLN already in this budget and conto these fair and decent solutions that Poles are waiting for. You have a chance to support this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u259	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's no minister, but nothing weird. Given the effects of this year's drought and the effects of the African swine fever epidemic, the Civic Platform considers this to be an absolutely unacceptable budget. It shows the real relationship between the governing party and Polish farmers. It is the budget of shame, hypocrisy, falsehood and ordinary bullshit. This is a budget of shame and disregard for millions of Polish citizens working and living in the Polish countryside, because how else do you define a plan to build the headquarters of the National Agricultural Support Centre for PLN 106 million when thousands of farmers are bankrupt due to drought and ASF epidemic? In vain look in the draft budget for 2019 for the implementation of the 2015 PiS electoral promises 3% GDP on agriculture, where is it? Twice the increase in own shares, where is it, ladies and gentlemen? Why is it a project of shame? Firstly, the presented agricultural budget is lower by PLN 1.5 billion compared to 2018 1.5 billion less for Polish farmers. Secondly, contrary to the electoral promises, the PiS did not increase national resources and, interestingly, please, all those PiS Members who are in the Chamber: listen to you - in the budget for the Polish farmer next year the EU's share is PLN 20 257 million, which will constitute 68%, Mr PiS. Do not forget to tell the voters how you will go to the European elections that money for Polish farmers in 68% come from the European Union. I'm asking for honesty. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The agriculture budget planned by the PiS will not save Polish farmers who are bankrupt due to drought, ASF and lack of adequate government support. It is not true that this year's aid is the largest in history, it is definitely inadequate to the size of the disaster, but will show all the research and data next year. A breakdown of agricultural production volumes and values is expected in 2018, which will decrease by almost 1/4, as well as farmers' income from 1 ha will decrease by 1/4. [[Applause]] The 2019 budget will also not help combat ASF. Because of the ASF epidemic in Poland, 100,000 people have already been killed. pigs and 67.5 thousand. The herd has been eliminated. Mr Telus, you are talking about developing agriculture - 67,000. They've been wiped out. [[Applause]] It's a roll-up of agriculture, not a development. The Veterinary Inspection, which should fight ASF, is missing, ladies and gentlemen, everything. There is a lack of hands to work, lack of equipment and lack of money, which is why the Civic Platform Club is proposing an amendment that will stop the collapse of the financial and cadaver in the inspection, which will make it possible, but it is a real fight against the ASF epidemic, which will consequently contribute to the implementation of your slogans, which is to halt the collapse of family farms, because that is what is happening. 67,000. pig flocks have disappeared, Mr Simpson, simply. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister's not here. In the 2019 budget, there is not enough money to fight the ASF epidemic, it is not enough to eliminate the effects of drought, but it is certainly enough, because this is foreseen for PLN 10 million, for thirteenths in the National Agricultural Support Centre, where the average salary is PLN 7600 and the monthly salary of the Director-General of KOWR is 25 thousand. KOWR is just one example of official pathology created by PiS. As in the KOWR, either waste or underfinancing can be seen in any heading concerning agriculture in the 2019 budget. This applies especially to the real needs of farmers. The basic weapon of the PiS at the moment is unrealistic to meet the promises, because there is no implementation in the 2019 budget. No propaganda will cover the false, hypocritical, and crappy agricultural budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Prime Minister's promises, especially those that fell this year during the election campaign, can be said all day, because it was just a show. [[Applause]] It was all intended and prepared for the election campaign. Also, promises have often appeared in the formation of post-election coalitions with different political options. But the budget is a document in which you can very well find out what's going on with these promises. And right now, with very little time, I've been wanting to take a look at a few things. Prime Minister many times, among others. in Lubartów, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Opoczno, Warsaw and many other cities, he said, quote: lower electricity bills. And sometimes he added: and gas. And what, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Czerwiński said what it would mean. It's a lie and a fiction. There won't be any lower energy bills. I'm not going to develop it because I have very little time. Another thing: drought failure. I have to say it. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't just a paycheck. That's the big problem, and the farms are going bankrupt. Besides, this is about preventing drought in the future. However, the budget does not provide any money for deep-sea wells, building water supply networks where they are not, for retention tanks. Drought, if it shows up next year, it's gonna be a complete disaster. I have tabled an amendment on this. So? She was rejected. Nobody even wanted to tell us when we're gonna take care of this. Please help the local authorities. They can't handle it on their own. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u263	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say - and this is from my experience - that the nature of the budget debate has changed considerably in recent years. They used to talk about numbers, directions, omissions, but nobody allowed themselves to lie from this place, and you were the first to carry out the banner password of President Jarosław Kaczyński: No one will tell us that white is white and black is black. Tadek! How can you say from this place that you're after poor people? Behind who? Behind Bierecki? [[No, I said you're all for the rich. That's all.]] Then read the property statement. [[Applause]] Over 7 million annual earnings. Is that what you want to say? You're all for ordinary people? What about counseling the Kowalczyk? He was supposed to make 40 million. They're just people? [[Your people. Corite.]] Who are you sending to the Treasury companies? After all, this is about over PLN 3 million in earnings per year. Are you talking about ordinary people? You're saying that lifting the 30-fold limit is profit? For who? Just for Bierecki, for Kowalczyk, for the presidents of your companies of the State Treasury, for no one else. [[No, it hits them.]] A good host manages and divides fairly, and you neither manage well nor divide well. [[Applause]] [[We're gonna argue.]] It's not a matter of getting excited. You blew up the National Tax Administration. [[We created, we created.]] You've eliminated civilian service. There are people out there who can't do anything. [[We created it.]] My flagship example from your newsletter of information from the Ministry of Finance: 1100 cases of alcohol smuggling have been reported in a total of 5.4 thousand. I. It turns out to be 4.9 l for smuggling. And this woman, did you take those plastic bags and this handkerchief or not? Second example: 1800 cases of fuel smuggling with a total of 140 thousand. I. That's 78 l for smuggling. Someone moved three canisters across the border. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you're bragging about it. The Ministry of Finance is bragging about it, no one else. You're lying about development. The accumulated GDP growth between 2000 and 2015 was 24.4% with a European average of 0.6%. We developed more than 40 times faster than Europe, and you turned on the brake three years ago when Europe hit the gas. You're slowing down. This has to be compared. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you this, because I don't have much time: in the time of the propaganda of Marshal Rydz-Śmigły, to whom recently, on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, so you appealed, there was a slogan: strong, short, ready. And I will answer you like Doląga-Mostowicz: britzes, clichés, parades. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u265	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u266	Mrs. Marshal! It'll be Christmas soon. The Poles and Poles will talk about you, but they will also hear the words of Beata Szydło, who fell from this speaker: The money belonged to them. A second quote is also important: It is really worth working for an idea, not just thinking about money. Moralistically speaking, the Marshal of the Karczewski Senate spoke these words - the same Marshal who replaced the room in the parliamentary house with a government villa which had previously been renovated for PLN 1 million, and now, one year before the end of his term, he ordered himself a portrait for PLN 7,000. zł. [[7700.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every time there's a budget debate, we're testing your intentions. For 3 years I have tabled one amendment, an amendment on the national Alzheimer's programme, 10 million PLN, and I say: I check. You reject this amendment every year. You have about half a million Poles and Poles who have dementia, Alzheimer's disease. You have not implemented this national health policy agenda. This is your great shame. Their money just belonged to them. [[Applause]] These words will be remembered by those who take care of each day, 24 hours a day, their loved ones. It's a shame. Plus the second question: geriatrics. Does the Minister know how much the NFZ spends on geriatrics? One of his budgets. That's another shame. These are the two amendments that we will be submitting and to which you will have to respond in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Gądek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We have just heard from one of the PiS messengers how wonderful this budget looks when it comes to health protection. Just a dream. I am just asking, where are the resources provided for in this budget to compensate for the massive rise in energy prices, which is already, since September this year, and next year it will be even more violent. After all, all medical procedures, all equipment works on energy. So don't cheat, ladies and gentlemen, saying it's wonderful and that you're increasing your workload. The expenditure on health care next year will drop relatively strongly and the amount of medical benefits will decrease. You've talked so beautifully about raises, residents, nurses, and I'm asking you where the money is for groups that didn't have raises and they don't have security features like radiology, medical analysts, medical help, medical assistants. Where's all the money? Who are we gonna take? We will take patients because, as one of the Members of the PiS said, not all will pay for the increase in energy prices, but those who pay the bills. Hospitals, clinics pay bills and therefore simply pay patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u269	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Margaret Chmiel. Twenty-one more seconds. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[How much, how much?]] 21 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Morawiecki drives around Poland, I promise. I promise, but he's not doing it at all. He's doing the best he can to promise before the election. [[One minute twenty-one.]] I ask: What about the construction of the National Institute of Oncology, which he promised in December, where modern methods were called to treat [[♪ The bell ♪]] tumor? What I'm trying to say is that this year, nothing has been done at all. This is also pointed out by the Alivia Foundation, which helps cancer patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u271	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. [[What time?]] Time - 1 minute. Here you go, first question. [[Thirty minutes at least, Marshal.]] One and a half minutes. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Aware of the functioning of the law adopted by the Government of Law and Justice in 2018, with a view to speeding up the growth of financial expenditure on the public health system so that they are not lower than 6% GDP since 2024, I would like to ask what percentage of GDP the government intends to allocate to health care in the 2019 budget. How does that apply to this bill? Will it be more than 20 billion more than in 2015? I would like to ask further if, as a result, the value of the contract point in the NFZ will increase in terms of contracted medical services and what the revenues of county hospitals will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u273	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u274	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In the context of the debate on the country's 2019 budget, a fundamental question should be asked: Can the promised tasks be carried out without budgeting them? I ask this in the context of the "Clean Air' programme, which was announced And so widely used by you during the campaign before the local elections. Within 10 years, 106 billion PLN is to be allocated for its implementation. How much is secured in the budget for next year? Something about zero. You've already reduced well-functioning environmental pollution programmes for many years, moving resources from them to geothermia in a well-known place. Now you've announced a new program. Thousands of Poles have already submitted applications under this programme at the headquarters of voivodship environmental funds, which institutions, on the basis of, I do not know, some friends' arrangements with NFOŚ accept these applications, view them, develop them, but no president of WFOŚ-iu will sign the agreement if he does not have the guaranteed funds for its implementation. There are no measures for next year. Poles have become accustomed to the fact that what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki says is often just a drink. The day before yesterday, Wednesday, we saw it again. But the budget is a serious document, so the question is whether the announced programmes can be implemented if 0 PLN is guaranteed for their implementation next year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's time to go from generals to details. Not further than yesterday, in the Health Committee, we debated the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which assessed the fight against depression and its prevention in Poland. The government representative at the committee meeting yesterday said it would be better. We are opening your draft budget and we have here in point 7, in health policy programmes, the programme for the prevention of depression in Poland for the years 2016-2020. There were 2 million 952 this year, and there will be 2 million 255 in 2019. This is a 23% discount. Yesterday something different was heard in the Health Committee, today is different in the budget. That's the first question, I don't know who, because I don't see the Ministry's representation. Question number two. Please tell me - again I ask the Ministry of Health - do you have an analysis of hospitals in Poland, which through the reform of Mr Radziwiłłła, the reform of the hospital network, have fallen into debt and have to take loans at the moment, and from profitable hospitals have suddenly become inefficient. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u277	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask this question because, frankly, I could not find these funds in the 2019 budget. We have recently adopted the Rural Housewife Wheels Act and I cannot find where the funds are secured for this purpose in the new budget. They're not on the ARiMR side, they're not in the target reserves. Where's the money and how much? Even if there's no answer right now, I'll have it in writing. And the second thing, very difficult, I gave her a lot of space in my basic speech - a very difficult situation in Polish agriculture. Minister Ardanowski announced that there would be a National Food Holding. I wanted to ask if he had already functioned, only that he would not be called: Polish, rather: Chinese. We know that some processing plants have been taken over by the Chinese, that they also run so-called. fattening in our Polish farms, Polish farmers' holdings, except that our farmers are only products or mercenaries there. Is that what this food holding company is supposed to be all about? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u280	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to raise a question about economic education. Well, I can't find funds in the budget for this form and this kind of education. The fact that such economic education of children and young people is extremely necessary, we know, watching the discussions even here in the High House, where there are Members who claim that they give, in the sense that they give money to the budget, completely disregarding the fact, hence the money is drawn - they are drawn from the pockets of Poles. So such economic education, concerning the basic economic categories, for children and young people is We need it as much as we can. And the second thing I want to ask you. Minister Adamczyk claimed that the construction of the Beskidzki Integration Road, which is an extremely important road for the region, requires only the consent of local authorities. Today we know that the last local government that blocked the construction of this road, i.e. the local government of Wadowice, changed its mind, is the green light, and therefore there is no obstacle to building this road. I ask: Did Minister Adamczyk budget the construction of this road as announced? I would also like to say that if not, I have tabled an amendment, it is about PLN 200 million, which will certainly allow the start of at least the first stage of the purchase of land, and please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! I have three very specific questions. First question to the Ministry of Finance: What is the system of separating criminals from honest entrepreneurs when it comes to VAT return? In other words, what's it like with this budget next year? Are the companies whose budget should pay back more VAT and which are waiting not for a month, not for two but for more than one year, included in this part of the budget for today and what are the amounts? And what happens when you have to return this VAT and go to court, and you can pay interest? That's one thing. Second thing. Yesterday we learned from the Prime Minister that there would be no increase in energy prices. I understand that today's budget discussion makes no sense... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...because we have a completely different amount of VAT, excise duty. It was all the country that you had to include in the current budget. Because of yesterday's decision or yesterday's information, this entire budget has really collapsed because there will be other receipts from VAT, excise duties, indirect taxes. And here's the question: how do you want to solve this and calculate it, balance the right and left sides? 'Cause for now, it's gone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It used to be said that winter surprised the roadmen. Energy prices surprised the government. Today, this is not subject to any discussion. That's not what everyone says. Prime Minister: there will be no raises. The Minister doesn't know what the raises will be yet. Mr. Marshal, the second person in the country today, says: there will be reductions. That's what he said. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it?]] So it's a total detour. But it's not a joke, it's a drama for our economy, because this growth, which is announced, will affect the local governments incredibly. However, the minister says: local governments are in a very good financial position and they will not feel it. Households will also manage because the material situation of households has improved because we have provided support in the form of 500+. That's what the minister said yesterday. Companies? We found some free allowances, we'll help. It's just that it's all building up. It's not like it's for today. And what happens next? By the six-month election, you can hold on, somehow force these companies not to raise the price of this energy enough to make it felt. What's next? It's a drama for the economy, in agriculture too. You don't talk about agriculture at all, and this is the place where this energy goes most, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because all the conversion, all the mechanization in agriculture is based on electricity. What's the cost? Nobody's talking about that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u285	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Could this budget be supported? Answer: yes, on one condition - that expenditure would be less than revenue. 14 countries of the European Union have a budget surplus, many of them have a balanced budget, and what are you doing? You owe the next generation billions - 30 billion PLN of the next debt. Who's gonna pay it off? Not you, our children will pay for it. This is simply an irresponsible financial policy of the state. Second thing. You said, "We're doing judicial reform, we're gonna make the courts work better." You turned the entire justice system upside down, and what? And you have court officials on the streets because you've aroused expectations -- we have so much VAT money, we have a sealed system, we have billions that we've saved, no one's ever won that kind of money. So? Why don't you share the money? There's money for Misiewicz, but there's money for people. [[Applause]] You want to improve the functioning of the justice system, lay out the money. We have now tabled an amendment - I wonder if you will support it - so that those people who are currently on strike, who have really hungry salaries, help so that they get back to work and that the Polish justice system normal functioning. You're all for it, I won't say ugly... mess fully responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u287	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! It is well known that the discussion of the most important draft law, on the budget law, raises certain emotions. It is understandable, but it is not understandable to use such things. the finding that there have been no changes in taxation within three years of the rule of law and justice. [[You're up all the time.]] [[They were, they were, they were unfavorable.]] Minister! Is it true that, as regards corporate tax, CIT, tax scales have been changed for a specific category of taxpayers? Is it true that the tax-free amount, which was not noticed by the Kukiz club representative15, was... [[It's not in line with promises.]] ...enhanced to 6600 PLN for people who have this level of income? It is then tax-free. So this is an increase in the amount of free to 6600 PLN. Did... [[But...]] Don't disturb me. Your emotions will cool off a little bit. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member will calm down.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, is it true that, also in terms of parameters, macroeconomic indicators, this budget is a really good budget? We can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] curse reality and claim that GDP growth by 5% It's a low growth. I also wanted to make amendments to this budget on behalf of the Law and Justice Club using this speech. [[Applause]] [[There's nothing to use. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u289	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Please, Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u290	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government's forecasts will make 1.5 million entrepreneurs pay higher contributions in 2019 than they should. So there's gonna be a ZUS raise for business. Those who are self-employed will have to pay over PLN 1300. What relief does the government offer for GDP producers, budget producers? I also wanted to ask you about the chopper. The tender for 50 helicopters and associated offset benefits has been cancelled. You promised new helicopters for the army, you promised a new procedure and that the production entities in Poland would benefit from it. Due to the fact that three years have passed and the procedure is under way for the acquisition of four helicopters, and we know that there is still one supplier who offers helicopters produced in Italy, I wanted to ask whether the army after 3 years of your government has a chance to receive helicopters and whether they will be produced in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: During questions?]] [[Until the end of the debate can be done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u291	Thank you very much. I wanted to reassure you. Amendments may be submitted to complete the procedure over the point. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a specific question. Is there any chance that this budget will include a provision on the introduction of targeted grants for NGOs that have received money to implement investment projects in the field of support for children with disabilities and their families under regional operational programmes? This problem appeared in Małopolska, but not only there, also in other places. For 2 years, NGOs have sought EU projects and have been given the opportunity to implement them under operational programmes, but 2 years of ongoing evaluation, 2 years of ongoing procedure. This made the money they wrote about at the beginning, which they were trying for, unfortunately, not enough for them anymore, because construction services were expensive. The example from Małopolska is such, it is an association for supporting people with intellectual disabilities in the Keys and in the Guard. The association in Strzeżów gained 4.5 million, in Klucze also 4.5 million. Buildings were obtained with their own sumpt, with an average of one million to complete these investments. This is support for 240 families. There are many such places in Poland. Is there any chance that this money will come out so as not to lose the few million that these organisations from the European Union have received for these purposes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u293	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u294	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! Mr Tadeusz Cymanski would like the Law and Justice budget to be solidarity, social. In the meantime, he is a political person, and I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there is something alarming about the fact that Law and Justice - and I am thinking here above all about the Prime Minister - is using the budget to break human rights, namely using economic censorship. We have an incredible case: that's when the Malta Festival started organizing its event, 300,000 were taken away from it. On 23 March, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will be sued. This trial will take place in Poznań. Go there and see how Law and Justice violate human rights. Economic evaluation is a terrible form of censorship that really eliminates the right to freedom of expression, first of all. [[Applause]] Secondly, there are high thoughts about the military, the military funding, the military budget. Well, I would like to tell you that the budget of the Polish Theatre in Wrocław is about 13 million. This is the equivalent of two Leopard 2A4 tanks. These are the standards we use today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you think that today we have a chance to defend our country by investing in the military budget in such a gigantic way, then you are simply very naive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u295	Thank you, sir. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not a financier or an economist. I'm an engineer, but a well-educated engineer, a graduate of the Mining and Steel Academy, 45 years ago. I'm talking about this not to brag, but to emphasize that logical and mathematical reasoning is no stranger to me. And math and logic tell me something very different than those of the opposition. I understand that your biggest problem is the development of Poland under the rule of the United Right. After all, your distinguished financier announced that there is no money and there will be no money. In your speeches, you mourn our fate and talk about the disaster that awaits us. Armageddon. Meanwhile, the budget is growing, Poles' wages are growing, employment is growing. [[Counselor Kowalczyk's the most.]] State budget deficit for 2016, i.e. the budget inherited by the Government of the United Right after the previous coalition of PO-PSL, is about PLN 59.5 billion and Poland was a green island. [[It hurts, doesn't it? Does it hurt?]] A deficit of 28.5 billion is planned for 2019. In 2018, it was planned at a level of up to 41.5 billion and will be implemented - all this is indicated - at a level of less than 20 billion, with incomparable social expenditure. So what's it like? Is it better or worse to reduce the budget deficit almost three times with increased expenditure? I understand the right of opposition to the criticism of the government, including the planned budget, but I ask you to answer this question personally and to yourself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because I understand that it would be foolish for you to admit yourself publicly. But I don't think you can avoid it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: But that was the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no Prime Minister, but I hope he hears me say it. Prime Minister! Over 40,000. The court and prosecutor's office are waiting for the answer to the question I asked the Prime Minister two days ago. What is the Prime Minister going to do to bring an end to the protest of the judicial staff and the prosecution? How loud do workers have to shout so that their voice can be heard? Is the Prime Minister aware that many court workers and prosecutors receive a salary of PLN 1900 per month? Tell these workers how to survive from the first to the first. Are you aware, Prime Minister, that these employees can't get a loan to buy an apartment because they don't have the credit? The Kukiz Club15 has submitted amendments to the budget for raising the remuneration of this group, the judicial staff and the prosecution, and we hope that these amendments will be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u299	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that the budget law places room for a special reserve to raise salaries for higher education. These salaries have been frozen for years. Now the amount included in the budget guarantees a 9% increase. I know that many universities have already started negotiations on how to carry out this increase. I would also like to point out that, according to Law 2.0, the taxation of salaries of academic teachers returns to a reduced rate of 50%. Previously, the PO-PSL government eliminated this reduction in the taxation of fees. However, I would like to ask whether the government is considering the possibility of regulating wages in Institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences, where often the professor's salary is slightly above 3,000. zł. I'm talking about professors who matter in world science. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u301	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Is health in the 2019 budget a priority? Is it even a priority in Poland at the moment? Cancer patients are waiting for innovative therapies. In most cases, they don't get them. The death rate for cancer in Poland outside childhood diseases is much higher than in countries that are neighbouring us. This is due to the fact that it takes a very long time for all innovative therapies to proceed, and money for them is constantly lacking. The main problem at the moment in health care is the lack of staff, both doctors and nurses. The increases received by doctors and nurses are absolutely insufficient to keep this staff in Poland. Doctors leave Poland massly, and they certainly do not return to Poland. With a generation hole - it's about a generation of perfectly educated doctors doing fantastic procedures that retire, will soon disappear from the labour market and there will be no one to replace it - at the moment big resources are needed, so that students with whom I practice don't tell me: ha, ha, ha, you can make a gift for college, because we'll do it in 2 months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. Germany or England. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u303	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wish we didn't promise, we didn't say, but we leaned over the fate of the retirees. I would like to ask the government: Do pensioners who have starvation pensions still have to pay taxes? A few days ago, we were debating here not to charge taxes twice, because retired people, working professionally, have paid tax throughout their lives in their professional work. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What reasons do you have, with such a good budget, that you still want to take pensions from these little, hungry pensions? Or maybe it's time to let them off the hook. High Izbo! You keep talking about good change, good social programs. I think it's for the government. I'd like us to remember that these are our parents, our grandparents. They have worked their entire lives professionally and now we must remember them, nurture them. We should take great care of them and love them, cherish them, so that they can live as long as possible. We are forced to do this, which is - maybe I said wrong - we should remember this. These are our parents, our grandparents, who live for starving pensions. 800 PLN per hand. God, I'm thinking about how you can live with that kind of money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Someone was talking about $6,000, and here's for a couple hundred zlotys. It's just a struggle for survival. Let's not talk, let's take care of the retirees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me repeat my question again: How can you say that you are giving more money to farmers if the agricultural budget is less than 1.5 billion? And I have a question: What is the above standard aid to those affected by drought, if it is a superstandard drought lie? The preliminary calculations showed that almost PLN 5 billion would be needed to pay the victims, and the drought covered almost 6 million hectares. I would like to remind you that in 2015 only 1800 000 were covered by drought. ha, while this year, ladies and gentlemen, we had almost 6 million ha, so the sum needed to pay to farmers is almost or more than 5 billion PLN. You offer only PLN 2.2 billion. What kind of extra-standard help is that? Are you making provision for an amendment that will allow farmers to pay the money that you do not have in the budget? Let me remind you again: a minimum of 5 billion is needed to help farmers, let alone talk about above-standard aid. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! In relation to the ongoing climate summit in Katowice, I wanted to ask about the government's clean air programme. Within 10 years, this programme will cost over PLN 103 billion, of which over 63 billion will be grants and the remaining amount will be loans. Today we already know what is the interest in this program of owners and co-owners of single-family homes. I've been to some informational meetings that have been discussed on this subject. So my question concerns 2019: What amount is planned for this purpose just for 2019? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u309	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions that I address to the Ministry of Finance: How does the Ministry of Finance assess the quality of tax law standards, including language law, and how does the Ministry of Finance assess the legislative processes that we are dealing with in the Sejm? I was inspired to ask these questions a few events. Namely, as you know, they spoke about tax law - specifically one of the projects - linguists. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, I heard that according to the Legislative Office, the project was missing - it was about income taxes and ordination, about the change of these acts - attention: several hundred commas. So I have a question about whether it wouldn't be a good investment to buy a book, [[♪ The bell ♪]] She costs thirty pair of zlotys, where do I put the comma? You can also use a computer because there are mechanisms. As for the second issue, which is the issue of the legislative process, I wanted to ask whether the Ministry is positively assessing the situation when three income tax projects are being examined at the same time in the Sejm, and during the committee meeting we found contradictions between these projects? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u311	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u312	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 December 2017, prime ministers and ministers presented the programme for Silesia beautifully in Katowice. They said: important, perhaps the most important strategic project for responsible development. They even wrote on their websites that this is the first programme in the regional policy of the government, which at the same time is a coordinating tool for national and European funding, coming from among others. from national operational programmes and resources of the State budget. The entire programme is valued, as Minister Kwieciński said, at PLN 55 billion. I wanted to ask how many of these 55 billion PLN were included in the 2019 project. The European ranking of the 50 most polluted cities in the European Union shows that 36 are in Poland, of these 36 cities almost half are in the Silesian Voivodeship. The top cities are such as Żywiec, Rybnik, Pszczyna and Wodzisław Śląski. It is an agglomeration of over 4.5 million Poles. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister: [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much money from the state budget in 2019 is saved for the fight against smog? It was supposed to be a flagship program for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u314	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This budget for agriculture is a weak budget. 1.5 billion missing, the money is less than the previous year. You say you give so much money, with such care. Never did agriculture get that much money in connection with drought, because it's never been so droughty, so pregnant and so harsh. [[Applause]] There was never such a drought, therefore there was no need. You say excise duty. From December 2015 to today fuel has been used up by 1.05 zł, times 150 l is 150 zł per 1 ha. [[How?]] And you give 14 zlotys in excise. What's this farmer got per hectare? So, ladies and gentlemen, you don't care about the budget, you don't care about the farmer the way you say the river of money flows to the country. If you were good hosts, you'd serve the drought directly from the budget, 100%. Yeah, you would. You don't have more than a billion zlotys to pay for drought, human tragedy. [[Are we paying this or not?]] On the other hand, it would have to go further in economy and make amends to these farmers in the form of... By January, the government should pay all direct payments to these poor farmers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because they don't have the money to renew their production. How are they supposed to compete with their neighbours, farmers from 28 countries? They don't have any money. Who can help them who they can count on? To the Polish government. The Polish government says there's a lot of money, and unfortunately it looks thin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u315	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the people of Lower Silesia, I wanted to ask you about the fossil tax. In the coalition agreement of the PiS - non-party self-governments in the Lower Silesian Seym, an important position is taken by the tax on fossils, and in particular the government's promised to leave part of this tax in the region. However, so far there is no project on this subject, no announcements. Few of this, in the 2019 budget, the amount of the fossil tax, the planned amount of revenue has not changed, was 1400 million, is 1400 million. Let me add that the Civic Platform project suspending this tax has been lying in your marshal's freezer for over a year now. When the government will comply with the agreement signed in Lower Silesia, which it decided, I stress, it decided about the coalition with the PiS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u317	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How many more people have to die for the Ministry of Health to understand that human life is priceless? Patients with spinal muscle atrophy, as they are referred to, urgently need care, urgently need refunds and effective therapy that inhibits the management of the disease. About 700 people in the hope of fear are waiting for the decision of Minister Szumowski to approve the refund of a drug that not only stops the disease, but also withdraws it. Unfortunately, there is no decision because the Ministry argues that the cost of one dose is 90,000. Euros. The annual cost of treatment for all patients is PLN 850 million. Someone will say: yes, ultra rare diseases - a difficult subject. Okay. But isn't it a hard topic for the government to allocate PLN 980 million to a propaganda tube? I mean, of course, TVP grants. That's a tough one. Ladies and gentlemen! We're in a disgusting neighborhood. [[♪ The bell ♪]] countries which have not yet acceded to this refund. It's Belarus and Ukraine. Countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia have dealt with this a long time ago. I wanted to ask: Have the budget bill entered funds for the refund of this medicine? And if not, will there be an amendment that will regulate it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u319	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. There is no Member. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the announcement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on 8 July this year. Well, the Prime Minister in Katowice promised the biggest railway investment in Silesia in history during a meeting with voters as part of the electoral campaign. I would like to ask what is the state of implementation of these railway investments in the Śląskie voivodship today and what funds from the state budget will be spent on the implementation of railway investments in the Śląskie voivodship in 2019. Please answer my question in writing. The stairs at the Katowice station are a symbol of the rift between the Prime Minister's announcements and the gray reality. The stairs leading to the underground part of the bus station broke down in spring 2017 and since spring 2017 the PKP has been unable to repair these stairs. It might be funny and trivial if it wasn't a daily handicap for many thousands of people who use this really big station downtown, in the capital city of voivodship, in a city that has been hosting the United Nations climate summit for the last two weeks. Even the city of Katowice offered PKP to add 500,000. zł to repair these stairs. Unfortunately, the PKP has not been able to deal with this problem organizationally for 2 years. I also ask you very much to answer in writing: What kind of action are you going to take to solve this trivial problem, as it may seem? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u321	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u322	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember the recent protest of the disabled in the Seym. Prime Minister Morawiecki had disabled people, promising, I quote: We are redesigning the system of case law on disability in Poland in order to better help respond to the needs of people with disabilities. The bill was designed only that the new rules do not enter into force because there is no decision. I ask the Prime Minister: Shouldn't money be used primarily for this purpose in connection with the adoption of the budget? And do you need another protest of people with disabilities to keep your promise to the Prime Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u323	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Here I address, above all, all those who will be watching this debate. It's Christmas, and I don't know if you know it, but all of you of your own taxes have fallen into a beautiful gift for Mr. Marshal Karczewski. His portrait. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Nice.]] [[Wonderful.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't a joke. From your taxes, $8,000. The zloty will be dedicated to this portrait of Mr. Marshal Karczewski. [[The voice from the room: But it came out nicely.]] [[Where do you think you're going?]] Question to the government: Is this money well spent, ladies and gentlemen? 'Cause you're probably not gonna get a portrait like this for Christmas, just an increase in energy prices. That's the truth about the PiS. And now for the second picture, ladies and gentlemen. This is a picture of practically falling windows in the dermatology clinic of the Children's Hospital on the street. Basketball in Warsaw. I think that such a destroyed clinical hospital, especially as regards the dermatology clinic, is not in Poland. My question: Does the Ministry of Health expect any money next year to make such a necessary investment? Because really, ladies and gentlemen, next year this clinic will be celebrating the 100th anniversary of the uprising, and so the catastrophic state of this building requires immediate action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u325	Thank you, sir. Mrs Lidia Gądek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, we adopted here, in this House, with the support of the opposition at that time, the Law on Public Health, including a plan on the resources allocated to its implementation over the years. Three years have passed, the bill is lying quietly somewhere in the drawers of the Ministry and for the health of Poles nothing results from it. There is no money for air protection in Poland. There's no money to protect the waters and clean the environment. The mortality of Poles in recent years, which is reported by government sources, and not by any imaginary structures, is growing. The 500+ programme unfortunately has no demographic impact, it may have little social impact, and praise for it. On the other hand, our society is simply dying, and the morbidity among our small citizens is increasing. There's no money to be rehabilitated. Why do you not make a clear stand for the health of Poles? Where's the money that was supposed to be for the public health bill? You're doing this tonight... Garbage somewhere from Thailand, coal from Russia, our mines are actually being wiped out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We do not offer Poles any systematic protection of their health. How much money is strictly entered in the budget for next year for the implementation of the Public Health Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u327	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Mrozek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The potential of the State, in particular the State budget, was used by the PiS to achieve the party objectives rather than the national and social objectives. This is very well seen in the example of national defense. In recent months, Minister Błaszczak has decided - in recent months: in October, before the local elections - to create a new division of land troops based in Siedlce, although Poland absolutely does not need further command bodies. We need combat modules to achieve the State's defence objectives. At the cost of many billion PLN we will build things completely unnecessary from the point of view of the potential of the Polish state. You can see that very well on the example of the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial defence forces with little military potential will absorb PLN 500 million from the 2019 budget, without expenditure on equipment for this formation. In comparison, for Special Forces in the same budget is only PLN 350 million and for Navy - PLN 600 million. The time in which we should build the defensive capacity of the state is wasted by you, but there is an even worse thing: [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're wasting resources of the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no treatment for Alzheimer's patients, no caretakers for people with disabilities, no geriatrics, but there is for a portrait of Marshal Karczewski and a saber for the Marshal loved. [[Member Jakub Rutnicki shows a photograph of Stanisław Karczewski: Here he is.]] I have information for you, Marshal Kuchciński: if you think of following the example of Marshal Karczewski - we cordially promise you here - these swords and this portrait of you will be sent to Przemyśl. There won't be room for these kind of programs. There is no room for a programme of vanity+ when there are significant social problems, when the raging cost kills pensioners and pensioners in our country. This year you have rejected several laws and it is worth recalling: a pension without tax, an act on help for independent individuals. Lack of resources to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice on the compensation of benefits for caretakers of adults with disabilities. This is your disgrace. Forty days there was a protest in the Seym. We remember your marshal who was worried about what we'd finance dinners for the protesters. Those were the disgraceful words of this vanity, which was the purchase of the 57,000 swords, the vanity which was the execution of your own portrait for the amount of... [[♪ The bell ♪]] 7700. Not vanity+, but support for people, for seniors, for people with disabilities, for people excluded - for those you don't care about at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u331	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll go back to the tax administration, because in 2016, this administration passed through a tsunami. As I said before, there are geniuses who boast of catching 1,100 cases of alcohol smuggling in a total of 5,4,000. I, which is 4.9 l for one smuggling. That's brilliant. Or the fuel case. 78 l on one busted case of smuggling across the Polish border. And these professionals who are fired by you have gone to court and we already know that in these courts, just as avalanchely as you kicked them out of work, now they win trials. I wanted to ask you if you have an estimated amount, how much it will cost you extra in 2019 and where this amount can be found in the budget because I didn't find it. And the most important thing politically, namely: When will we see the resignation of Minister Banasi responsible for these irregularities? It's about time. Now another fresh one from two days ago. Homepage of the Prime Minister's firm. Success is on a daily basis, and we found... [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2 days ago on the Prime Minister's website, this is a success: in 2015 the lowest pension was PLN 880.45 and in 2019 it will be PLN 1100. I ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance, because the state here is the most: Is there a difference between a net benefit and a gross benefit in this government? Is that just a lie and a manipulation? [[Applause]] [[It's a lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u333	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nearly PLN 416 billion is the expenditure page of the state budget, our country, for 2019. The defence budget is growing from year to year and in 2018 it amounted to more than PLN 40 billion, for 2019 almost PLN 45 billion is planned. I ask the question: Minister, why have you been missing uniforms in uniform magazines for 3 years, as the officers of the army have alerted? As they often emphasize, they must even wear holes in their shoes because they cannot buy them. The money's getting bigger, only it's missing for normal soldiers. But it's not missing, Minister, the money to buy 30 limos and five VIP planes. Will the 2019 budget change the proportion of current expenditure - for that year these expenditures were twice as much as property - and now they will be twice as much expenditure on investments and technical modernisation of the Armed Forces and for the purchase of uniforms for soldiers who simply deserve it? Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u335	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u336	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask if there was money in this budget to solve the problem of disabled people who protested in the Sejm for 40 days. It's 40 days of shame plus the rest of the time in which the state hasn't solved their problems - such a long period of shame. Next thing you know, it's a power price increase. You don't know anything until today. I'm asking the Minister if President Rzeszow has responded to the letter on the increase in electricity prices. When there are increases for diagnostics - you boast, how much money is there for different important purposes - for this professional group? I wanted to ask you if you're finishing up the territorial defense program. It's supposed to be 50,000, it's 17,000. So? The highest expenses. And one more small thing, extremely important. For many years, the Civic Platform has been talking, as well as women's environments, about blood testing to detect mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. There's a guarantee that it will be. Please indicate to us what amount will be in the budget for this and when finally this promise for women will be fulfilled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are my important questions, though. All others were asked during the debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u337	Thank you very much, Member. We approach the questions. Mr Sławomir Gadomski will be the first to speak with the representative of the Ministry of Health, the Undersecretary of State. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! [[I was asking about BRCA.]] Yeah, I got that. Maybe I'll start with the most important thing. I think the most important and, in total, the final question was the question that Mrs Chybick asked, whether health is a priority for the government. As a financier, I'm going to try to show it by giving two simple numbers. One: the total budget of the State, the target funds and the National Health Fund are planned to amount to 97.6 billion for 2019. This is an increase of 7.6 billion. Never before has there been such an increase year to year of the health budget. Moreover, this budget is in line with the Health Services Act, and in fact with the so-called. Act 6% , should be at 4.86% GDP and the measures planned in the budgets just mentioned are at 4.92% GDP, i.e. exceeds the reference value by more than PLN 1200 million. This, I think, speaks for itself in response to the question of whether health is a priority for the government. Mrs Chybicka also asked about innovative cancer therapies and generally about oncology treatment. I would like to say that such a package of changes, which is already planned and implemented in oncology, has never happened before. Yesterday we discussed in the Health Committee the pilotage of the National Oncology Network, which is about to enter into force. We're starting work on the National Oncology Network Act. I hope that next week the Sejm will receive a bill, on the initiative of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, concerning a strategy against cancer, which was never at the government level in Poland. The funding of benefits by the National Health Fund for complex and complex surgical procedures is increased and, for example, the financing of genetic research has emerged. The Member asked for a refund. It is worth noting that seven active substances have been addressed to the refund this year. A new drug program has been launched in oncology associated with the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma. These are really actions that also show a great deal of financial commitments, because each molecule is extremely expensive, and we are talking about increasing the catalogue of active substances in the field of oncology treatment by several percent compared to the previous state. It is worth pointing out the work related to tariffing oncology benefits - on such a scale the tarification has never been carried out before - but also for some soft action. More than 20 million PLN in 2018 was spent on social campaigns related to the broad understanding of cancer prevention, next year we plan to maintain the same level. What is worth pointing out is that she also asked about the need for a large amount of funding for education. Here, too, it is worth noting that, in fact, the limits in higher education in medical sciences are growing intensively, we are spending additional resources on increasing the limits in nursing courses. Of course, those who perform these medical professions will not arrive within one year, this process must continue, while these actions initiated today will result in an increase in the number and doctors of specialists and nurses in a few years. On further, more detailed issues, there was a question about patients with spinal muscle atrophy. In fact, it is a small group of patients, there was talk of 700 people, estimates are slightly different, we estimate that these people are about 300, which does not change the fact that treatment is very, very expensive. Negotiations on this treatment are ongoing, you can say, very advanced. This week there were two rounds of negotiations with the company. But it must also be said that we are talking about one rare disease, and in fact in the previous month the Minister of Health appointed a team to deal with rare diseases on a systematic basis. The first meeting of this team is scheduled for next Monday. This is the result, or rather the implementation of the country's drug policy adopted this year, under which a systemic or systematic approach to rare diseases has been addressed. There was a specific question about the funds allocated for investment in the hospital. Baby Jesus. I have already answered this question several times, also from this speaker. This investment cannot be seen in separation from the activities that are being carried out today by the Warsaw Medical University, and from the extensive consolidation of three hospitals, the establishment of a central clinical hospital. To date, no definitive restructuring programme has been established for these hospitals and the decision of the Ministry of Health in this regard is suspended until there is a clear and definitive consolidation and restructuring programme for clinical hospitals under the Warsaw Medical University. Back and closing financial issues - Mr Kozłowski asked about the debts of hospitals caused by the network of hospitals and the associated increasing debt of these hospitals. We published the results of the hospital debt last week, and we publish them quarterly. In fact, in the third quarter there is a certain increase in debt due in relation to previous periods, but I would like to point out that we are talking together about commitments at the end of the third quarter at the level of about PLN 1900 million, while in the third quarter of the previous year it was over 2 billion. So, in fact, we see a trend growing over the first, second and third quarters of this year. He's probably coming up with a few things. One or two points need to be raised. This concerns the financing of benefits by the National Health Fund and the inclusion of these revenues in hospital accounts. Hospitals are this specific group of entities that use spot reporting, and de facto revenues are recorded only when the invoice is issued or the National Health Fund allows the invoice to be issued, and this is often far from fulfilling the provision for reasons and validation, and a certain verification and settlement of these benefits. This debt trend is being observed, as I said, we are waiting for annual results. The annual results are much more precise and can be said to be clear than quarterly. At this point, after these results, we will take possible action in this area. Thank you very much. [[Alzheimer's?]] Alzheimer's - I didn't hear a question about Alzheimer's. There was a pretty long case of Alzheimer's, and I didn't hear the question. However, referring to this, because once again I refer to Alzheimer's and to the launch of the programme in this area - Alzheimer's patients are being treated, while as far as the national Alzheimer's programme is concerned, first of all, such a conclusion, I repeat, never went to the Ministry of Health, so de facto according to the Act on Health Policy Programmes cannot be proceded. But what's more, it's important to consider the substantive aspects of Alzheimer's treatment... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...and today's lack of really recognized methods or prevention or treatment, which, according to the law, prevents the creation of a health policy programme in this area. There was also a question about BRCA1, BRCA2, which was asked when it would be financed. I would like to point out that this is already funded, already in 2018 there were funded care programmes for patients who have genetic conditions in this area, as part of the action of the National Programme for the Control of Cancer, and these actions will be intensified in 2019, including under this programme. [[Public health?]] Public health - I think I have to answer in writing, because unfortunately it's gone somewhere. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u339	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Minister Andrzej Bittel, the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to answer the question about the Beskidway of Integration and information that Wadowice withdrew its appeal from the environmental decision. As far as I am concerned, there are still two entities who are suing this decision, so it is not final and therefore cannot open a tender for the programming concept, decide it and develop such a programming concept. This makes it impossible to publish a tender by designing and building this investment, which means that it is impossible to obtain a decision, authorisation to carry out a road investment, which - this final decision - is the basis for expropriating the necessary land to the road and, consequently, payment of compensation. This means that the proposed amendment concerning the purchase of land next year in my opinion is pointless. I will answer two specific questions on the railways, as requested, in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u341	Thank you very much. I now ask the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In answer to Mrs Genowefa Tokarska's question about the food holding company, whether or not there is a job for employed farmers within the framework of this concept, I wanted to make maybe not a comprehensive but a concrete explanation. In relation to what was said about the holding company: at the moment we are using a different name, the holding company may associate public opinion with some power position on the market, with some monopoly - none of this. In the intention of the government regarding the idea of a Polish food group or a Polish food group, because that is how we define it, probably more appropriately at the moment, and under such a name - I hope - it will go to use, to history in this positive sense, we mean completely different actions, which is precisely not market dominance. Because she is currently performing, and it is to a great disadvantage to Polish farmers. This year's experience of overfertility of soft fruit, their very low price, has shown a huge imbalance in terms of strength, capital, market position, trade position of processors - an area dominated mainly by foreign German capital - in relation to producers, to farmers producing soft fruit. So we have to hurry with double help. First of all, it's about legal solutions that have to ensure some kind of contractual balance, and that's what's happening right now. There are difficult negotiations, but they must be successful, some compromise, and we must, of course, also take advantage of those opportunities which transform part of KOWR's potential, use this investment potential in the market supporting processors, Polish farmers. Because when cold stores are created in the area of ownership of KOWR - although it may also be coordinated, cooperative, such a wide range of this offer, also owned within the Polish food group, the Polish food group - then it will turn out that several high-caliber cold stores or several processing plants on this market will allow to master the situations of blame, great advantage and harm that happens to Polish producers, Polish farmers. Such market interference will, in our opinion, be sufficient to help the weakest, which is simply to restore proper, meaningful market relationships. We noticed the same thing about ASF. We have resolved this at the statutory level, in the risk zones the market amount of pigmeat is already gradually restored, not one which was very distant from the market - between PLN 1.60 and PLN 5. Now pork is removed from the market by means of a law adopted a few months ago, at prices close to the market, without this pressure of price dictation. It will also be so that emerging processing plants in the circle of the Polish food group or that converted into capital goods of KOWR's assets and other forms of allied property with it will result in that advantage over the Polish farmer, the Polish agricultural producer no longer. There will be no price dictation, and that's the point. The whole concept will, of course, develop and grow on all fields where Polish agriculture, Polish farmer, in all crop segments, sectors will need it. Since Mrs Genowefa Tokarska's question raised the question of the name related to, for example, with a cover-up, at least there was such a suggestion, it could be guessed, I answer, because there are probably no simple, market mechanisms to eliminate it: this is a very unfavourable phenomenon for farmers, for the ownership structure of livestock farming in Poland. There is a prospect of liquidation, in the long term Polish ownership, or at least a huge depletion and a great change in the agricultural structure. We propose measures that have already been taken to at least reduce or hinder the development of the hacking stock, in the form of raising VAT to 23% for the use of this practice. Mrs Dorota Niedziela asked what it was like to help those affected by this year's drought. Mr Aichler had a second of his question and his opinion, and he spoke several times about the money, perhaps referring to the amount that was allocated. So to answer Mrs Niedziela's question directly, it must be said that this over-standardity is simply associated with two very important features: the complexity and scale of this assistance. We have compared this aid several times today or this year and the first weeks of the next year, because because of certain financial rules it had to postpone, but not delay - this is something that is paid in one run. We can compare that, for example. to drought completely adequate in terms of different parameters to the one we survived this year. This is about the 2015 drought when Prime Minister Kopacz was still supporting the government. Then it was PLN 450 million in total. At the moment it is already well over PLN 2200 million, which means almost five times this amount. And I repeat, the parameters are similar here. What else is very important here? [[Voice from the room: How much was paid?]] That's the amount that's comprehensive, comprehensive. It was registered a few days ago 338 590 applications for the amount of 2 200 511 thousand. zł. All this money will be paid. 181 371 payment applications for 1360 million have been implemented today. All subsequent tranches are prepared, implemented and in this total amount of over PLN 2200 million will be paid after the New Year. I repeat: comprehensively, in relation to all registered, also in recent weeks of verified and recognised applications, in the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. That's the scale, that's the difference. I think that when we compare it this way and talk about over-standardity, about some complexity and about this five-fold scale, we're just talking about facts and nothing less, nothing more. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u343	Thank you very much. Please, the representative of the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer those questions that you asked during the debate on taxation and the tax system. I'll start by saying it's not like we've introduced 30 new taxes. There are no 30 new taxes. We have introduced two taxes: a bank tax that charges the assets of banks, and a retail tax that has been suspended by the European Commission, we have on this issue an ongoing dispute before the European Court of Justice. As far as bank tax is concerned, it was necessary to introduce it. Why? I'll explain the mechanism. Because if a country imposes a bank tax, it imposes on the assets of all banks in a given group. Therefore, if Poland does not introduce this tax, Polish assets are part of the tax base of a foreign bank, which has its branch, branch or sometimes even a company in Poland. I mean, if you're not. We have an English or a French bank and there is a bank tax, and they invest in Poland, the tax base in the form of Polish assets is taxed in London or Paris. That is why the introduction of banking tax was a necessity and it was done. As for the retail tax, there was a debate here, and we talked about it. I explained that we had a dispute with the European Commission. We have a chance for this dispute to be won by us. We do not know whether this dispute will be won because the court decides on this matter. Mr Andrzej Szlachta asked about the changes we have made in terms of the amount free and in terms of the tax scale. In 2016, the law was passed, which raised the amount of income tax free from individuals to PLN 6600 for the worst earners, and this happened in 2017. In 2018 this amount is free to 8 000. zł. At the same time, by answering questions about pensioners - those worst earning pensioners who earn so little will have a very high amount of free money. So it could happen that they're going to pay a very small tax. I'm assuming it's not like they make 8 grand gross. per year. As regards other changes in the tax scale, in 2017, a 15% corporate tax was introduced, so-called. CIT tax on companies which do not exceed a certain turnover ceiling. At present, this ceiling amounts to 1200 000. EUR per zloty. This year we have raised this ceiling or this year we have introduced a rate of 9% on the revenues that these companies will receive in 2019. So I think that these changes are quite beneficial. We have also introduced the so-called relief this year. IP Box, which will apply in the following year and which we hope will support such actions which, say, develop the Polish economy to a greater extent than normal investments. Mr. Professor. Nykiel asked about the quality of tax law, including the language side. I agree with the professor that this law can sometimes be of poor quality. We try to write them well, we really spend a lot of time on it. In my team, people work for a very long time, they stay out of hours. Unfortunately, these bands are pretty thin. I also have to say to my excuse that there were a lot of things that we had to do, a lot of things. As regards the sealing of the tax system, the necessary legislative changes, which exclude certain possibilities of tax planning, are, I agree, not very simple provisions, rather difficult. However, we must bear in mind that they apply primarily to those who want to manipulate their tax base, the ordinary taxpayer should in principle not have to deal with them. So these regulations that you were talking about today, which concern the reporting of tax schemes in the Tax Order, whether those provisions that concern, I do not know, the anti-tax avoidance clause - also the professor had reservations here - are regulations that are very complicated, but they are not simple in Poland or in other countries. In other countries there is even a worse situation sometimes in my opinion, because these rules may sound simple, but the caselaw and the whole case, which around these rules has been developed over the years of practice, because these rules have existed there for many, even sometimes for 10 years, cause that the average taxpayer has no chance of understanding how they work in practice. With us, the situation is that the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled on what the anti-tax avoidance clause is to be like, and to this judgment of the Constitutional Court these provisions have been adapted. Again I can only say this: a simple, honest Pole who has an ordinary business will not have to deal with these regulations, it does not have to interest him at all. We also try to simplify tax law in such a way that it is understandable to the average user. And now what we want to do, and, I think, what we can do - from this year on, we will start a permanent practice of issuing binding explanations, such as those that protect taxpayers from the negative effects of legislation that are just entering into force. So this is something that has not been there so far, because there have been laws with justification, including justification, there have been, there were justifications for specific regulations, examples, you could see what the legislator was talking about, but the justification of the law itself does not give protection under the provisions of the Tax Order. What we're doing is giving out explanations that would be of such a protective value. The fossil tax," asked Mrs Zofia Czernow. The draft of this tax is currently in the Sejm - actually not the draft of this tax, but the draft of the amendment of this tax. I don't think there's been a first reading yet, but I'm sure it's in the Sejm. This is a proposal which includes such an idea as to allocate some of the money from this tax in the form of a donation for the needs of the region, which, say, bears the burdens associated with the fact that mining or processing activities are carried out in its territory. That's what it looks like at the moment. I think that's all about tax questions. Thank you. [[My questions, my VAT and my changes...]] Excuse me, you asked me what criminals and honest entrepreneurs look like. I'm sorry, sir. You actually asked me that. Returns - I can only say that statistically speaking, the returns last less, we went down a few days compared to the previous year, when it comes to the return date, I do not remember exactly what the return date is at the moment. Statistically, it's about 30 days. This is not much to compare historically with what those terms used to be. I am aware that statistics do not sometimes give away certain anomalies that may occur, but also note that what we are doing in this case is system solutions. We introduced the STIR system, there was a debate in this Chamber on the subject. I piloted this bill when I was still a director at the Ministry. We introduced split payment into VAT - these are solutions that allow us, on the one hand, to speed up refunds, as in split, on the other hand, allow us to actually drain taxpayers who are honest, from taxpayers who are de facto pillars or VAT carousels generators. We've got systems that are already running, and they've been running for STIR in the summer of this year. I think that they are already basically calibrated, but we still need to work a little bit on the quality of the data. However, what we already have is very promising. Thanks to this we capture companies that are very suspicious, and we delete them from VAT records. The point is, this is how we protect honest taxpayers. So far there has been a situation that such a company, which, let's say, generates a merry-go-round or is a pole, we could only pick up after a few, but really after a dozen months since the bad things went down. Now thanks to speed and thanks to the commitment of IT processes and analysis we are able to do it much faster, you can see the results. In 2016, we estimate the VAT gap decreased by 6 billion, in 2017, it is likely to be around 9 billion with a hook, i.e. we estimate that during these 2 years the gap will decrease by 16 billion in total. These are actions that cause the budget to recover, that we have more VAT revenues, even though nothing big has really happened in the system, there have been some very important VAT changes. I'm aware that there may be situations that you've mentioned, that someone, for example. Waiting a long time to return. I believe that both the tax offices and the central national tax administration are open to discussion. If someone thinks that he is injured, you can, there are different ways, pay attention to your injury and ask for some intervention. I think this is the right way in such individual cases. [[If the negative impact of energy price changes on... is the impact of VAT and excise duty on the next year.]] Unfortunately, I am not able to answer that question right now, mainly because I do not deal with excise duties. As far as VAT is concerned, there are no VAT movements in this area, as far as I am aware. [[But the price will be different than planned?]] Perhaps, but if you wish, we can prepare a written answer to that question, okay? Thank you. [[In writing, please.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u345	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sebastian Skuz will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Eve Tomaszewska's question was what the Ministry of Science and Higher Education will do in terms of salaries at the Institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences in 2019. Well, I would like to inform you that such action has already been taken this year. In October of this year, the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences presented information on what amount would be necessary in order for PAN scientists to achieve salaries which would correspond to the minimum salaries specified for teaching and teaching and academic staff in Law 2.0. This amount was estimated by the Polish Academy of Sciences at 49 577 thousand. zł. This week, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin decided to transfer this amount as part of an increase in the statutory grant for Institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences, so this year the institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences will receive these funds as an increase in the statutory grants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State, will now speak on behalf of the Ministry of Environment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer the questions of Mr Głogowski and Mrs Szymańska, who asked about the Clean Air programme, claiming that there is no funding for this programme in the state budget. Clean air funds are secured in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management's financial plan. These are dedicated measures entitled:: RES plus energy efficiency. In addition to these measures, I would like to remind you that regional environmental funds are also expected to contribute to this funding. It is worth noting that since January 2019 the receipt of such a subsidy will be exempt from tax. It is also worth pointing out that, according to the Act adopted, the tax credit will also be available from next year. On a scale of one year we can talk about even more than PLN 1.5 billion. In the course of this discussion, besides this charge which I was talking about now, there were accusations that we did not respect the health of Poles because we did not fight smog. I would like to stress very clearly that the fight against smog is a priority of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We are very consistent in this fight. I also think whether it is fair for Members of the Civic Platform to ask questions or accusations about the fight against smog, since it was this year that we received a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, where it was pointed out that Poland had broken EU rules on air purity standards, where in June 2016 the European Commission alleged that for at least 5 years, i.e. at least until 2013, the daily standards for PM10 dust were exceeded in 35 air quality zones and annual standards for PM10 dust in 9 air quality zones. The European Commission accused Poland that it had not taken appropriate action in air protection programmes to reduce the duration of exceedance of PM10 standards that there was no legislation establishing emission values for fuels used in the individual heating sector. And now that the Government of Law and Justice has made efforts to make up for these arrears, and has led to the adoption of a law on the monitoring and control of fuel quality, the regulations on boiler quality and the clean air programme, with enormous resources, we hear such an objection from the Members of the opposition. I don't know if it's dishonesty or a lot of nerve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u349	Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u350	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Two votes raised the issue of pay for justice workers. I want to explain some things here that are somehow obscured by some media. Well, first of all, actually, a few weeks ago, we were talking about an increase in pay for justice workers, an increase of 5% in 2019. On the other hand, a few hours ago, I presented a proposal from the Ministry of Justice to allocate funds within these 5%. The point is to accept a certain amount, we have accepted the amount of 200 PLN gross, which will be received by every member of the judiciary next year. So it's 2400 zlotys gross. That's the first thing. We have deviated from the rules that have been in place for years with the possible sharing of the amounts of the salary increases for justice workers. There was also a second point, which is the question of prizes. This is about the measures that we have managed to save this year as a resort of justice. In the third tranche this amount is as much as PLN 61 million. I promised a few weeks ago that there would be a third tranche and that the money that we will save - here I thank the Ministry of Finance for the kindness in this area - we will give it to the employees' awards in full, but according to certain rules that we have laid down. That is, all justice workers, and there are over 35 thousand of them, will receive regardless of their position in the court, at about 800 PLN gross. This amount will be paid by Christmas. On the other hand, the second part of the prize, this is up to PLN 1500 gross, will also be paid until Christmas, but will be dependent, will be purely discretionary. This will be decided by the heads of the courts, taking into account the absence in the last three months, they will take into account the reliability of taking up the duties of the individual judicial staff. It'll be a discretionary matter. Thus, in one sentence, the amount of this prize will amount to around PLN 800.2300 gross. This is a very large reward that can be awarded to justice workers. I would also like to add one point which here, in fact, did not come out of this speaker today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the current level of pay for justice workers is the result of the actions of the previous governments above all. During the Civic Platform, the wage growth rate was zero, and we really did in 2016, assuming responsibility for the state, found the Ministry of Justice in such a situation that employees received an average of PLN 3,600 per month, together with allowances and prizes. At the end of 2017, this amount increased by several percent and already amounted to PLN 4200, of course gross. And this is the average amount, calculated on the basis of all the salaries, taking into account also the allowances and rewards that we have paid quite well in recent years. For example, a year ago it was over 130 million, this year it is 130 million. This isn't some amount we're giving ourselves. That's a lot of money. In 2015, for example, during the Platform, 50 million PLN of prizes were paid throughout the year. Right now it's 2.5 times 3 times more. It's a lot. Of course, we respect the work of justice workers very much, we respect workers very much. I say this in the context of various media news that we don't respect that we're depreciating... Not at all. The justice system without employees cannot function. It's about the entire justice system, as well as the D.A.'s office. I am also looking at the Member here. However, the way to solve problems is not to conduct any protest. It's the wrong way. The word came out, and we kept our word. Today, with my mouth, as if we've given information about this, there are proposals from the Ministry of Justice. This is completely independent of any protest. On the other hand, I would like to say that indeed the system of pay for justice workers is sometimes a system that raises doubts. I intend to meet with the trade union organisations next Tuesday and present the first proposals for possible changes. Of course, we will want to consult them primarily with the finance department, and we are trying to find some sources so that these salaries can be changed. One day, I'll remind you, employees' salaries were even connected to judges... It was many, many years ago. Then, at the time of the Platform, it was brought to a situation in which, actually, in terms of wages, workers were scrubbing down. Because that's the truth. When wages grew elsewhere, there the wage growth rate was simply zero. Today, on the other hand, there is good information for employees about the increase in salaries next year and about the rewards that we will pay by Christmas this year. So that I ask all the workers to return to their posts, because without them, of course, the justice system cannot function. Once again, I would like to stress very clearly that we very, very much respect the work of over 35 thousand. People. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u351	Thank you very much, Minister. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Ms Anna Moscow, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's argument was that no budget resources were earmarked for water conservation. The same is true as the fact that there is no means to protect the air. I will try to indicate in the budget the amounts secured for different types of water protection. I'll start with the nitrate program. Let me remind you that this is a programme resulting from a directive that the opposition failed to deal with: 2014, a judgment of the Court of Justice, potentially the highest amount of punishment that has ever threatened Poland by the European Union. We have implemented this programme this year, securing a total amount of 1120 million from the resources of RDPs and NFOŚ - June 2018. The second amount for water protection is the amount associated with hydrogeology in the budget of the State Geological Institute. In total, 117 million were allocated to services, hydrogeology, hydrometeorology and firewall control. That's 100% funding for service needs. It's a waste water theme. Until 2021 - 116 treatment plant programme, 1060 modernisation, almost 15 thousand. km of the network, 3.5 thousand. km of modernisation, a total of 28 billion plus individual cleaning systems of 80 million. Finally, PLN 631 million in the budget of Polish Waters for the maintenance of water and water equipment. I will also remind you that the budget of Polish Waters for the following year has been increased by almost PLN 0.5 billion. There was also a thesis that there was no retention programme, no retention activities. We've prepared a program like this. In January, we start consulting the program. With current retention rate, 7% , it is possible to increase retention to a maximum level of 15% . Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask the floor of Minister Tomasz Robaczyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As the last answer to the questions, I would like to address some of the very general issues that were raised in the discussion - in the questions, but above all in the debate. One of the main questions or questions that have been raised here are questions about a balanced budget. The point is that this balanced budget should be implemented as soon as possible. Members of Kukiz will consider this as an axiom, i.e. It's supposed to be that way. I would like to point out that Mr Grabowski, who presented such a thesis, also tabled amendments concerning the implementation of two investments in the Opole Voivodeship, which really increase these expenditures. Here such a general observation, because it is already another budget debate: it must always be taken into account that these are all connected vessels. It is difficult not to get the impression that there is some inconsistency in these voices: a balanced budget is proposed or a reduction in the deficit, while proposing amendments concerning, of course, things that are very positive or very necessary, but de facto leading to an increase in this deficit and an increase in public debt. I would appeal to you in such discussions... Of course, the issues you are talking about are important, but on the purely financial side it is: either to reduce the deficit or to find new sources of funding, i.e. new taxes. It's either investment or less debt. You have to really choose one of the solutions here, you can't have everything at the same time. The same applies, for example, to VAT issues. This maintained rate, 23% , gives 7 billion PLN in the budget. There are voices that this rate should be reduced to 22%, while further amendments are being tabled to increase the expenditure of the state budget, i.e. to deepen this deficit or public debt. There have been comparisons with de facto deficits in the public finance sector - not so much budget deficits as deficits in the public finance sector - in other EU countries. It has been said that 14 countries of the European Union currently have a surplus, but consideration must be given to what countries they are. These are countries such as Malta, Luxembourg, Lithuania, Cyprus, the Netherlands, which are essentially incomparable in terms of the scale of the economy. These countries are somewhat comparable - those that actually have a surplus - are Greece and Germany, but as far as Greece is concerned, it is difficult here to pursue the kind of mechanisms that had to be applied in Greece because of the situation, and it is difficult to put Greece as a model. And since Germany, it must also be taken into account that it is an economy with a GDP of 6 and 7 times the GDP of Poland. Of course, the pace of development is not comparable, the time of economic development of Germany and Poland is definitely different, as is seen in the strength of the Polish and German economies. As a result, the fact that Germany has a budget surplus does not mean that it is actually possible in Poland, and I would also like to point out that in such comparable countries, in countries to which we compare, like France, Spain, this deficit is higher everywhere. In France, the projected deficit in the public finance sector is 2.62% , in Spain it is 2.67% which is definitely higher than in Poland. And the last point that one of Kukiz's Members presented here,15, that Poland from its resources or Poles from its taxes finance what comes back to the European Union, means that it is returning from the European Union to Poland in the form of EU funds, and that it should not be. I just wanted to point out that since Poland joined the European Union, the balance of flows between Poland and the European Union is over EUR 104 billion on the plus. We would simply not have these resources, these are, of course, funds which are partly paid by Poland also to the European Union budget, but above all taken from the European Union budget powered by net payers, i.e. it is definitely not that we pay exactly what we ultimately receive. And this is basically all the general issues that have emerged in the debate. For my part, because there is usually no time for this at third reading, I would like to thank the Members and the opposition, and the governing party for a constructive debate on the budget and for long-term work in both parliamentary debates and in the Committee on Public Finance, which is probably still ahead of us, also in connection with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u355	Thank you very much. That concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise the issue of the financial situation of the veterinary inspection staff. The process of raising their salaries, like other members of the civil service corps, has been ongoing for several years, although symbolic. Currently, a permanent shortage of staff is felt in the Veterinary Inspection (IW) due to the departure of specialised staff: veterinarians, laboratory staff and administration. Lots of jobs are uninsured. In addition, the number of tasks of the Veterinary Inspection is increasing, i.e. due to the eradication of African swine fever (ASF). The continued operation of inspections with such significant staff shortages due to extremely low wages threatens the lack of effective performance of the tasks entrusted. The remuneration proposed at the time of recruitment for the IW also creates problems in hiring young veterinary surgeons. Unwanted lack, recruitment attempts become ineffective. Question: "Is there a security in the 2019 special-purpose reserve for IW employees' salary increases, possibly to what extent?" According to the Head of Civil Service, such a security would amount to PLN 33.6 million. It would strengthen staff inspections, increase motivation for work and safeguard effective action on the identified tasks, including the fight against ASF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft budget law for 2019 following the work on this project in committee. What should a well-structured state budget be like? It should be realistic. And all points to the fact that the proposal put forward to the High House has the most important feature. He should be honest. It's a very difficult task. We all know the eternal problem behind the short covers. But the construction of this budget deserves to be called fair and just. The budget should create development and progress, not stagnation, not stagnation. It is beyond any doubt a budget geared towards the very dynamic development of our country. This is a proposal that can fully translate into security and an ever better material position of Polish citizens. In a word, it's a good budget, with all due support. It cannot be forgotten that it is a budget constructed by people like nobody else before them deserved to increase the resources that our country can have today. The criticism of the authors of the budget today falls on the part of those whose government finances were holes like a sieve. It is necessary to have no shame to attack deserved for public finances today as no one before them, while belonging to those who were responsible for the most pressing needs of Polish families and the entire Polish society: well, where are the treasures you are talking about buried? This budget is not the work of such losers who were snatched from under the nose, nor of those who consciously or unconsciously, actively or out of their characteristic indifference to the affairs of the state, allowed public money to be stolen. This budget is the work of the winners in the great, ruthless war run by the VAT mob. It's about these mafias, about which one of the leaders of the opposition site with fascination in Owl and Friends said: it's a business better than drug trafficking. We consider the proposed budget to be optimal, even very good. Hence she will have the full support of our circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u358	In view of the fact that the draft amendment was tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 19 hours 21 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. [[President of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki enters the room, applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Council of Ministers led by the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the election of Mr Grzegorz Schetin as President of the Council of Ministers (Print No. 3069). I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Schetyn to state his reasons for the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This power is so scared. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The President and the Prime Minister have done everything they can not to stand with us for equal debate on equal terms. Tricks, runways, cheap playoffs - we saw it on Tuesday. [[We learn from the best.]] Just don't talk, just avoid the debate. But the debate is. And you know who's afraid of simple words, who's afraid of the truth? [[PO-KO.]] The answer is one: liars are afraid. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Only a liar will always hide and key. Therefore, with this greater conviction I am applying today for the removal of Matthew Morawiecki's office. [[Applause]] I am thus fulfilling the fundamental duty of the opposition, which is to dismiss the evil government. It's our duty. [[Voice from the hall: But this is a good government.]] I'll start with a quote. Jarosław Kaczyński said, "You can't let the public know we're lying." [[Applause]] Mateusz Morawiecki, must admit, has taken up this challenge. But he didn't even do it because he had to admit a lie twice in public. [[Joy, excitement in the courtroom, applause]] All because they failed to destroy free courts. After so many months of intimidation, destruction, juggling by laws, the court that was supposed to eat from the hands of PiS turned out to be independent and sentenced the Prime Minister for lying. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That must have hurt. But an honest man would burn out of shame after that sentence. And you're not. [[You should have been here a long time ago.]] On Wednesday, we heard the Prime Minister's new promises. And tomorrow we'll hear another one - at the party convention of PiS, on the anniversary of the party reunion of PZPR, the uprising of PZPR, it's been 70 years. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But no one listens to you seriously anymore. When lies become everyday, people, Poles, begin to immunize. You lied about your taxes. According to your estimates of your own officials from the tax increases and new taxes you have introduced, you will train more than 20 billion zlotys out of the pocket of Poles than you will pay them in the reductions you are so proud of. But in addition to taxes you drain Poles' pockets by various kinds of parataxes, fees and contributions. In total, you put one new fiscal burden on Poles per month. You lied from that lecturer, as you supposedly make life easier for entrepreneurs. For your governments in terms of ease of running business Poland, instead of further moving up, as in the last 8 years... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...falled from 24th to 33rd place in the world. In turn, in terms of economic freedom, it fell again below the EU average. You've wasted what we've given you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] And the effect is that the share of investment in GDP has fallen for your governments to the lowest level in 20 years. Yes, Mr. Suski, yes, yes, it hurts very much, it hurts. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: You're delusional.]] It's all numbers, it's true, it's true. You lied about government investments. If you could, for example. on national roads to make a percentage of GDP like us in the times of two major crises in the world, it would go for more than a quarter more than you spend today. You can't even carry out your flagship projects. You can't do this. Not to mention the living plus, everything that's already out of your hands. But the bridge for the regions, your flagship project. You claim that this is credibility, it's a sign of credibility for your government. I'll tell you what this credibility looks like - 15 million PLN in next year's budget. For 15 million zlotys, you can plan at most 21 pieces, not 21 bridges. [[Applause]] I know what I'm saying, because under the Platform and PSL, the number of bridge objects increased by over 3,000. You lied about your big arms shopping. In next year's budget, you planned to upgrade the army by 13.5%. less than we in the 2015 budget. [[Shame!]] ...the last budget of the Platform. [[Applause]] If you wanted to use the same percentage of GDP as in that budget to modernise the army, you'd have to increase spending by 43.5%... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and stop wasting this money for non-defendant purposes, e.g. District shooting galleries. [[Applause]] [[And your planes.]] And VIP planes, of course. Before we start listening to new fantasies, we would like to hear what you have to say about Polish electric cars, what your program looks like. [[Cheer, cheer in the hall, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Yes, sir.]] But we could also have fun hearing about the vanquishing of the Vistula Mill. So far, it has been a success for President Kaczyński to put the pole in. Everybody saw it. [[No success. That pole's gone.]] There was a pump on the beach. The sea has taken the pole, there is no pole. [[Applause]] But the sea reflected and gave up the pole, so you got the pole back, Prime Minister, bravo, that's a great success for you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If you're looking seriously at what you're planning to do when it comes to the Vistula mine excavation, then because of the resources you've planned in the budget, I think this excavation will be ready in 2047. That's the truth about your promises. [[Applause]] [[Unless you're back in power.]] Maybe the Prime Minister will follow the punch and find the plaque that faked the keel in Szczecin. That sign's gone, too. No one's counting on the planned construction of the shuttle anymore, even you forgot about it. [[Yes, sir.]] Where it was supposed to rise, it's empty, wind blows and newspapers fly. [[And then the club fell.]] You are deceiving us that you want Poland in the European Union. In fact, you're systematically implementing the creeping polyxit. Poland as the first country in the history of the European Union has been covered by the procedure with Article. 7. Today, the European Court of Justice must deal with the violation of EU treaties, and in matters of fundamental importance. The best proof of your true intentions in this matter is that Zbigniew Ziobra has brought EU treaties before the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Yes, sir.]] This is very clear to all: the official questioning of the EU treaties is to question our membership of the European Union and it must be said out loud. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] And that's your whole policy. You say one thing, you do the other. The elections to the European Parliament are coming up - almost 6 months, 26 May - and suddenly, after 3 years, you are no longer disturbed by the EU flag. You're trying to convince us Poles that you love the Union again. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You are referring to this Union, which your President Andrzej Duda calls an imaginary community, which shows little to you, because the same president, as proof of what you are, recommends an article comparing the European Union to the Fourth Reich. [[Yes, sir.]] I won't mention the Union's rags again... [[Is this a vote for the president or the prime minister?]] ...because it's below any level. [[Applause]] [[Shame on you, man.]] [[We're not on you.]] [[Shut up. Shame on you quietly.]] You do not want Poland in the European Union, since you have absolutely trampled on all the principles and values that are the foundation of the Community. You are receiving Poland the opportunity to effectively pursue our interests abroad. You have taken away from Poles the respect they have enjoyed abroad in recent years, all over the world. Respect and respect that we've worked hard to earn. You destroyed it cynically and instantly. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It's hard to even say that your foreign policy is incompetent, chaotic, harmful or visionless, because it's hard to assess something that just doesn't exist. Foreign policy does not exist, there is no foreign policy under the PiS. You have replaced Polish foreign policy with a plot, and the Foreign Office has brought to the role of a party outbuilding. Let's ask another question. It is said that the budgetary situation in Poland is extraordinary, great, deficit is almost gone, and money is in beards, we heard it on Wednesday. If it's so good, why don't the budget workers get raises? [[Applause]] [[Don't they get it? No?]] Why do teachers, nurses, cops work for so little pay? If it's so good, don't promise, just give it to me. [[They get it, they get it.]] What's stopping you? Who forbids you from fulfilling your promises? [[Applause]] Another issue is chaos around energy prices. If there's no increase in energy prices, as we heard on Wednesday, why would we announce them? We need to prepare for what you want to do. [[You're the ones who announced it.]] Who's lying to the public? Prime Minister Morawiecki or Minister Tchórzewski? Make this decision so the Poles can know how to judge you. [[The voice from the hall: Because of you are these...]] For years, you've been telling Poles that you're fighting big cases, some mythical arrangement... [[Voice from the room: Caryca.]] ...who was born. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Greetings.]] Today, there is absolutely no doubt that this arrangement was not imagined. [[Voice from the room: Amber Gold. Amber Gold.]] He really exists, except it was you who created him. You guys made this deal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You've told me, you've tried to tell Poles a lie, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] All but you are thieves, and it turns out that you are the patrons of the greatest scandals. That's you guys. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] A corporate affair in KNF is an example of how the PiS state works - a party farm in which you turned Poland. [[Give me 260 billion.]] And you're not gonna blow this whole thing under the rug... [[Give me 260 billion.]] ...just like you can't tell us that Mr. Chrzanowski acted alone. This is not Zdzisława's plan. Prime Minister, this is not even a Moravian plan. For your actions in this matter, Prime Minister, for your meetings at the Temple of Providence, for your tardiness of services, for your manipulation of the bill, so as to be able to finish and take over the banks for gold, for arresting Wojciech Kwasniak, a man who, fighting the Mafia of SKOK, almost lost his life, you and the entire government should resign immediately. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Some Members chant: Dismiss! Dismissed!]] KNF is the tip of the iceberg. Everyone knows that. She shows us in all splendor prepared over the years Kaczyński's plan, implemented today with the help of vassal state institutions and government figures. Mr. President, is that why you took over the services and the D.A.'s office to protect this arrangement? Yeah, that's why you did it. [[That's right, you're defending the deal.]] I'd like to say a few words, go back to a painful case that, in a strange way, disappeared from the PiS banners. You have a party reunion tomorrow, maybe you'll answer that question. It's been three years of your rule. Where's your Smolensk investigation? Where's the new evidence? Where's the plane wreck? [[Voice from the room: Where's the wreckage?]] You don't even talk about it anymore. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Shame!]] This was the most important thing in the world for you. Why are you silent? [[Applause]] Suddenly it's not? [[They're ashamed.]] Aren't you interested in that anymore? Or maybe it was just to distract you. [[Yes, sir.]] ...as in the KNF incident today? Maybe those who see it as just a political game are right. When I look at the PiS, when I look at you today, it reminds me of the decline of the PZPR. [[Voice from the room: Don't look.]] And then they forgot the ideology, [[Applause]] busy tearing down state property, and they just lied, lied to the end like you did, just like the PiS lied. [[Applause]] And I recognize in you the same cynicism, greed and arrogance, the same abhorrence and fear of reckoning. [[What about ……]] What the Communists took 30 years, you guys did in three years. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Today we are again wondering as an opposition how to rebuild the state. We need to make up for lost time. [[Just to be as it was?]] Instead of rebuilding and reconstructing, we will build according to new patterns, state-of-the-art patterns. But first things first. We're gonna stop this creeping polyxit. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] But that's not enough. [[Applause]] We will bring Poland back to the hard core of Europe, where we belong. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[You've never been there.]] Together with the largest countries, we will decide again on the future of our continent. We're gonna get our money back from the Union, we're not gonna get enough money, we're gonna get more money. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Poland as a country, but above all the local Poland will gain new development momentum. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] As far as the Polish school is concerned, we are not going to do any more revolutions... [[Voice from the room: No?]] ...but we're gonna clean up this PiS mess. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lock up.]] We're gonna put in an elementary order so that parents and children don't feel confused and confused like today. The real story and the normal reading canon will come back. [[Applause]] [[And the retirement age, too?]] [[Retirement duck sent.]] We will not forget about the victim before the yearbook deformity, about the thousands of children whom PiS hinders or prevents today's dream of school. We'll keep in mind the dignified pay of teachers, [[Applause]] who have begun to be treated as enemies and ignored by you in raises. As far as security is concerned, Poland will have a true minister of defence, I promise. The Minister of Defense won't be a joke like the last one and the last one. [[Applause]] Poland will stop being lonely, we will not stand in a corner, we will conduct an active, normal foreign policy that will give us allies and security. [[Voice from the room: On your knees.]] We live in difficult and uncertain times, full of international tensions and growing national egoisms. Therefore, today Poland needs a stable, secure and united Europe, [[Applause]] which will provide peace and protect us from the nightmare of another war. The rule of law and honesty - we prepare, prepare a package of laws. The Act of Restoration of the Republic of Poland will remove all the anti-democratic, compromising records that your authority has pushed through. [[Applause]] We will introduce transparent recruitment procedures for all public institutions and companies of the Treasury. [[Applause]] [[Uh-huh.]] [[Yes, sir.]] In NGOs, we will see a partner and an ally, not an enemy like you today. [[Applause]] The Poles will make more money, we will take care of increases in employees. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Can you calm your friend down? Because I'm gonna have to do it. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We'll remember the police, the nurses and the officials. We're gonna slow down the crazy price. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] We'll start treating the farmers with respect, unlike you. [[Applause]] We will not do shows and conferences in barns, but we will deal with the real problem of the village - more effectively. Farmers must not be deceived about drought and ASF. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] 500+. We're gonna make sure that single mothers finally get them. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Keep your voice down!]] There will be no more discrimination, children are equal. [[Applause]] We will extend this program to include the first child in the family. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Not only will we restore, but we will also introduce with all determination, we will fight violence and discrimination. We will fight for women's rights, for dignity. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! You can lie, but you can't rule. You have complained that the opposition does not make constructive proposals. I'll give you a hint: since you don't have your own ideas for governance, and yet you don't want to give up, all you have to do is start adopting the projects we're putting together... [[Voice from the room: Uh-huh.]] ...assembles the Civic Platform instead of throwing it away, then the lives of Poles will really become lighter. [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]] You just have to vote, for example. behind the project of a platform that introduces one low... [[Voice from the room: One bowl.]] [[A bowl.]] ... The 5% VAT rate on all food in place of the existing three, as it is now, and the problem of expensive food would be mitigated. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Why don't you want to do it? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: One bowl.]] We've put together a bill to reduce excise duty on electricity. It is a simple solution to mitigate increases in electricity prices, both for households and for companies. You don't want to give up, and you don't have your own ideas, so take ours, let the Poles now feel relieved in their home budgets, not just next year when you lose your power... [[Yes, sir.]] ...when the Poles take her away from you. [[Applause]] I'll give you another hint. You're happy that half your monthly salary stays in the citizen's pocket because of your politics. You should be ashamed of yourself because that means you're draining the other half of your monthly salary from the citizen's pocket. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'll share with you two elements of the remodeling of the tax system, which is being prepared by experts involved by the Civic Platform... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No logic.]] Can you calm down? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[They got scared, they got scared.]] ...which are prepared by experts engaged by the Civic Platform and which, I assure you, we will introduce when the Poles take away your power. [[Voice from the room: Experts...]] [[It hurts, it hurts.]] Firstly, we will rebuild the tax system so that taxes and contributions, i.e. PIT, ZUS and the contribution to the NFZ, do not exceed a total of 35% of Poles' earnings. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Secondly, anyone who works and earns less than twice the minimum wage will receive additional support. In the case of earners, the minimum wage will be PLN 500 per month. [[Applause]] Nearly PLN 30 billion will go into the pocket of hardworking citizens, 1/3 more than in the 500+ programme. Work has to pay off. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Since you don't have your own ideas and you don't want to step down, I appeal to you, please accept our higher wages program, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Let's go. You will stop caring only about the Pisiewics and put up glass ceilings for others. These glass ceilings need to be broken, they need to be effectively broken, and we will if you can't and you won't. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I'd like to invite you right now. Tomorrow at hours. 10 Professor Andrzej Rzońc, chief economist of the Civic Platform, [[Joy in the Chamber]] will present the programme with higher wages, provide details of this programme. In every area of the country, in every element of the life of Poles we have plans for repair and development. We are ready to humbly take on hard work for Poland, because we believe that Poland has a future. Two more words for you at the end. [[It's over.]] Apart from everything we do for Poland, for Poles and Poles, we will settle you... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] ...we're gonna settle the PiS out of every penny you've taken, out of every crime, out of every wickedness. He's not gonna get away with any of you. But for the time being, I am filing for the resignation of the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Voice from the room: What about 100 years?]] If he had a shadow of honor, he'd resign immediately. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u360	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Chief economist PiS Mr Bielecki.]] [[It's not signed where you're supposed to sit.]] [[I took Kuchcinski's place maybe a little too fast.]] I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm only the President of the Council of Ministers may take the floor after the list of speakers has been exhausted. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Marcin Horała has the floor as the first member of the Parliamentary Club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. Won't Prime Minister! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] High Izbo! Today we are debating a vote of distrust, a constructive vote of distrust, in fact a change of Prime Minister and a change of government, a change of government from the government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the government of the Civic Platform and the future Prime Minister of Schetin. [[Voice from the room: You add time accidentally.]] [[Voice from the room: Why doesn't time count?]] This is a very simple choice... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: What time is it?]] ...this is a very simple alternative. Do we want the retirement age in Poland to be... [[Time.]] ...60 years for women and 65 years for men... [[Voices from the room: 100 years.]] ...with a free choice, or 67 years of forced labor, at least, some say 100 years? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No choice.]] No choice. Do we want 500+ to be paid to Polish families or not paid? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because under the Platform, as we know, there's no 500+ money and there won't be, you said it yourself. [[Voice from the room: You should have listened.]] Do we want the budget deficit in Poland to be below 1% , as in the rule of law and justice, or almost 8% How has this ever been done under the Platform? [[Applause]] Do we want the minimum wage to be PLN 2250 gross, like the PiS government, or should we reduce it by PLN 500, so that it is like that of the Platform? [[Applause]] Are we supposed to reduce the lowest pension by PLN 250 to make it the same as under the Platform's rule... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] ...and also other salaries and pensions? This is a very simple choice. Do we want six-year-olds to be run into schools like under the Platform, or do we want it to be a free choice of parents, like he introduced the PiS? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Do we want the Polish army to be equipped with Patriot rockets or thousands of Mendeleev plates as well as with the Platform? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Do we want Poles' pension savings to be taken away from them, as the OFE Platform did, or multiplied in employee capital plans, as proposed by Law and Justice? [[Applause]] Finally, do we want the place of those who are subject to serious corruption charges to be in custody, in front of the prosecutor, or in the party authorities, as is the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was looking at the shadow office, which means this future office of the future Prime Minister Schetin. There's Mr. Stanisław Gawłowski, head of the Permanent Committee, there's Mr. Sławomir Neumann, Minister of Infrastructure, people under serious prosecutorial charges. After all, if this government had been formed, his meetings would have to be held in the prison hall. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[What about Bielecki and Bielecki?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Grzegorz Schetyna promised here... Many beautiful promises were made to Poles. [[What about Lex Horal?]] Are they real? Of course not. It's all a lie. You don't have to remember 8 years of Platform rule. You can see what's happening now in the cities ruled by the Platform. The presidents haven't made it to the office yet... [[Voice from the room: Trzaskowski.]] ...and the first thing they have to do as soon as possible is raise taxes for Poles, raise fees. [[You're defending a pedophile, that's what's happening.]] In Łódź the fees for garbage - 80% up, water charges - 50% Up, up, up, up, up, up, [[Voice from the hall: What about Trzaskowski?]] ...parking fees - 30% up, tickets - 20% up. In Warsaw thousands of Warsawers were deceived, lied. You took their bonuses. Every Warsawer who lives in an apartment with perpetual use... [[Minister Gowin.]] ...in the reign of the Platform will lose several dozen, tens of thousands of zlotys. [[Applause]] God forbid it ever happens all over the country. It is the only real platform program that implements always and everywhere when it gets to power: raise taxes, raise fees, take reliefs, take benefits. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Somehow you have to raise billions to pay them off to the reprivatization mob. or the VAT mob. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] That's the basic difference. The government of law and justice takes billions of dollars from the mob and pays to the Poles, and the government of the Platform... [[Voice from the room: PiS-owska mafia.]] ...reversely, he takes Poles and pays to the mob. [[Applause]] That's why converting Matthew Morawiecki's government to the government of the future Prime Minister Schetin is like turning a Ferrari into a trabant or a scooter. Nobody's gonna trade for that. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: The scooters are the future.]] That's why I'm suggesting it's better. [[Applause]] Everyone continues to deal with what he was created for, what works well for him: Prime Minister Morawiecki - the Polish government... [[Go home now.]] ...and the future Prime Minister Schetyna - the destruction of the Modern. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Lubu-du!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u362	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition - Ms Ewa Kopacz will speak. You're welcome. [[Now it's a little serious.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two days ago, here in this room, Mateusz Morawiecki actually started an election campaign of the ruling party, of which there is no doubt. [[Voice from the room: The campaign lasts all the time.]] It wasn't by chance that he started it here, in a parliament where the PiS Members are going to vote criminally, as the mother party tells you, because here you feel safe, because here you have the majority, here you control the situation, you have your marshal, you occupy government benches, you are very, very confident of yourself. You know how I feel about what you've been doing in the last few weeks? That they feel fear, even terror, [[Applause]] Because you know perfectly well that you still have most of it in this room, but you no longer have it among Poles. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] The identifying mark of your governments was not, and certainly is not law and justice. The hallmark of your governments is lying, manipulating, expensive, hypocritical, and nepotism. [[Applause]] On the last Wednesday, Prime Minister Morawiecki told the world that he had suddenly cut the queues to doctors. Prime Minister, tell that to the Polish patients. You must be... [[Listen to me.]] ...they'll believe it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Prime Minister, I remember you and your ministers from the last self-government campaign, when you had such difficulty building and opening roads long ago by your predecessors. I remember how you wanted to build bridges on non-existent rivers. [[Applause]] But what's awkward, Prime Minister, is that you are burdening your predecessors with rising energy prices, forgetting to add that the 2014 climate summit will be in place after 2020. What year is it today? [[Touchdown, applause]] Cynism, cynicism... [[How is she supposed to know that?]] [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know.]] [[You have to walk on the ground to know.]] ...or ignorance? Pick whatever you want. [[Applause]] You have informed from this speaker, Prime Minister, that your desire is for Poles to unite. It's time to ask, who's saying this? This is said by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who at the birthday party Radio Maryja divided Poles again, saying that not everyone loves their country as much as the guests of this party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] Instead of actually working on the reconciliation of Poles, you, Prime Minister, went into tangles with Father Rydzyk. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] My advice: please get down on the ground and listen to the Poles. You'd be surprised how many real patriots who love Poland you'd meet in your way. And you'd be even more surprised if you found out it wasn't just your piss buddies. [[Applause]] [[Who's writing this to you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Poles need to know, they need to know that you lie when you lay keels under non-existent ferries, you lie when you stick poles under non-existent excavations, you lie when you tell people you're building a million electric cars. And finally, Prime Minister, you have told here from this speaker that Poles are happy under your rule. I have a heartfelt request for you. Now, before Christmas, take the same basket, the same denomination bill, go to the same store where President Kaczyński was shopping during the election campaign, and see what you can put in that basket. [[Applause]] And then ask the Poles how much Christmas cost them. This wave of raises, which is flooding Poland, is about to realize to everyone who is going on Christmas shopping that your concern for their fate is just a campaign slogan, another lie that you have been feeding to Poles for 3 years. In conclusion, this government is one big financial pyramid. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] The piss with a bunch of relatives and babies is gonna make a profit, and ordinary citizens are gonna stay on the ice. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of free Poland, you have turned the prosecution into a political police force that, at the request of politicians, is able to put anyone in jail. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Disgraceful!]] You've shown me how heartless you can destroy... [[The homie's gonna put you in jail, too.]] ...the second man, his reputation and his work. Wojciech Kwaśniak's case proves that. To maintain power and cover your scandals, you will not go back to anything. This is your true nature. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Prime Minister! You were so happy to thank your ministers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'll tell you, next year, the Poles will tell you... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u364	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u365	Thank you, sir. [[Applause]] I think... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u366	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Thank you, too.]] [[Voice from the hall: Thank you, ma'am.]] Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much, very much. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u367	...the last sentence. [[Voice from the room: Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u368	There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u369	There are 100 reasons why... [[Voice from the room: Shut up.]] ...you should leave. Your behavior in the courtroom is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u370	But that's not what we agreed. It was supposed to be a formula. Thank you very much, Member. Please leave the podium. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[We never agreed on anything with you.]] [[Don't yell.]] Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. [[Voice out of the O.R.: You're shutting it down.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You're turning it off.]] [[Voice from the room: Who are you turning off?]] I'll enforce time. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] But... [[But rudeness on this side seems to justify it.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u371	The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition supports the motion to give a vote of distrust to Prime Minister Morawiecki and his government and at the same time supports the election of Grzegorz Schetin as the next Prime Minister. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Let's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[And the Platform Club never dated you for anything.]] [[Don't yell and don't wave a finger.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u372	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I think it would be a good start to start by telling citizens who are watching this debate, explaining what a vote of confidence is and what a constructive vote of distrust is. Well, we had a vote of confidence two days ago, and it was that the Prime Minister applied for a vote of confidence in his government and the Sejm after a debate that looked like this, and not otherwise, decided that he was giving it a vote of confidence. It is not surprising when the ruling party has the majority in this parliament. On the other hand, today we are considering a constructive motion for a vote of distrust for the Prime Minister, which means that if this proposal is supported, the Prime Minister will cease to be Prime Minister, but at the same time, Mr Grzegorz Schetyna will be the Prime Minister. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we thought we should check these differences. [[Voice from the room: And that would be the plan.]] Because lately President Kaczyński said that PiS and PO are not the same parties. Despite this, the slogans that are going on - PiS, PO, one evil - somewhere on the Internet, Mr President said that they are not the same parties, so let's see if we should not trust the Prime Minister and trust Mr Schetyna. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the room: to Nitras.]] Tax, then. You introduced 30 new taxes, sometimes danin, sometimes fees, because you didn't always call them taxes... [[But how did you vote in favour of VAT?]] ...but you've introduced 30 new taxes. You've also introduced 30 new taxes. Moreover, in 2011, temporarily, for 2 years you raised VAT to 23%, then your governments still didn't lower it, they continued to raise it, so it bloomed at 23%... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If you have anything to say, it's in your statements. But you have also recently raised this tax to 23% instead of letting it fall to 22% in December. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] You can scream, you can't hear. Another thing. Budget debt. You don't know anything about sustainable budgets. [[Voice from the room: You two know each other.]] You talk a lot about him, but you all owe the budget: both, and one Prime Minister, and possibly the next Prime Minister. Children are born every day to pay our debts. Therefore, you have no idea of a balanced budget. And hiring. The subject has been very popular lately. Did you hire them? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Oh, no.]] You hired your own, you hired your own. [[Applause]] That's why we put together an anti-sitva bill and see if you can support it. If you support it, it means that you say, "Okay, we've had as much as we can, and that's enough, that's enough." If you do not support it, it will be clear to Poles that you want to keep digging. [[Applause]] So, my dears, you've all hired. For now, I don't see the difference between you two, so I don't know how to choose between the plague and the cholera. Come on. Lies. That's my favorite subject. Remember, folks, how much I was rooting for you back then at the beginning of your term of office? There was a long meeting of the Sejm and there was an audit of the PO governments, they said how bad it was, how bad it was, how many notifications it would be to the D.A.'s office. Where are they? Where are those notices? Where are the cases? There's nothing. [[Applause]] [[Golden Mercedes.]] Another thing. Prime Minister Szydło promised on 20 June 2015 500 PLN per child and it was not a mistake. It's not there. It's for another baby. It's for another baby. Another thing. Raising the tax-free amount. I don't see it. If anybody can see, put your hand up. So lies, lies, lies again. Remember the democratic package? You promised that there would be no rejection of citizens' projects at first reading. What are you doing? You're rejecting it. You said there'd be an elimination of the Seym freezer. It seems to me that Mr. Marshal has enlarged this freezer that it's under the entire Sejm because almost all our projects are frozen there. The Civic Platform, its representative Mr. Schetyna, maybe the future prime minister. Let's see if he lied. Elimination of the Senate, halving the number of Members, lifting immunity and finally introducing one-mandate electoral districts. [[Applause]] Does that mean anything to you? Yeah, it was in 2005, they collected 750,000. signatures. You cut them down, you got the power, you ruled eight years, you did nothing. There wasn't even a referendum to ask... So how can you be trusted? So we wasted 1 million PLN because about this much costs the day of the Sejm's work: on Tuesday we wasted 3/4 of this 1 million and today we wasted 250 thousand. for this circus under the slogan: a vote of confidence and a vote of distrust. Let me remind you that if we vote in favour of this proposal for a constructive vote of distrust towards the Prime Minister's governments, it will mean that we support Mr Schetin, and if we oppose it, it will mean that we support the Prime Minister, and I have just shown that there is no difference between them that it is one and the same. That is why Kukiz15 will abstain. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't make excuses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u374	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! When you listened to Prime Minister Morawiecki on Wednesday, you could get the impression that every day he was doing prima Aprilis to himself and Poland. The cabaret skills are there, so why don't you join the comedy club? [[Applause]] You've mastered the tricks flawlessly, juggling lies, half-truths, manipulations. You throw the Kalumnia beautifully at your opponents, but Prime Minister, today is the time to stand in the truth. For the past year, you've been tripping over the truth, moving on like nothing's happened and lying all the time. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Today, Poles no longer expect you to tell the truth, they expect silence. You have to shut up and leave. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But worse than your lies are for our compatriots today unfulfilled promises. Let's start with the health department. You said during your exposé that this was an extremely important matter. It's true. So what have you done this year? What are the lines to the specialists? You have to wait almost 3.5 months, to the endocrinologist - 23 months, to the orthodontist - 11 months, to the immunologist - 9. [[Voice from the room: A Kaczyński without a queue.]] What about the dentobuses? Where do they go in Poland? With a candle to look for. Of the 5 million students, 15 thousand. It was an honor to be treated in the dentobus. What's going on with the national oncology institute? What's going on with the national cardiac program? There are 5,000 pilots left. persons. What about agriculture? [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] You went to the country, you ate some cheesecake, you got dizzy and the whole world is freaking out. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You even deciphered an ASF shortcut during the exposé. No one expected that from you. And what's left of it? For breeders - 1/4 farms eliminated. Over 200 ASF outbreaks in pigs, over 3,000. in wild boars. What about double payments? What about the hunting damages cases? What about the payments due to the drought? What about the national holding company? There isn't. [[Applause]] There's a national holding company, but it's for the Chinese, not the Poles. [[And it's paid off.]] Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, During your speech, you said there wouldn't be a good change now, my dears, but there would be a great change. I understand it's written on the basis of my own experience. Take, for example. Mr. Both. First he was a few thousand-dollar doorman, then he went to an agricultural agency, then he went to an energy company, and then he went to Orlen for probably 70,000. This is a great change for bother, for their own and only for their own. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: I for Poland.]] But that's not what we're proposing. You offer a great change for your own, we offer a new, better Poland. [[Applause]] [[Bure's voice.]] First of all, it's about rebuilding the national community. No more split into better and worse sort, real patriots and traitors. No more testicle, no more hate, no more severe disease that's got you. [[Exactly.]] Demographics... [[Voice from the room: Where's Bury?]] You're asking where Bury is. Sawicki says he's hunting raccoons. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[How are those gold bars?]] Worry about Mr. Chrzanowski because I read the press and she says he's not doing so well. Demographics - another challenge. One, the largest, good program 500+ is not enough to change the demographics of Poland. It has to be done every day... [[Voice from the hall: And in the evening too.]] ...and you have to complete the 500+ program and continue it. Parental leave, 1000 PLN, 500+ and an hour for the family. Remember, there are still seniors and there must be a tax-free pension. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] And clean and cheap energy. It's not just solving smoking problems. If it burns, then you put out the fires. Now you're looking for a way not to raise energy prices. You haven't thought about it for two or three months, but above all, you don't think about why. You have to bet on clean and cheap energy, not eliminate windmills... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...do not prohibit prosumer energy, do not prohibit this energy which is available in Poland. And you bring in coal from the east. Finally, Prime Minister... [[Voice from the room: Lucky for you.]] ... You said Wednesday to sprinkle your heads with ashes so the opposition would sprinkle their heads with ashes. [[Voice from the room: Retirement age.]] First of all, it is worth a start on such evangelical messages. I recommend it. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] And when it comes to ashes, it's the ash that you leave behind, as the Phoenix will be reborn Poland, the new Poland, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Poland friendly, Poland just, Poland truly united. New, better... [[Voice from the hall: People.]] ... Poland will win. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: You pierced Grześek.]] [[Grzegorz didn't get up and thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u376	On behalf of the Poselski Club, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u377	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You saw the fire. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think there are a few candidates for the premiere on this side of the political scene. You've seen this. It is very difficult in five minutes, Prime Minister, to address all the incompetence of your government. However, I would like to start with one case that you've succeeded in. You've succeeded in becoming Prime Minister. Would anyone in Law and Justice last year predict that the banker, the person who pushed francs into people, the person who advised Prime Minister Tusk, the person who was the hero of the Owl and Friend tapes, [[Applause]] She offered to pay unfairly... I quote: one-off invoice. [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice.]] [[For Cuba, apologize!]] Yes. Nevertheless, you became Prime Minister, eliminating the beloved by PiS and his electorate Mrs Beata Szydło. I move on to evaluating your actions, particularly in those areas which are very important for modern society: democracy, freedom, economy, modernisation of the state, independence of the judiciary, social affairs, health care, education and the European Union. In all these cases, you've fallen. As far as democracy is concerned, all significant rankings show that we are losing. The OECD, the American Freedom House organization and the report of the National Federation of NGOs show a clear decline in democracy and political freedoms in Poland. For your own good, ladies and gentlemen, you need a well-functioning prosecution. [[Applause]] How else are you going to eliminate the black sheep or should we say black flocks from your own group? The list of scandals unfortunately extends: KNF, SKOK-i, Radom scandal, PCK, GetBack. You could trade it. All unexplained, hidden from the public... [[Voice from the room: Suski's scandal.]] ...covering the prosecution's actions towards something completely different. Poland falls in the rankings of economic freedom. The Wall Street Journal, Doing Business, unfortunately, is judging us negatively. Poles still don't make enough money. You're not doing anything about it. You're just picking up your own. The tax-free amount should have been raised by now. More than 30 new taxes and charges have been introduced and fuel and electricity will soon be consumed. Maybe it won't. No, it will. Prime Minister, will it be more expensive or less expensive? What's the announcement for today? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The strategy for responsible development has identified the problems well. That's one thing you did right. But what's next? Unfortunately, it remained only a paper collection of good-looking slides. A few examples. Investment rate compared to GDP at the lowest in 20 years. The construction of a big ferry in the yard stands. You promised electric cars, evidence in cells, submarines. You promised all this, there's nothing out of it. Modernization of the Polish army - one of the most important areas. Mr Błaszczak never once appeared at our committee meeting. You stopped the acquisition of new equipment launched by the Civic Platform with PSL. Where are those helicopters Mr Macierewicz promised? Where are the submarines? There isn't. They're bought from the army budget for VIP planes. [[Who's got VIP planes?]] Unfortunately, in breach of the law, as confirmed by the National Board of Appeal. I don't know if you've read the statement by General Mirosław Różański, from Lubuski, the former general commander, who knows what he's saying. [[Voice from the room: And patriots.]] And patriots. It says this: in the event of a possible confrontation with the Eastern neighbours, we stand in a lost position, we are defenseless as a baby. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Eight years. You should have armed Poland. Eight years.]] [[Voice from the room: You shouldn't have destroyed it.]] You have been chosen to improve your relations with the European Union. I'm afraid you've fallen all over the line. We are the first country to be dealt with in Article. 7. You say alien creation. No, Prime Minister. The European Union is our creation, this is our community. [[Applause]] We fear that polyxit will unfortunately become a fact. Finally, it's a social thing. Here we were counting on the PiS most, hoping that you would actually lean on it. $270,000. Poles still have a starving pension and live for less than 900 PLN. You promised to fight violence against women, and you didn't even implement the anti-violence convention. [[Applause]] You could exchange it for a long time. Smog kills Poles and the government continues its coal policy. We therefore support Grzegorz Schetin's request to express a vote of distrust to the Council of Ministers led by Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] I understand the outcome of today's vote, I do not lose hope and believe that there will be one broad, strong opposition block composed of PO, PSL, the Union of European Democrats, SLD, the Polish and Modern Initiative, and perhaps other parties. A block that will win in future elections. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u378	Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr.Grzegorz Schetyn today promised the Poles a paradise on earth in his speech. Our generation remembers your paradise very well from your reigns. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: A kilometer settles.]] [[Have you got your driver's license yet?]] This paradise looked like after graduation, ladies and gentlemen, my generation could at best go to work in London or Berlin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And the young Poles, when they wanted to worship Polish independence on 11 November, were beaten and kicked by the police. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[What are you talking about?]] This was the paradise of the Civic Platform, that's the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Sit down, fascist.]] [[Driver's license.]] But you also forgot the economic facts, ladies and gentlemen, what Poland looked like during your reigns, because not by words, but by actions we will know you. Ladies and gentlemen! In your day, the minimum wage in Poland was PLN 1200, and today it is PLN 2250. 1,200 PLN at the beginning of your reign, that is the truth. [[Applause]] [[You're lying.]] Unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, was up to 13%, and today is 5%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? That's what your government looked like. You're also leaning on the fate of poor pensioners, so, leaning on their fate, then why did you have them working until they were 67? [[Give me the money back from the mileage.]] And the lowest pension in Poland was PLN 700 for your governments. You cared so much about pensioners in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Economic development, ladies and gentlemen. Today's economic development, GDP growth is at 5% The economy is growing, and in your governments, only one and a half percent could grow forward. [[Voice from the room: One and a half percent.]] [[Voice from the room: Speak in Polish.]] So don't tell me how to manage the Polish economy, because you have no competence for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[This is the Polish Sejm. Speak Polish.]] Finally, I didn't plan this, but let me tell you this: I listen to your bullshit and lies very politely when I sit there, in the Parliamentary benches, and I really recommend that you consult, at least take a little lesson from Savoir-vivre. Since there are Members of the Republic here, it is your duty to listen to these Members, because even if you do not respect us, respect the citizens who want to listen calmly to this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause, joy in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u380	Mr Jarosław Porwich, also near Free and Solidarni, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u381	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The world of Europeans with a great, huge culture! I'm going to address you mostly. Because listening to the representative of Mr Schetin's applicants, it was possible to get the impression that Poland was a land of milk and honey under the Civic Platform. You said we'd make it, we'd make it, we'd build it. And as you built it, you realized it, everyone remembers it perfectly. You said, Mr Schetyna, that you would address all kinds of solutions to the workers, to the nurses, and that there were still no miners to whom you shot, we remind you, yes. You and Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish addressed all these workers and farmers. e.g. increasing the retirement age. We remember. [[Game in the hall, applause]] I say this, I say what I think, I say this: I am the government of the Civic Platform, you, the light Europeans, I associate with one - with the anti-social, anti-democratic actions and, as a man of solidarity, I will tell you, anti-union. [[Voice from the hall: Anti-Polish must be said.]] What do I know of you, dear Platform? Today you have a mouth full of clichés, making big promises. Let me put it this way: like I'm listening to Game or his kind. [[Voice from the room: Gomelki.]] [[That's where he's sitting.]] I associate you with arrogance, boot, cynicism and hypocrisy. [[Applause]] What are you perfect at, dear? I'm sure you, as a Platform, are perfect, although the Modern is just like you... [[That's where I agree.]] Mr. Nitras, take it easy, I know you have a problem, but still... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm your problem.]] You're my problem, yes. That's for sure. You are really perfect in milking Poland, we remember perfectly. You are perfect in reporting through you and your representatives to Poland and in voting against Poland, which has been repeatedly proven in the European Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Let me put it this way: you can promise as much as you want, no one will believe you, because Poles have found out on their own what you really are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[In your name, there's no one even speaking anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u382	Thank you. Now, Mr Richard Petru, on behalf of... [[Together!]] ...wheels Now! [[Voice from the room: Not now!]] [[Voice from the room: Later!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u383	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You promised the Central Communication Port between Łódź and Warsaw, the expansion of the airport in Radom, 100,000. apartments under the program Apartment+, million electric cars, excavation of Vistula mine. [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] You know very well that these were never serious proposals. You know that it's easy to stick a shovel, lay a keel, it's easy to come to Radom and show a mock-up, it's harder to make it happen. You know very well that most of these promised investments will never arise. Listen up, guys. You know how many apartments you've built instead of 100,000.? 480. Instead of a million electric cars, there are 439 of them. VAT. Next year, VAT revenues increase by 7%, as much as nominal GDP. There are no effects of fighting the VAT mob. There are still VAT carousels, VAT mobs are still out there. And the future parliament will quietly be able to charge you with the same accusations you made to your predecessors: that with too little zeal you fought with the VAT mobs that your slowed-down actions made them sluggish. The same charge that your prosecution has made to Wojciech Kwaśniak, it will be possible to make any one of you. [[The first one will be Horala.]] You know very well that VAT and mafia carousels are still in Poland. Prime Minister! It was the worst three years in the history of the Republic of Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The worst in our presence in Europe... [[Voice from the O.R.: The best.]] ...because the certainty of our membership has been compromised. The worst for our young democracy, because since communism no government has so much weakened the democratic rule of law. [[Applause]] The worst part about media independence. Never before since communism has one party corrupted public media as much as your governments. [[For you, too.]] Your governments have been the first in 70 years to so much increase the share of the state in the economy. I understand that you, as a young boy, wanted a queue and now bought yourself a cable car in Zakopane for millions of dollars. [[Applause]] Public debt has increased by PLN 100 billion in your governments. Do you have any idea how long court cases last as a result of your changes? 30 days. The worst part is that the person who sits behind you has control of all of this - you know very well that she should be dismissed long ago - and she does not wish you well. For the first time in your reign, government officials submitted a corrupt proposal to Polish entrepreneurs. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] You're the ones who introduced the 500+ program, calling it demographic. What's the effect? It was born at 10,000. Less children. Look, you're hypocrites. You can't afford to fund the birth of your first child, but you can afford to give it to the second, third and fourth rich, that's your show. Ladies and gentlemen, you weren't supposed to raise your taxes. You've introduced a solidarity tribute, a tax, a rain charge, a power charge. It's easy to tell and lie, but you raise taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, you say you will support Polish entrepreneurship, and you slaughter Polish shops by banning trade. [[Voice from the hall: What Polish?]] You slaughter Polish shops, yes, because foreign can sell through e-commerce. You don't know what's going on, but there's something like that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You promised energy security and the fight against smog. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you fight smog by betting on coal? At this point, you should stop all carbon investments, all carbon investments -- move away from coal and stop all investments in new coal-based energy blocks. [[Do you know where the electricity comes from? Out of the nest.]] In foreign policy, you promised to improve your relations with the European Union, but actions are more important than declarations. Why didn't you cut yourself off from Minister Ziobra, who questioned the European Treaty? Keeping Mr Ziobra in government is a signal for those who believe that Poland should leave the European Union. [[The voice from the room: You're in pain.]] And at the end of the scandal, your financial system inside the KNF. As Prime Minister, you were responsible for the Financial Supervision Committee. Decentness and responsibility would require you to explain yourself to the Poles from the KNF scandal. It was your department that created the first regulations that hit Leszek Czarnecki's banks. [[Oh...]] You're acting like corruption is normal. The best summary of your governments is that you arrest conscientious officials for wanting to deal with criminals, and you give corrupt officials two weeks to cover your tracks. These are your governments. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! It's easy to lie, it's much harder to follow these lies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're out.]] [[Oh, Rysiek, Rysiek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u384	Mr Jakub Kulesz will now speak on behalf of the Circle of Members of Freedom and Effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I will start with the text of the best Polish rock musician, absent from Kazik Staszewski's room today. [[Voice from the room: Kukiza.]] [[Don't run away, Fame. Don't be afraid.]] Since the fall of the commune, bureaucracy has grown three times with the difference that two parties, the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice, instead of one party, fill the post. You all deserve a vote of distrust today. He doesn't differ from each other at all. First of all, taxes. Despite the promises, the Government of Law and Justice maintained the increase in VAT to 23% by the Civic Platform. Moreover, despite his promises, he has increased further taxes and donations in the number of more than 30. Secondly, you hate entrepreneurs, you hate them for hard and honest work, for building private, government-independent Polish capital. Law and Justice, as previously done by the Civic Platform, torments entrepreneurs with taxes, both bullshit regulations and clinging to even the slightest triviality by officials. What did the mechanic in Bartoszyc do to you? After all, these activities of the IRS are in exactly the same style as the Vice Minister Kapic of the Civic Platform government did, as you criticized. Third, you've got your backs behind your ears, huge scandals. The Civic Platform had its own Amber Gold thing, a wiretap thing... [[Morawiecki was wearing a wire, too.]] ... Law and Justice has a corruption issue in KNF, the GetBack scandal, well, you're also reminded The eavesdropping of the prime minister who talked about working for a bowl of rice and getting the jobs for who needs to be. Fourthly, you have hypocrisy and a shoe in front of your citizens. From PO-PiS politicians we hear all the time about listening to Poles and Poles, about public consultation, and the truth is that PiS pushes laws through the Sejm within 1 day without any public debate. As if this were not enough, the politicians of the Civic Platform, the newly elected President Trzaskowski, withdrew the 98-percent increase that was just adopted during the electoral campaign to apply for the conversion of perpetual use, explaining it simply that he had to obtain more money from the taxpayer's pocket. Unfortunately, this is how PO-PiS respects its voters. Fifthly, foreign policy is being pursued by states on their knees. The platform kneeled before Berlin and in front of Brussels, and the state, instead of getting up and proudly straighten out, kneel to its knees consecutively before Israel, Washington, as an example was the withdrawal within 7, 8 hours, with its head down, from the IPN law that you proposed. Law and Justice and the Civic Platform pretend that they stand on two sides of the barricade and that they represent two different visions of the state, but referring again to the words of Kazik: basically this is one formation overly parasitic/such two sides of one flag so here I usually charge. PiS and PO - one evil, Poles need freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Poles need freedom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u386	Mr Robert Majka will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Mr Schetyna! Let me put it this way: I'm shocked, it's what you're talking about. I will remind you of the words of Grzegorz Braun, who among others. He said... [[I insinuate that Deputy Prime Minister Schetyna is not some agent, not some snitch, I insinuate that he's an officer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u388	Sir, but... [[But it can't be played, supposedly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u389	You don't like it because Grzegorz Braun is telling the truth. That's why I in this bleacher demand... [[What's he saying? I can't hear anything.]] ...to reveal the past of Grzegorz Schetin to reveal Donald Tusk's past. Enough government agents in Poland. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u390	Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He wanted to see you.]] [[Keep your voice down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister! High Izbo! The National Movement, which is no secret, is critical of the three years of PiS rule, but we are honest in this criticism. I mean, we admit that there are things that have worked out for the government. Unfortunately, these are only three important things. The first important thing, with reservations, is 500+, the second important thing is VAT sealing and the third important thing is a gentle ventilation in the army. Three important things for three years. However, we are talking about the years in which Prime Minister Szydło ruled, because the last year, the year of Prime Minister Morawiecki, is only [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's propaganda, pure propaganda. Maybe not even so clean, because it's managed from the hive. Woronicza, which is ul. Woronicz, unfortunately, even helped Trzaskowski to win the first round in Warsaw with the primitiveism of his propaganda. [[Joy in the Chamber]] They cut this propaganda so well. 3 years, full power, no coalition, president, public media, tribunals, banks, services, unlimited resources and only three positive changes. Dramatically little. Therefore, in the slogan "good change," the greatest lie is the word "change." Well, change is for a cure. There's a lot of staff movements and a lot of media foaming. Instead of reforming failing institutions, you're massively filling them with your own, just to pull as much money as possible. Which is particularly perfidious, very small and often dirty business to rob the God-fathered clichés. That's why your time is slow, but consistently, endlessly. Your governments meet with increasing disgust and discord not only among the left and liberals, but also among the increasing number of people with conservative, Catholic, patriotic, and independence views. Gradually, but relentlessly, the time is coming for real change. It's time for the new right hand - the national right hand. A right that will effectively reform you by improving and simplifying the operation of individual services, administrations, by eliminating unnecessary offices and posts. A right that will put the interests of the Polish worker above the interests of those who want to maintain the Polish economy in poor condition as an undeveloped economy based on cheap labour. It takes a national right to say: stop immigration, stop flooding Poland with cheap labour from Ukraine and Asia. The right hand, which will put Poles back into their homeland, will be placed on a nation safe, culturally and ethnically consistent. We need this movement and we are building a political movement that will not kneel before Israel about the IPN Act, the Union on the courts or the US embassy on withholding tax. The kind of movement that will not be in international relations acting like a drunken warrior, mindlessly flexing his muscles to capitulate on the whole line with his tail, because that's what your foreign policy is. We need this movement and we are building a political movement that will lead foreign policy more calm in form but at the same time more firm in content. Finally, Poland needs a right hand that speaks clearly for life: stop abortion instead of lying and cheating voters on this matter. Poland needs the political movement we are building, a government which, instead of juggling with the names of schools, will really reform education, restore education, discipline and traditional values, which will give parents control, give educational vouchers, which will open wide to Poles the possibility of setting up small, good, conservative schools instead of today's centralism and destroying domestic education. We are building a political force that will stand firm on the basis of Christian values, but at the same time one that will not turn a blind eye to the sins of the people of the Church in the name of political dealers, because it simply does not agree. We need a government that will really address the energy policy that will deliver the climate package of the European Union, because it is it that causes price increases and drains the budget today. The need for a right hand that hardens the rights of Poles in Kresa, Lithuania - not at the expense of agreements, not by making deals with Lithuania at the expense of Poles in Lithuania and breaking the political unity of Poles in Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine. He'll deny the rights of the Polish people in the West. Finally, the right hand, who will have the courage to clearly say to the flagship, which you have not done for three years. We are building a political force that will really end the preference of global companies at the expense of Polish companies, which will simplify procedures, stabilise economic law and change the attitude of civil servants towards entrepreneurs. It takes a right hand to combine ideology with pragmatism. Quiet in form, but firm in content. A modern right hand that will leave literature romanticism, driven by national interests, not sentiments. Finally, a right hand that will really carry out and complete the decommunization that you perform inefficiently, in episodes, retreating every moment. You can't even write the bill correctly. The need for a national right, which will be the hope of the right Poles after the no-ideal and ineffective PiS rule has finally fallen. That's the kind of political movement we build. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u392	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank you very much for this vote of confidence from two days ago. It's very important to me, building a ticket, [[Applause]] To... [[Voice from the room: Distrust.]] ...to further reform Poland. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much to all of you who voted. It is also a guarantee that our reforms, our changes will continue. I will therefore say very briefly today that I am proud that we have been able to rebuild the elementary culpability, the efficiency of the institutions of the state, which previously, in your times, did not work. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: KNF! KNF! KNF!]] The symbol of this is what happened in the area of tax collection. [[Stopping the Quadruple.]] In fact, it is enough to trace the main posts. All you have to do is look at how much you've been collecting VAT in the last eight years, how much trouble you've done there and what we've done in our day. [[Big manipulation, big manipulation.]] Thanks to this, I can also say that we have led to what will be symbolized in a moment's time by the November data. The surplus in the budget in November, which was never before in 30 years. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Secondly, we rebuilt historical and historical justice, we honored the real Polish heroes. [[Peterovich.]] That's why it is so sad that on December 13th, exactly, I found out, being in Brussels - they could not be surprised by the prime ministers of foreign countries, other countries - that it happened that you are now returning, you are glad, at least some of your representatives, that the names of the streets: Anna Valentynowicz, Lech Kaczyński, Zbigniew Herbert, the Committee for the Defence of Workers or the miners from the mine [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] ... part will be replaced, the names of the communists will be restored. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] This is what, unfortunately, has led to a lack of reform... [[Some Members chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]] ...the dimension of justice for the past 30 years. That is why we will, of course, continue to reform the justice system. [[Who's we?]] The third thing is to restore basic social justice, and this is very much said. This is our social program, a pro-popular program, prodemographic program, not just 500+ of course... [[Voice from the hall: the Bear.]] ...senior programmes, 75+, about PLN 50 billion per year we spend more on all these programs. Finally, fourthly, restoring the steering of foreign policy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because today, our foreign policy is actually based on... [[You didn't understand, really.]] ...Polish national interest, Polish state interest. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The common denominator of all our actions is something very simple: credibility. We promised a lower retirement age. Did we? [[Yeah, bravo!]] We kept it. [[Applause]] Even here, some people nod. Ladies and gentlemen! We promised 500+ for every other kid and every other kid? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Will you help?]] We kept it. We kept our word. [[Applause]] [[A lie, a lie.]] Similarly, we keep our word in all other actions. Self-government Road Fund - five, six times the size of your time. Did we keep our word? We kept it. [[Applause]] [[We kept it.]] In a moment, from January, a new, great program of renovations, construction of new roads and yes, also what hurts you, a program of building new bridges. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Pomerania.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's your credibility? Here we must refer to an example that has already fallen out of this podium today, because that the Civic Platform will have the audacity to break the electoral promises a few weeks after the local elections, no one expected. Today you have shown that your credibility is worth zero. [[Applause]] [[Zero, less than zero.]] Or less than zero. One of my favorite bands, Lady Pank, sang this song, less than zero. That's what your credibility is worth. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Perpetual use. Just a few days before the local elections, your candidate, your councillors promised Warsaw that he would be with a 98% discount. Exactly now you've turned it around. You tricked the voters right now. Your credibility is worthless. [[Applause]] [[Liars!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] And credibility in politics is crucial. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's why our keeping our word hurts so much. These five that we announced in April, see: 300+ - realized, small economic activity, lower ZUS - realized, CIT lowest in Europe - completed? Realized. [[Applause]] [[A bowl of rice.]] Availability+? The show's going on. The Self-Government Road Fund. Is there a bill in place? [[Voices from the O.R.:]] It's being implemented. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: It is complex.]] That's credibility. It was promised in April. It's December - and it's done. In October, you promised the voters. You fooled the voters already in December. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Liars.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you lying about?]] But there's another feature of good politics. This is a certain ideology, because politics is a dispute. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Dispute is the salt of politics. It's normal. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] But behind our program... [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice.]] In general, this program, extended, multifaceted, shows it, consults it with society, and you can come out here - I've been waiting for this program, listening with attention - you can come out here and just throw lies and invectives. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] So we're waiting for this program because politics is a dispute for programs. Our show... [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice for everyone.]] I am just returning from the European Council here straight to this meeting. Honestly, I didn't know I was gonna quote "Gazeta Wyborcza." I liked it. [[No!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...there is indeed the introduction of Poles to Europe once again. [[But we're in this Europe.]] Not only the introduction of the Polish state into the European Union, but in a real way raising the standard of life of Poles to the European level. [[Applause]] That's what we do. Through our social policy, through our development policy, economic policy, higher wages, higher wages. This is a law and justice program. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: They only have a TV show.]] And we're gonna do this program. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Some Members get up, clap and chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew!]] [[Some Members chant: KNF! KNF! KNF!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u394	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this matter after the break at noon. 22.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 24 hours 22 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. The group of Members submitted a proposal to appoint a member of the committee on the reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate, in print No 3109. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and paragraph 1. 9 (1) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I inform the High House that the Senate adopted without amendment the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. As a result, the planned item on the 25th agenda has become pointless. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Council of Ministers led by the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the election of Mr Grzegorz Schetin as President of the Council of Ministers. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] The application is printer 3069. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point 158 (a) (ii) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm express the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request to express a vote of distrust to the Council of Ministers led by the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the election of Mr Grzegorz Schetin to the President of the Council of Ministers, raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the court: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Me.]] 416 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 163 voted against - 233 Members, with 20 abstentions. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew!]] [[Some Members chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]] In the absence of obtaining the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion for a vote of distrust... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ... The Council of Ministers led by the President of the Council of Ministers... [[Voice from the hall: But where are the flowers?]] ... Mateusz Morawiecki and the election of Mr Grzegorz Schetin as President of the Council of Ministers. [[Voice from the room: Jarek! Jarek!]] We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Appointment of a member of the committee on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate (print No 3109). High Seym! Following the resignation of Mr Paweł Rabiej as a member of the Warsaw Real Estate Reprivatisation Board, there was a need to appoint a new member. A group of Members of the Posel Club, the Posel Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats and the non-attached Member have nominated Mr Sławomir Potapowicz. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski to present Mr Sławomir Potapowicz's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u395	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the figure of Mr Sławomir Potapowicz, who is a candidate for a member of the Warsaw real estate reprivatization committee. Shortly, because I know it's been a long day. Mr Sławomir Potapowicz has many years of local government experience. He was among others. Councilman of the Sejm, and is currently councilman of the M.S. Warsaw. He worked at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and was also the President of the Foundation for Self-Government and Democracy, where he worked among others. Real estate management. I'll tell you, I've known Mr. Potapovich for three years, he's never let me down, he's a very good organizer, he's very meticulous about his duties. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] to vote in favour of this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u396	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the candidacy? I can't see, I can't hear. There's no discussion. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Sejm, based on art. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoints members of the committee on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate by an absolute majority. [[Voice from the O.R.: One more time.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the appointment of Mr Sławomir Potapowicz as a member of the committee on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. The vote was 399 against 8 and six Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Sławomir Potapovich as a member of the committee. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 74th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you would like to join us, go ahead. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 52 hours 22 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, merry Christmas.]] Merry Christmas, gentlemen. Mr Anczynski is not here. It is, I'm sorry. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u397	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 8 December, Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, longtime parliamentarians, a person with a great heart, always sensitive to the needs of the weakest and the neediest, left us. With her life, Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska has proved that she has gained respect and trust through faithfulness to her views and beliefs. During difficult years of communism and military yunts, General Jaruzelski acted in the Solidarity Region, creating a union structure in the Provincial Hospital of Słupsk, where she worked as a nurse, serving and helping the sick. These were difficult times for all independence activists. In their work and social life, they experienced a young nurse. Several times beaten, deprived of work and income sources remained faithful to the idea of Solidarity and acted in the underground. I met Jolanta Szczypińska as a man of great faith and love for our homeland, Poland. Extremely involved in the work of the Board of Gdynia-Słupski, and then the post office in which I have the pleasure to work. She didn't slow down for the period of her illness. She kept thinking about what was going to happen to us, preparing a local campaign in our region. The time of sickness and suffering suffered with dignity, without a word of opposition, patiently enduring pain. The death of the Member is a big blow to the Polish Sejm. A well-respected, well-liked Member has left with great experience both in life and in Parliament. The premature death of the Member is a very big loss for the Pomeranian Voivodeship, district 26 - Słupsk. The chairman of the board has left, who has been able to run our region perfectly with her authority. We learned a lot from her, cultural discussion, peace. She didn't give in to unnecessary emotions. Unfortunately, this is what we all lack in this House. As Member of the District 26 and Vice-President of the Management Board of Słupsk District, on behalf of myself, members of the Management Board of the District, members of the Territorial Committee of the Law and Justice in Chojnice from this place, I pay tribute to my late colleague. Jol, we're gonna miss you so much. Give her eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. [[Members: Amen.]] Hello to her memory. [[Hello to her memory.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u398	Thank you. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have suffered a great loss in connection with the death of Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska. We know that the loss was not only our political environment, but also the whole of Poland. Jolanta Szczypińska was an oppositionist, her commitment to resisting the totalitarian regime dates back to the 1970s, when she was a colporteur of the second circulation press, so-called. Papers. Small, delicate, yet strong to resist the communist regime. She formed the structures of the NSZZ.Solidarity in the Voivodeship Hospital Complex in Słupsk, and later, in the early 1990s she was associated with the Agreement of the Centre, co-created a party of Lech and Jarosław Kaczyński Law and Justice. The Pomerania Society particularly appreciated Jolanta Szczypinska, five times entrusted her with a parliamentary mandate, which she fulfilled modestly, without a loud shell, but very conscientiously. She was active almost to the last moments of her life. She was one of the most reliable Polish politicians. She was a tough politician, but always warm and sensitive. And that will remain in our memory. Hello to her memory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u400	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Another year in a row I am amending the national budget for the allocation of funds for the extension of Shadółka's node on the Tricity ring road in the current trail of the S6 road. The inhabitants of both Gdansk and the whole Pomerania need to expand this node. It is part of a high-speed road managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, which is why it is the government's responsibility to expand it. Therefore, I ask Members, especially those of the ruling PiS - because you have a majority in parliament and you can vote out what you want - to support my amendment to the budget granting money to the modern Shadółka node, which will allow you to uncork both the southern districts of Gdańsk and the Tricity ring road. The inhabitants of Gdansk and other users of the Tricity ring road stand in gigantic car traffic every day through this undersized collision node of Szadółka. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The present arrangement of the node also poses a threat to human life and health due to very poor visibility. The Gdańsk branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways itself stated in its opinion that only the extension of this junction is a solution to the current situation. Last year and in previous years, PiS Members, even those from Pomerania, did not support - they rejected - my budget proposal granting funds for the extension of Shadółka's node. This is done to the detriment of the inhabitants. I hope that in the end this year, the PiS Members will accept this amendment and in 2, 3 years' time the nightmare of drivers will be over. Please support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 December, Mrs Stanisława Grabowska-Wądołowska died in Pile. For her patriotic attitude, she was tortured by officials of the District Public Security Office in Łomża. Communist courts sentenced her to 8 years imprisonment in prisons in Bialystok and Bydgoszcz in total for nearly 4 years. In March 2018, she was honoured by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda with the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. She was the sister of the enchanted soldiers of faith and Visa. She was 94 years old. Funeral celebrations will be held on Saturday, December 15th. About an hour. 12 will be celebrated in the church of St. Anthony in Pile Holy Mass, then there will be a farewell at the communal cemetery in Pile at ul. Butterfly. Hello to her memory. Praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, the development of black scenarios for numerous members and observers of our political scene in recent weeks regarding the planned withdrawal from the European Union has been exaggerated for the past municipal campaign. The artificially created concept of polexit does not serve anyone, and it is simply populism used thoughtlessly by the opposition, abused by the media. Really judging the situation, the ruling party is firmly on the ground and is very aware of all the benefits of the European Union. The modernization leap of the last 15 years, which we owe to EU funds, is tangiblely visible in every corner of the country. Poles live better and easier. It's hard to deny. Knowing that we remain citizens of the European Union makes us feel secure, but also proud. No governing camp wants such values and is not able to lose them, but, on the contrary, the rulers are primarily concerned with creating the best living conditions in our country. The European Union is one of the guarantors of this state of affairs. If there are discrepancies e.g. I am convinced that, after long and difficult negotiations, the parties will reach consensus. Neither does the Union itself have a single position on any matter, and the Union is also changing and transforming. This process will continue. Europe has known Poland since the fall of communism, appreciates the scale of civilization development of our country and the efforts that Poland is making to be a member of the European family. On the other hand, it is not in Polish interest to escalate the conflict with the Union at any level. Everyone cares about maintaining at least in this form Polish-EU relations. It is interesting that the opposition is trying to convince Poles that the rulers do not see the long-term consequences of Poland's exit from the Union. The example of the UK has clearly shown how painful this chapter is and how harmful it is for the British themselves, but who live in a much richer country than Poland. So let us not get carried away with this imaginary, polexit propaganda. Let us enjoy the euro funds, motorways built, direct payments to farmers, Poland's participation in the European economic market, the free movement of goods to our neighbours, constantly growing exports, the absence of non-duty barriers, etc. Being a member of the Podlaskie voivodship, having frequent contact due to the function performed with representatives of the Belarusian or Lithuanian sides, I am perfectly aware of the differences between the remaining Lithuanian Union and the European family of Belarus in terms of progress not only of civilization but also of mental and cultural progress. The deepening of regional cooperation in our part of Poland with Lithuania and Belarus would lead to a significant increase in tourist, trade and economic dynamics over time. Opening of additional border crossing points, e.g. in Chvorościany or Lipszczany, it would facilitate the daily functioning of local communities. The presence of the Republic of Poland in the European Union is not only a great policy and great interests, but above all the ordinary affairs of ordinary people who want to live prosperously and safely in their small homelands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-sejm-74-3.u406	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 74th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 75th session of the Sejm, convened on 16, 17 and 18 January 2019, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 08]]
