ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u1	Resume session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats and keep your conversation quiet. We begin to consider item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. I would like to warmly welcome the guests present at the meeting. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. Hello, Mrs Halina Kurpińska, President of the Eastern Golgotha Foundation, welcome very warmly. [[Applause]] Hello, Mrs. Anna Felicia Rastawicka, member of the Board of the Eastern Golgota Foundation. [[Applause]] Welcome very cordially to Mrs Krystyna Krzyszkowiak, the daughter of an officer killed in Katyn. [[Applause]] I warmly welcome Mr Wiesław Wysocki, Professor of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. [[Applause]] Hello, Mr Władysław Richard Szeląg, President of the Historical Society of the name Szembek, I welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Hello, Mrs. Beata Wójtowicz, Director of Primary School No. 4 Fr. Zdzisława Jastrzębiec-Peszkowskiego in Sanok. [[Applause]] And hello, Mrs. Krystyna Hachniec, Chief of the Sanotian Land Huf. Fr. hm. Zdzisław Peszkowski. [[Applause]] I cordially welcome you and thank you for accepting the invitation. I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No. 941, and the committee's report In print No 941 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I have great pleasure and honour to read you this draft resolution, which is here before me, entitled: on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. But as usual, before I read the draft resolution, I'd like to say a few words. First of all, I would like to point out the person who is the principal initiator of this resolution, the idealist who made sure that Prof. Jan Żaryn did not forget the important anniversaries. This is Senator Alicia the Hare. It's her initiative. Go ahead, you can clap. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] Of course, thank you very much, senator, for reminding me of such an important and beautiful figure. A reminder of the character Fr. Peszkowski is extremely important from our senate perspective. Because, on the one hand, we are the House, which would like to be part of the current historical policy pursued by the Polish government, and on the other hand, we are the House which specially supports Polonia, dealing with it, that is, this very complicated world historically, conditioned no less than our lives within Poland. And one of the people who was guarding the welfare of Polonia was Fr. Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski, and without a doubt honoring this character is especially important to us. The second obvious context we know about is that the life of Fr. Peszkowski for himself was associated with this terrible place where he was staying, with the camp in Kozielsk. For him staying there miraculously ended well, but for others staying there ended tragically in Katyn. And this memory of this, however strange it sounds, of a certain injustice that met him, because he survived, and others, his friends did not, caused the entire life to be largely sacrificed to redeem this injustice as though it were not his fault. This is the commitment he had in himself, a commitment that can be written down into a lot of beautiful sentences that, I hope, will still fall here. These sentences sound, on the one hand, in such a way that the life of Fr. Zdzisława Peszkowski is a range of efforts to commemorate all victims of communist crime, exceptional crime, genocide... According to the definition of genocide, Professor Lemkin does not have a higher category of crime than genocide and today the international law within which we live is European, resulting from Greek, Roman and Christian civilization, does not know the crime set in the hierarchy higher than genocide. The memory that Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski, will sound, of course, in this resolution, but what is our dream as Poles, and it must be said... We are concerned about the fate of the remains of Polish heroes, representatives of the Polish nation, which are located outside the country. This memory never ends, also in free, independent Poland we have commitments to these people and to these places. Among many sentences, the opinions I read, resulting from the life story of Fr. Peszkowski, also coming from him, is worth considering the opinion which he said, namely whether human remains from all these places, from Katynia beginning to Bykownia, should be here, in Poland, together with us, whether they should be there, now on a deep part, far from our border gates. This is a very important problem especially in the case of the Soviet lands, which did not belong to the Second Republic, because if our closest ones lie within the borders of the Second Republic, it is clear that this Polishness in the graves is visible, but when the genocide was committed on Poles who did not want to find themselves... Should their remains be in Poland or not? This is a dilemma and this is a question I am suspending because I am not worthy to continue the mission of Fr. Zdzisława Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. This is also a question to us, to the Senate, especially to today's majority, which has tools when it comes to the Polish government to pursue this Polish historical policy. The answer is not simple, it is not easy. No doubt today we want to raise our neighbours, the Russians, so that they too remember that there, on their land, there was this criminal ideology that led to genocide. But we do not think that anyone should level the former concentration camp KL Dachau just because it is under the beautiful city of Munich, which, of course, let tourists visit, but with the memory of what Nazism did on German soil, it is also to be a sign. So this resolution is a step along the way... We are in the way of commemorating important people, important events and the Senate also wants to mark its presence in this way, with the utmost memory of the fact that the road does not end and will undoubtedly continue to be sent by good deeds, Polish in the name of truth, memory and this very historical policy, which the Government of Law and Justice runs. I hope that the voices of other senators will be heard here too, because how many of us have personally met Fr. Peszkowski. If you would like to give a witness, I think this is a good time and place to share this testimony with us. Now I will read the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. The Prelate priest Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski was born on 23 August 1918 in Sanok in a family of noble, devout and well-situated origins. He spent his childhood and youth in the city about which he wrote: "I never broke my memory of Sanok. Here he studied, was a member of the Sodalition Marianska and a Boy Scout, team and organizer of the athletic movement, a participant of numerous rallyings. For the rest of his life he wore a scouting cross, as a scout he was the Chief Chaplain of ZHP outside the country. After his graduation in September 1938, he began a close one-year service at the Cavalier Reserve School in Grudziądz. As a villain, he took part in the 1939 war, during which he and his entire unit were captured by the Soviets. Finally, he was in Kozielsk with nearly 5 thousand Polish Army officers. From April to May 1940, his fellow prisoners were transported to Katyn, where they were shot in the back of the head. The last transport, 250 prisoners, including Zdzisław Peszkowski, was sent to the camp in Pawliszczew Bora on 12 May 1940 and then to Griazowiec. The prisoners regained their freedom on 25 August 1941, when under the Majaic Agreement Sikorski in Russia began to form an army under the command of General Władysław Anders. With the general's army, he went all the way through Persia and the Middle East, and then in 1943 he was ordered by the command to work with the youth who came out of the inhuman land. For her he organized schools, scouts, among others. in Palestine, then in Tanzania and India, until 1947. He remained in exile; studied at Oxford, and since 1950 at the Polish Seminary in Orchard Lake, USA, which graduated as a master of theology and then at American universities, as a result of which he obtained a PhD degree in philosophy. In 1954, he accepted priestly ordination and then lectured as a professor of the Orchard Lake seminary for many years. At the same time, he was involved in the patriotic-religious works of the American Polonia, among others. in 1966, as President of the Polish-American Historical Association. He was a member of the Polish Teachers' Association in America based in Chicago. For the period of the Polish People's Republic he was first in contact with selected persons in the country, among others. with his family in Sanok, as well as with writers Jan Dobrzeczyński or Jerzy Krzyszton, and after October 1956 he began to come personally as an American citizen. At least from 1954 until the end of the 1970s he remained in the interest of communist intelligence as a figured-out person, mainly due to the organisation of youth pilgrimages from Orchard Lake to Poland for 25 years. These were mostly pilgrimages to Jasna Góra. That's by the way. In October 1988 he first stood in Katyn over the graves of his loved ones murdered by the Soviet regime in the spring of 1940, where he celebrated Mass. and made a promise that he would not rest until there was a military cemetery and a sanctuary of Divine Mercy and Our Lady of Reconciliation. He initiated the construction of Polish cemeteries in Katyn, in Miednoje and in Kharkov as the president and founder of the Eastern Golgota Foundation. As his biographer wrote, he integrated generations of Poles in the name of God, Honor and Homeland. He also acted in an unconventional way: he was the initiator of the International Motorcycle Rally of Katyn; on his initiative 1995 and 2005 he was declared the Year of Katyn. He initiated numerous memorials and prayers for the victims of the Katyn crime, among others. working closely with Radio Maryja. He was an honorary citizen of many cities, including Sanoka. The universities awarded him the title of Dr. Honoris causa. On 26 January 2006, the Polish Sejm adopted a resolution supporting the candidacy of Fr. Washing. Zdzisław Peszkowski for the Nobel Peace Prize. In his apartment at St. Jana constantly welcomed guests, almost for the rest of his life he was active, driving around the country and staying among the Polish community. Many Poles still remember his slanted figure, covered with gray head and a smiling, forgiving personality. He died in Anina on 8 October 2007 in the opinion of sanctity. He was buried in the Temple of Divine Providence in Wilanów. Today, the Senate of the Republic of Poland resembles the figure of the deceased. Fr. Washing. Zdzisław Peszkowski, a man constantly uniting the country with emigration, remembering the history of Poland with the present and building relations between nations based on truth and reconciliation. We give him, as senators of the Republic of Poland, due honor, in his own words: 'As a witness, I ask only for truth, memory and justice.' The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much for listening to this draft resolution and I ask you, of course, to accept it and to keep it in mind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the representative of the applicants, and I would remind you that Senator Jan Żaryn is also the representative of the applicants. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Name of Fr. Washing. Zdzisława Peszkowski immediately recalls the tragedy of Katyn, Golgota of the East, as he called the murder of Polish officers by the Soviets in Katyn, Miednoje or Starobielsk. Alone miraculously saved from the camp in Kozielsk, soldier of Gen. Anders, Boy Scout, priest, great patriot, organizer of the American Polonia, as we have heard here, is mentioned in the resolution He never forgot his brothers who were brutally murdered with a shot to the back of the head. It was not until October 1988 that he could stand in Katyn for the first time, celebrate the Holy Mass over the graves of his murdered colleagues. He then promised that he would not rest until there was a military cemetery and a Sanctuary of Divine Mercy and Our Lady of Reconciliation. Not much to say that he kept his word, but for the rest of his life he became a witness to the memory of this terrible crime. He was literally Katyn's conscience, but he was also a spokesman for forgiveness and reconciliation, because, as he said, my life is a great amazement over the greatness and mercy of God. When I was a Member from Zagłębia 20 years ago, I invited Fr. Peszkowski several times to Sosnowiec, where at St. Joachima in Sosnowiec Zagórze is located the Katyn Cross and one of the oldest plates in Poland dedicated to Polish officers, including police officers, murdered in Katyn. By bringing Fr. Peszkowski to Warsaw or driving him away, I had the opportunity to talk to him and one thing that hit me was his gratitude. God for his salvation. He asked: If out of 22,000 interned officers only 432, how am I supposed to repay it, how am I supposed to put my life together, what's the point? On the one hand, his wound after the Katyn crime required healing, and on the other hand, the answer demanded the question of gratitude for his miraculous salvation. That's how I remembered this dilemma from his youth. As we said here, when he realized that his own forces, human ways would not reach spiritual peace, the grace of calling came. He realized that God wanted him to be a mediator between the painful people who experienced Katyn's drama, between the families who lost their fathers, sons, husbands, and the truth about this painful event. And to devote himself to this truth in 1954, when he was 36 years old, he was ordained priestly. Listening to Fr. Peszkowski, when I talked to him, I always felt that he had a beautiful life. This may seem unbelievable, because with such traumatic experiences one cannot preserve such a weather of spirit, humor, and above all stay away, in this case from the United States, so devoted to Poland, concerned about Poland, about the Church in Poland. Fr. Peszkowski, having American citizenship, in agreement with Primate Stefan Wyszyński, brought to his homeland from overseas clerics and young people with Polish roots, helped build churches, supported the care of monuments. He printed several books by Primate Wyszyński, which had to be smuggled to Poland. It's Fr. In the Millennium year Peszkowski printed and brought to his homeland several thousand copies of the Millennium Act of giving Poland into slavery to Mary for the freedom of the Church in Poland and in the world, which still hangs in many churches in our country. At the request of Primate Wyszynski, he organized the Millennium Celebrations in Chicago. Primate Wyszynski was supposed to be involved, but unfortunately the communist authorities did not issue him a passport. The most important event in his life is very shocking and touching. Since July 1991, he has been involved in these partial exhumations at the cemeteries in Kharkov and Mednoje, related to an investigation conducted by the Soviet Chief Prosecutor's Office. Although the presence of the priest was not foreseen during the exhumation at that time, the Prelate arrived from the United States and as a volunteer took part in this work. We remembered these shocking, touching pictures... He took in his hands every skull that was extracted, wrapped it in a stulch, blessed it and touched it with a rosary, specially consecrated, at his request, by John Paul. II. Every day during these exhumations, as Soviet soldiers also mention, began with prayer, and after the daily work of Fr. Peszkowski celebrated the Holy Mass at which Russian soldiers also came to his surprise. During prayer, our Father, all of them held hands. As the exhumation team later said, they could not imagine any further work without the presence of Fr. Peszkowski. Enough to say that one of the Russian officers converted after these meetings, after exhumation work. As he said, he could not come out of surprise that this priest did not remind them of anything and prayed with Russian soldiers over the remains of their murdered colleagues. This is described by Fr. Peszkowski in his book entitled "I saw the pits of death." It would be difficult to mention all the initiatives of Fr. Peszkowski to commemorate the Golgota of the East. Katyn's families and the International Motorcycle Rally Katyn is perhaps such the most famous initiatives, but the prominence of its activities is e.g. An annual ceremony for young people on 17 September in Warsaw at the Memorial of the Fallen and Murdered in the East or organized on its initiative on 5 March, i.e. on the anniversary of the decision of the Soviet Communist Party's Political Bureau to murder Polish officers, a conference on Katyn's crimes in the Sejm. It's Fr. Peszkowski has launched numerous competitions of knowledge about Katyn's crime, whose winners in the prize pilgrimage to the cemetery in Katyn. Finally, I would like to mention a very important reference to all the places connected with Katyn, which the Prelate called supperkeepers. This is what the Catholic Wieczernik called priest Peszkowski the Church of St. Joachima in Sosnowiec-Zagorze. Participating in our celebrations, lighting a nuke at the Katyn plaque and at the cross commemorating the places of the Soviet execution of Polish officers and police officers, Fr. Washing. Peszkowski said: worshiping the memory of Golgotha, you have to look at it all through the prism of the Upper Room, that is, through the prism of Christ the Resurrection, bringing peace and forgiveness. That's why I remembered the words he said in 2005: "What can I say more, I, Kozielsk prisoner, bearing memory and pain about you, all my murdered Brothers. In the name of God, I forgive! As a witness, all I ask for is truth, memory and justice! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I invite Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests, who have cared for good memory for years, as Pope Francis said, Fr. Washing. Zdzisława Peszkowski! I am already thinking about October 6 when there will be a Holy Mass and a conference at the Temple of Divine Providence. Thank you very much to my previous speakers. Mr. Senator Żaryn and Mr. Senator Ryszka For those touching thoughts. I would like to share my personal memories, reflections and testimony. On my website for many years, there have been two photos with the Prelate priest, who sort of draw a line. We had a great friendship. Friendship, which resulted from concern for Polish youth, about her good upbringing. We all know the Prelate as a person building the memory of the Eastern Golgotha, Katyn and other places. Kozielsk, where he was a prisoner of that time. And then General Anders was a scout instructor. He's the caretaker of the good guys. It is a phenomenon that General Anders, seeing numerous children and young people who came out with families from the Soviet Union, recommended that they organize scouts for them. In Palestine, books were printed, scouting crosses were struck. We have many souvenirs in Poland. Then the Middle East, Africa, India... But you'd have to start with Sanok, where the prelate priest wasn't only born, but also where he started his scouting. At the age of 10, on November 1, 1928, he made a Boy Scout's pledge. Before that, he was a good boy, then a team boy scout, finally a leader and a governor. The athletic course took place in the famous Górki Wielki with Alexander Kaminski himself, the creator of the athletic method. In 1933 he took part in a camp in Zetemiance near Skolego, and in 1935. At the anniversary of the ZHP in Spala. Warden Zbigniew Trylski in 1938 gave him the rank of sub-harcmaster. As it happens, my assistant was the grandson of Warden Trylski, Andrzej Siekanski, the son of the daughter of Warden Trylski. As it has been said here, the prelate priest wore a scouting cross on the casket. You could say that for the rest of his life he wore a Boy Scout's cross on his casket. Before the war he was also a listener of the School of the Cavalier Reserves in Grudziądz. The gene. Andersa was a lieutenant, and then a rottmaster in the 1st U.K. Regiment of Krekhowiecki. That's where he created the Boy Scout Club. And then through Iraq, Iran, India, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, then again Lebanon, Italy all the way to Britain... Since 1944, General Andres has only assigned him scouting duties. As a scout he went to Valivade, India, where he organized schools and scout teams in the Polish town. At that time he was bestowed on him as "the friend of Ryss. " Fr. Washing. hm. I met Zdzisław Peszkowski at the end of the 1980s when he was the chief chaplain of the Polish Scouts Association operating outside the country. This Polish Scouts Association operating outside the country, which was a tireless continuation of the pre-war ZHP tradition. The last pre-war president of ZHP, voivode of Silesia Michał Grażyński, moved the rope and this position of president during the war, in order to later renew with the surviving and members of the Supreme Authorities of the Polish Scouts Association in Great Britain. No one then, before 1939 or after 1945, said that as a voivode is president, this is a politicisation of Boy Scouts. But that's by the way. A lot to talk about this Polish Scouts Association operating outside the borders of the country, which still works today. We had a beautiful Polish reunion last week and we saw many bridesmaids and many bridesmaids in scout uniforms in the Seym Hall. They were, they are, they are, they are an important part of Polonia. I used to report a ZHP operating outside the country for the title of the Guardian of Remembrance. In the 1980s, contact with the Boy Scout conspiracy in the country was difficult. Then Fr. Peszkowski, but also Bishop Stephen Merry, who recently died, visited all places in the world, were still in motion, as someone said, on the suitcases. They had one suitcase with them, and the other one was packed, because when they came back, they were on their way. Fr. Peszkowski visited all the places where Polish Boy Scouts were. And he always talked about Tasmania, Argentina, Brazil, Australia. Until there weren't any words to tell it all. The first of those pictures I have on my website is taken at my house during a meeting of the head of illegal scouting. It was the '80s, and we had this scouting conspiracy at the time. And this concern for young people and this promotion of Katyn's memory was one thing. At that time, he was leading an upcoming change... Because it was 1988 or 1987, we already felt something was going to happen. So there were these conversations, after 1989 they took on an even bigger dimension. Talks with those who were in conspiracy, but also with this ZHP Poperelovsky, difficult. We kind of resented him for being too kind... But he was talking, translating, setting conditions, challenges, setting the necessary actions. When it turned out to be ineffective, he changed his M.O. a little bit, started dating teams, scouts, scouts. He spared no effort. He spared no effort. He was everywhere where it seemed he should have been, where he had to be reminded of Poland, to remind about Katyn and other places. Second photo, with Castel Gandolfo with John Paul II, from 1996, is taken after entrusting ZHR to Our Lady on Jasna Góra. But I especially remembered one of the numerous meetings in 2004, when, at the initiative of the president of the capital city of Warsaw, Lech Kaczyński, we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising for the first time. There were great celebrations, and the museum of the uprising was opened. As president of the ZHR, I was in charge of a part of this event at the time. And then Fr. Washing. Peszkowski at the national rally Boy Scouts suggested that scouts instead of watching say "watch out" and "sorry for God." And with such incredible power he spoke, spoke all these things, and gestured: "Watch and the sorrows of God. ' I took it, and I'm still talking to Boy Scouts and writing it. I guess some people are surprised to hear that. And God's blessings appear, and I always, as I write or say, have Fr. Washing. hm. Peszkowski, a very happy man who spoke to the Boy Scouts like this: Hey, young man, be fantastic! Be fantastic! Take up the challenge! Remember Andrzej Małkowski! Be great! Be fantastic! That's who he was. Maybe it was a little bit like Orchard Lake from the United States. It's such a joy, such openness. He built good, always tried to build good in everyone. I call it the economy of pedagogy. He tried to find even a beachhead to make it grow so that it could be built. He talked about the past, but he looked to the future. Thank God for a wonderful man, for Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski, prelate and scout, great patriot. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u7	Senator Bogdan Klich is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am convinced that the resolution commemorating Fr. Peszkowski will be accepted unanimously, because it is a fate which is a symbolic fate for many Poles who have moved from inhuman land to free Poland. Indeed, his life is like a buckle. It is time from the second to the third Republic, time from freedom to freedom, but rather beyond this slavery, which in the case of people such as Fr. Peszkowski, like Herling-Grudziński, like Józef Czapski, marked their fate with blood and humiliation. Blood and humiliation. Some, such as Czapski or Herling Grudziński, had the opportunity to express it in outstanding books which are, I hope, school readings and which read at least 2 generations. Others, like Fr. Peszkowski, expressed their greatness by their actions, their commitment, being wherever the Polish patriot should be, who went through that terrible time under Soviet... under a Soviet shoe. He came through, winning. He went through an intact Soviet lie. He passed by, witnessing at the same time the greatness of spirit and attachment to fundamental values. In this resolution proposed by Senator Żaryn, Fr. Peszkowski does not fit, because his personality was many times greater than any resolution we would like to adopt in the Senate. It's a good thing there's an opinion about his character, his personality. All I miss is those gray bushy eyebrows, Mr. Senator, which were his trademark beside that smiling, kind-hearted face and his whole silhouette that we carry in our memory. Indeed, cooperation with Fr. Peszkowski's and I had a chance to cooperate with him, leaving an untapped mark in the memory of all of us who came across him. And that is why I once again express my appreciation to all those who have initiated this resolution, and to all those who adopt it, I think it will be adopted unanimously. This resolution in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u9	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz has your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Guests and Family! I am acting not only as a senator, but also on behalf of the Federation of the Katyn Families and Mrs Isabella Sariusz-Skąpska, who could not get here because she received a late invitation to thank and pay tribute to Fr. Peszkowski, also on behalf of the city of Krakow, which he is an honorary citizen. Senator Ali Hare... Thank you very, very much, Alu, for this. And Sanok... Finally, as a member of the Federation of the Katyn Families, My mom was a Katyn widow. We've met with Fr. Peszkowski, who was actually our chaplain. And all these years, I've had the opportunity to learn from him. Thank you again, Alu, and thank you to the Senate for taking this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u11	Thank you. This is Senator Silence. There you go. [[I asked for it, too.]] Sorry, Senator Hare was first, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u12	Dear Marshal, Dear guests! Today will become the history of the Senate as a special day in this political world. It is rare in the Seym and the Senate that we experience a touching time when tears flow from many eyes. Thanks to the speeches of our colleagues, the witnesses of the life of Fr. Peszkowski, we saw an extraordinary man, a man who survived to bear witness to the truth, the difficult truth. It was his life that also marked those of us with whom he had direct contact, and those of us with whom he showed his attitude how to live. On 23 August this year in Sanok, at the birthplace of Fr. Zdzisława Jastrzębiec-Peszkowskiego, there were beautiful, touching celebrations with the participation of our guests here as well. In Sanoku there is a bandit named Fr. Peszkowski, there is a primary school that not only bears his name, but cherishes this memory and radiates this activity throughout the Podkarpath. In Jasel, the city where I live, we have a monument to the East Golgotha, a monument which was initiated by my late husband. It is very difficult for me, even though it has been eight years since his death, to talk about these facts, about this relationship with Katyn and the person Fr. Peszkowski. I also have some photos of Stanisław Zając, Senator of the 8th term, from Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski. These are our family souvenirs and my duty, as well as many or all of us senators, to bear witness to the truth not only in words but also in deeds. Thank you very much to Senator Żaryn, who teaches us history in a special way, with such energy and energy. Thank you very much for that. Because our story is a special story and it's worth reminding us of it. This will allow us today, in difficult times, to live a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u13	Senator Zdzisław... I'm sorry, Zbigniew Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Guests are here! The nearest sleep. Fr. Washing. Peszkowski! High Izbo! Because we were invited to share the memories of the Fr. Washing. Peszkowski, I would also like to briefly mention an episode, a meeting with him at a special moment for the history of Poland, namely after President Jelcyn announced his confession of the crime committed by Soviet leaders, the crime in Katyn. It was the beginning of the 1990s when Fr. Washing. Peszkowski accompanied by Fr. Archbishop Głodzia came to Chicago, to the President of the Congress of American Polonia Edward Moskal and exchanged with him their observations, comments on this historic act, which was the confession by Russia, by the mouth of the leader, to the crime that the whole world knew had been committed by Soviet leaders and which Russia was constantly trying to deny. I remember the great emotion with which Fr. Washing. Peszkowski talked about this event. At one point I even asked him : How does the Prelate feel about how the Prelate is experiencing this situation? And he told me one thing that I remembered for my whole life: that he feels a great relief, because after so many years of fighting Poland in international forum, at various meetings, conferences it finally happened that the heirs of the perpetrators, the Soviet criminals admitted to this act, to guilt. He said he didn't take it in terms of some kind of revenge, settlement, it only takes it in terms of the realization of truth and justice, and respect for the memory of those who gave their lives for their homeland who had no chance at all to defend themselves. You could say that then your whole life. As before, before this historic moment, when Jelcyn admitted that the Russians committed this crime, Fr. Peszkowski carried out his mission by witnessing everywhere what happened there on this cruel land. One might say that he did like no one else did these words of a beautiful piece by Herbert, the message of Mr. Cogito, namely: "You didn't want to live / you have little time." You have to give a witness. It could be said that it was his motto, which he pursued for the rest of his life. Hello to his memory and his great merits for our homeland! At the same time, he was a man of great modesty and goodness, and this is worth remembering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u15	Would any of your senators like to speak again? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, all in favour of the draft resolution. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. I would like to thank everyone involved in this item on the agenda of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, guests. One minute technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. The text of the act is contained in print No 946, and the report of the committee In print No 946 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously supported the draft resolution at their meeting on 26 September 2018. The resolution concerns amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. The Sejm passed the Act at its sixty-eightth meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent.]] ...on September 13th, based on a government presentation. There were 408 votes in favour of the bill, 6 against, 1 abstention. The basic assumption of the international agreement covered by the ratification act is to guarantee seafarers working on Polish ships the same rights as sailors working on foreign flags. The 2006 International Labour Organisation Convention signed by Poland regulates the conditions for hiring seafarers and life on board. Amendments to the Conventions to which the Act concerns ratification were adopted on 10 February 2016 by the Special Tripartite Committee established pursuant to Article. The 13th Convention and subsequently endorsed by the International Labour Conference on 9 June 2016. Amendments will enter into force if no more than 40% of the objections are raised by 8 July 2018 States Parties to the Convention, as at 8 June 2016, having not less than 40% the global tonnage of the fleet. The amendments are intended to eliminate harassment and intimidation on board the vessel and to allow for the renewal of the validity of the maritime work certificate for a further period not exceeding 5 years if, following the completion of the inspection carried out for its renewal, it appears that the vessel still complies with the requirements of national law or other requirements for the implementation of the Convention and the new certificate cannot be issued immediately and made available on board that vessel. The amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 concern the issues set out in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 1 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland Freedoms, rights and obligations of citizens and matters governed by the law or in which the constitution requires a law. This justifies the ratification of the agreement The President's ratification with the prior consent expressed in the Act. The Commission proposes that the High House adopt the draft resolution submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u17	At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present this position? Minister Stanisław Szwed is with us. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No need.]] The Minister doesn't speak. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint consideration of item 10 and item 11 of the agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 together with the Information on basic radio and television problems in 2017; information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. The text of the report of the National Radio and Television Council is contained in print No. 779 and the information of the National Media Council In print No 774. The reports of the Committee on Culture and Communications on these documents are contained in print Nos 779 S and 774 S. I would like to welcome the Senate President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski... [[Voice from the courtroom: Now, he's coming from the marshal.]] I ask the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, whom I welcome once again, to speak and present the report. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u18	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! By the end of March, the National Council of Radiophony and Television has a statutory deadline to present to the Sejm and the Senate and to the President, as well as to the President of the Council of Ministers, a report on its annual activity for the preceding year. This report is linked to the information on the basic problems of radio and television. The 12th Radio and TV Act. The previous 2017 was the first full reporting period for the current term of the National Council. I would like to remind you that this term of five-member membership began on 12 September 2016. This composition was shaped by the Sejm, the Senate and the President. Let me introduce you to the National Council again. All members of the National Council are here: Teresa Bochwic, Elżbieta Więcławska-Sauk, Janusz Kawecki and Andrzej Sabatowski, Witold Kołodziejski. Today we are here in full squad and we are at your disposal. Please, this report contains information on the implementation of the various tasks assigned to the National Radio and Television Council, including tasks related to the conduct of concession proceedings, the control of the activities of broadcasters, the fixing and distribution of subscription fees, the fixing of concession fees, the organisation of international cooperation, the issuing of implementing acts, the opinion of legal acts and international agreements, and the organisation of research into the content and reception of media services. Here I stress that the organisation of new research on radio and television content, i.e. telemetry research, is the task of the National Radio and Television Council, which in fact the National Council has only started doing this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the report is accompanied by information. This document is particularly recommended because it presents the most important changes that are currently taking place on the radio and television market. These changes are still caused by technological pressure, i.e. the development of new services, mainly on the Internet, which is also very much reflected in the radio and television market, and we see a great deal of concentration both among broadcasters and among operators. We've seen big deals, big acquisitions. First, the American group of Scripps bought TVN, and now we have seen a lot of concentration, because another American media company, Discovery, bought the entire group of Scripps. Here the most important transaction on the scale of Europe concerned Poland, because here TVN participated in the Scripps package. And today we can say that Discovery is most capitalally involved in the European market, in Poland. Such transactions were accompanied by numerous doubts which had to be resolved. And it was not the Polish UOKiK who did this, because it was at the level of the European Commission that the media concentration was examined. The Commission made an appropriate statement and guidance in its opinion when agreeing to the purchase by Discovery of the Scripps group, as we also mention. Ladies and gentlemen, the other task of the National Council is to protect pluralism in the media. In 2017, the National Council saw the greatest threat to pluralism in concentration processes. As you know, pluralism is diversity, and when everything is in one or two or in three large groups, it is already difficult to achieve this diversity. We've been feeding each other... We have also worked on the position of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which was a recommendation on media pluralism and transparency of media ownership. The National Council was primarily involved in the creation of this position, and we also take this position as a directional step in taking various types of concentration decisions. This concentration does not occur only at the level related to the purchase of one media company by the other, i.e. at this horizontal level. We are also dealing with cross concentration, so companies or companies that are paying TV operators buy TV channels, or vice versa, or telecommunications companies are increasingly entering the electronic media market. It's just that all these markets are starting to intersect so much, this convergence is already so strong that today it's hard to distinguish who's the sender, who's the telecommunications operator, who's operating on the Internet, and who's offering classic linear radio or television content. Every big group does a little bit of all this stuff. Therefore, in our view it would be necessary to look at the concentration processes described in the laws, whether in the Competition Protection Act or in the Radio and Television Act, in order to see this cross concentration. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Council is also radio, radiophony. We are developing a process that started Polish Radio a few years ago, i.e. introducing digital terrestrial radio in the DAB+ system. We are continuing this process, but we are moving away from something that has been controversial for the current broadcasters, i.e. since the date of the switch off. Only some European countries have already decided to switch off analogue radio, such as Norway or Switzerland, but in most countries the DAB system is developing in parallel with the analogue system. It is more efficient, more efficient, cheaper, so it creates a new quality in the ether. And radio broadcasters are actually dealing with another problem all the time. In their opinion, with the biggest competition in this market, i.e. online streaming. So if we are talking about competition between digital radio and analogue radio, in my opinion there is no such competition. In fact, there is competition. And we will watch closely the processes that are taking place in the media. between linear radio and Internet services, such as podcasts or linear web streaming, such as Spotify. Similarly, an increasingly important role in the television market What can be seen in our report? VOD services, such as Netflix or HBO GO, or other such services, play on demand. I'll add that to the margin, ladies and gentlemen. Our 2017 data does not show a decrease in TV ratings. On the contrary, we consume more and more of this content, but sources are increasingly diversified. So that today we are not talking about how many people sit in front of TVs, but how many people receive the content, and you can do it in front of the TV, but also more and more on smartphones or computers. As far as DAB radios are concerned, we have prepared a wide range of local DAB-type multiplexes. The first of them will be launched this year, so we are opening the digital radio market for commercial broadcasters. Of course, discussions continue on this subject all the time. We have created an incentive system, we have introduced very large discounts in concession fees, which are important at least in the first years of broadcasting digital radio. The idea is that the market for radio receivers should be filled with receivers, which also allow the reception of digital radio, so that there is no situation that is currently taking place in Poland as one of the few countries, that all car distributors do not provide digital radio as standard. It's been happening for a long time with our neighbors. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about my participation in the legislative work. Recently, in this Chamber, we talked about amending the Act on Radio and Television, the implementation of the European Commission's communication, so-called. Duty cards. This process has lasted for a long time, and there have been tedious negotiations with the European Commission. We've got it all figured out. The amendment regulates the rules for the clearance of public money, which are directed through the National Council for the implementation of the mission by public media companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the questions in detail. Of course, there is a question of complaints that affect the National Radio and Television Council. There were 940 complaints last year about 140 complaints about news broadcasts, 398 complaints about public broadcasts, etc., etc. I don't think statistics reflect the nature of the work we deal with every day. If there's any specific questions, I'll answer them. Ladies and gentlemen, one more initiative launched by the National Council, namely the Round Media Table. For the first time, we have gathered a representative broadcasting environment. There hasn't been such a representation so far. As part of the round table meetings, we have the opportunity to gather all the biggest television broadcasters For the time being, this was mostly about television and talking about burning topics. The first topic was ethical issues, it was a matter of whether we could work out a common ethical card for the media. Other subjects concerned e.g. the presence of broadcasters on the Internet, rules of "must carry," must offer, advertising dietary supplements, etc., etc. Many of these talks, I hope, will result in the development of self-regulatory tools in the future and there will be no need for tough statutory regulations. The environment has grown to establish certain rules, impose certain restrictions on it, and ensure that it is observed. This is a more flexible, more efficient and friendly solution. Thank you very much. That's all about the report. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Please stay for a moment, or there may be some questions. I hope that despite the fact that there have been many foreign words in this report, which are not from the Polish language, the senators have understood everything and will ask questions. Senator Jan Rulewski asked you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u20	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I will start by pointing out that I do not even understand the words spoken in Polish, especially since in the report Mr President said that there were complaints, but he does not know exactly whether statistics are true or not. First question. Mr President, do you examine, in addition to complaints, the dissatisfaction with public television broadcasting, which is boycotting almost at the level of communist television boycott? I was the recipient, but also the boycotter. Do you conduct surveys in this area? I can tell you, I can add that at least 80 people in my voivodship have expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that I'm on public television. And I listened to those voices. Second question, more important. This is, Mr President, a financial matter that you did not mention in Polish, although you could even speak English about it. I'd understand. What's it like with the financials? I'd like to know how many subscribers he's currently paying. What is the level of possible deposits? That's the first question. And second question. When will the problem of television financing be resolved by law? Third question. How long will this television be kept from the budget, which is practically unknown by whom? What's the debt of television anyway? I'm also asking about the securities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u21	Thank you. Since I can see that only one more senator, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, has volunteered for the question, I will ask him to speak. Then the President will answer together. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask you about your plan to take part in the sejm of the local government of the Mazowieckie voivodship from the party lists of Law and Justice. How, in your opinion, can this be reconciled with such an exhaustive, seemingly time-consuming work, the work of the president of the constitutional body? How do you find the time and the future? I'm asking because it's not just a part of the sessions to be a councilman of the Sejm. These are also responsibilities for voters, an interest in the subject of the councilman's activities. Another aspect of this case. How do you agree with the Constitution and the Act on the National Radio and Television Council to uphold freedom of speech, the right to information and public interest in radio and television? There is also a provision that the National Council is an independent institution and should be an institution independent of political parties. I know the judgment of the administrative court that gave its opinion on a similar case. Clearly, there may be a conflict of political interests. The fact that you're not part of the party doesn't make... The activity of the person who runs from the party list... There is a threat of obvious conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u23	Because there are no further questions... [[There's more.]] There's another question. Yes? [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. It's not your fault you didn't grow up.]] Because the senator has asked questions before... [[Yeah, 'cause I couldn't fit in a minute.]] ...then maybe we can ask the president for an answer right now, and then there'll be another series of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u24	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to... I asked for accurate data on the downloadability of the subscription. As far as the first question is concerned, the complaints that affect the National Council, these are complaints... I said the statistics didn't say anything here because it really needed to tell what kind and what kind of broadcasts. These are complaints. Mr. Senator, I didn't say that these are complaints that are an expression of dissatisfaction with public television activities. These complaints concern all broadcasters. They concern both public television and commercial broadcasters. As far as complaints about information programmes are concerned, the majority of them are directed to TVP Info and TVN24 programmes, although not only because complaints about information programmes or publicist Superstations were also affected. So the statistics in my speech would have to be treated... They don't tell us what the problem is. Perhaps wrongly. I've underestimated those numbers. The figures are, of course, given in the report. They are described in detail and can be penetrated. As far as TVP dissatisfaction studies are concerned, that was the wording in the senator's question. I will say that we do not examine discontent with TVP, nor with other broadcasters, Polsat or TVN. We observe the law and the law as well as the performance of concession obligations by all broadcasters. In addition, the National Radio and Television Council is separated from the decision-making process concerning the selection of public media authorities, what was previously within the competence of the National Council, today has the National Media Council. We only deal with matters of statutory duties and funding, and here, as you know, there is a problem because the current subscription law does not work. The question is, how much does he pay? [[Voice from the room: How many people?]] I'd say yes. Like I said, it's 10%. That wouldn't be the answer... I mean, it's too easy to generalize this kind of answer because it's 10%. but let's remember that we registered 48% and a large proportion of those registered are released, etc., etc. So these losses that we're talking about are really affecting, I think, about 20% of society, those who really should be paying. And why only 48% Is it registered? Because he's... Oh, the senator asked... I got it. The principal told me. How many people, how many farms? 1 million 358 thousand 284 holdings • so many regularly pay the subscription. And this is the state of August 31st. Of course, the subscription law needs to be amended, and Mr Czabański, who is present today, can also say a lot about this, because he himself has prepared one or two projects. This year the public media received additional money from the so-called. compensation, i.e. those exemptions, which in connection with certain groups were introduced into the subscription law, were compensated by the State budget. I think that this mechanism is as fair as possible, so it should be, i.e., if a State relieves a group of citizens of financial obligations, it should compensate them in the form of budgetary compensation. In this regard, I have repeatedly acted as President of the National Radio and Television Council, also in previous terms, and my successor, Mr Dworak. I am glad that this year, and in fact at the end of 2017, in December 2017, 960 million PLN went to public media companies. This money did not go in full, some were transferred in 2017, some were transferred in 2018. We estimate that the cost of discounts, which are granted annually and to subscribers, is about PLN 950 million. And this is what we do on the basis of very detailed data from the Polish Post when it comes to registered households, but in order to calculate this level of discounts we use mainly the database of CUS and ZUS. Ladies and gentlemen, about how to reconcile the responsibilities of the councilman and whether there is a conflict of interest here... Ladies and gentlemen, I have been an active self-government officer since 2002. During that time I was either a councillor of Warsaw, or another term of office I was a councilman of the Sejmik Mazowiecki Voivodeship. At that time, I was elected to the National Radio and Television Council and such a discussion was held before the vote. During my first term, I was elected among others. by the Senate, so this discussion was held and the senators, and then the Members, were fully aware of it, because no one was hiding it and we talked about it in meetings. These are two different things, two different activities. This obviously requires commitment, but the councilman's work is not a job, it's a social work, so it's designed so that meetings, sessions or committee meetings are planned so that it can be done outside of professional duties, and that's how all the councilmen work. After all, the diet is not the councilman's salary, it is compensation for the costs of normal activities. So there are no professional councillors, as it is in the Seym, that's what it involves. Of course, I'm not part of a political party, because that's what's written in the constitution, but it doesn't take away passive electoral rights and doesn't prohibit public activity, and it's this kind of activity and this activity is kind of permanently inscribed in my life story, which I've never hidden. Few of this, there was never a situation in which someone would make an accusation of this, there was no situation in which a particular case would be suspected that there might be a mutual impact of a large policy on local affairs. I also do not recall in the Seym, and I am, I repeat, for 8 years in the Seym, a vote that would address issues that could actually lead to a conflict of interest between professional activities in the National Council of Radio and Television and in the Sejm of the Voivodeship. Especially since today's National Council is deprived of the really greatest political pressure that has been exerted on this body, that is, the pressure associated with the selection of public media boards. I have repeatedly, also here, talked about the fact that this is a function that, in fact, for activity, for the comfort of work in the National Council should be removed, at least for direct contact, and so is today, I am talking about the Council of National Media. As far as other financial issues are concerned, I would like to state that this subscription is calculated at the level of PLN 635 million, and for this year it is estimated at a similar level, and the public media received this PLN 950 million from compensation, except that in 2017 it was only part of this amount, which added up to PLN 1 billion to PLN 4 million. [[How much?]] One billion... 1.4... [[A billion?]] 1 billion and 4 million zlotys, added up to 1 billion zlotys. This is the level that last year was the level of public funding from the subscription in its entirety. We estimate that this subscription at... There are also estimates on the basis of which we design e.g. subscription laws. So that we estimate that the public media in Poland should be financed at the level of PLN 3.3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u25	You're asking Senator Rulewski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u26	The question is actually in this sequence. My question is: what is the actual debt of our public media?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u27	And Mr. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u28	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to ask you about the decision of the National Council, which imposed on TVN a penalty of PLN 1.5 million for the way TVN reported the seym crisis, connected, as we remember, with the events in December 2016. This punishment was imposed by the National Council on the basis of expert expertise, as we read in the communications. I would like to ask the President, on the basis of which expertise and who has carried out this expertise for the National Council, which was the basis of the decision of the National Council. It's about who that person was, where he works, what powers he has. We know the political situation around this decision, we know about the criticism of environments, including external criticism, among others. The U.S. State Department has spoken on this. So this is an important issue with regard to the way the National Council works. The point is, on what basis such decisions are made and why the National Council withdrew from this decision, what were the reasons. And in this context, I would like to ask you an additional question about the interpretation of your statement after the decision to waive this penalty has been made. Mr President said something about the fact that the media are certainly not at the level of the task when it comes to resolving political disputes. Does this apply to TVN and how TVN communicates information and reports events, or other media, including public media, do not stand at the level of the task when it comes to resolving political disputes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u29	Are there any more questions for the president? There isn't. Mr. Chairman, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u30	Mr. Senator, this was referring to the TVN situation, because I was explaining as if the basis for the penalty, but I can say today that it applies to all the media, so... [[Public, too?]] I believe that yes, they are not at the level of the task when it comes to mitigating the public debate. [[Mr. Marshal, I just want to answer the first part of the question about who was the national council expert...]] [[That's what you've asked the senator, and you're gonna answer the question.]] I'll answer that. So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the punishment for TVN is concerned, I explained it, but it could never get hard enough into a wide public discussion. Namely, it was not a punishment for the fact that one or another station favors a political party or favors an opposition or a social group. According to the studies we did, these sympathies were very different from different broadcasters. After all, every sender can, if he wants, be biased and encourage a specific political group. No, it was about a situation that was actually already dangerous, a situation where... We remember that there were street protests threatening riots and there really were some very dangerous moments, i.e. moments threatening life or health, as in the Radio and TV Act, in the article. 18, is described as the moment at which the regulator should react. That's the basis for the punishment, that's what it involved. So it didn't happen because TVN reporters got involved somewhere on one side in a political discussion, but because when the street in front of the Seym started to shove when cars were blocked, when there were a lot of really dangerous situations, it was a television sender. And as it seemed, our analysis showed, he should even try to control the situation and show solutions that would help to avoid dangerous situations. At that time, he also got carried away by his emotions and increased his moods, which was dangerous. The penalty of 1.5 million was 1%. possible to impose a penalty, so there was no penalty on our part It's not like you're looking at it like that, it's an exorbitant amount. But indeed, issues that are sensitive and sensitive in nature, because they concern issues related to freedom or the restriction of freedom of speech... I thought the forum best to solve such problems was a forum for a round table, not a courtroom. Well, because we all realize that such decisions are being brought before the courts, and in fact the courts decide who was right: the regulator or the sender. So that for me it is more important to have an effect than to sue for the amount of punishment or compensation. The decision in question wasn't just made on the basis of Mrs. Hanna Karp's report, but after analysis... We've commissioned Mrs. Karp's comparative analysis of the three main news bands, TVP Info, TVN24 and Polsat News, plus the main antenna news logs. But that was just helping with the decision. I'm not hiding that it wasn't an easy decision for the National Council. The fact that only after a year, that is, in December, a year after the events of which the penalty was imposed, such a resolution was taken, well, indicates that it was a difficult decision. I am pleased with such a turn of events that we have managed to smooth things over on the administrative path, so before the judicial process. Well, that's a start. this round table initiative, where, as I say, many more issues are being addressed on this level. But, of course, card issues, ethical issues are difficult in terms of agreement, because the media market, especially the television market, is so competitive that this competition is increasingly translated into a clear difference from other broadcasters. Which also affects e.g. to the fact that the level of public debate is so acute and that the media does not contribute to the resolution of this dispute. Thank you very much... [[There was still a question of expertise.]] I'm the one who answered the question. It was an expert opinion... Mr. Senator must have asked about Mrs. Hanna Karp's expertise, right? [[Yes.]] Well, she was, but it was a comparative study of three programs. And it was kind of complementary to our work. We also ordered legal analysis and... Those weren't the only materials we used. Besides, they are all available on our website.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u31	For the third time, he wants to ask Senator Rulewski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. For the third time, but because I did not receive an answer to this last question, about deficit and balancing instruments. As I understand it, I have to do my own math. And the question is... I share your point that in the case of these 820 different complaints, it is difficult to know who or what they are, what they relate to. But it may not be a complaint, but an appeal to the State signed by at least a few hundred people and concerning one of the programmes, whose main actor Or the main participant is Mr. Cejrowski. This complaint had a universal nature, because it concerned xenophobic statements, an insult from this gentleman's mouth... They're coming from abroad... I don't even know the full extent of the Polish citizen, because his status is strange. And in this question: how much do these messages cost? If you don't know, it's a question for Mr. Czabanski. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: This is a question about the cost of the broadcast, right?]] Yeah, yeah. I mean. not the cost of the show, because it includes technique. I mean, how much are the copyright fees that make the deal with Mr. Ceyrovski? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Unfortunately, I can't answer that, I don't even have that information.]] Then I withdraw... But what I'm talking about is what the National Council has taken on this appeal of many hundreds of people connected with these relationships, which, I say, are xenophobic, hostile, the language of hatred is undoubtedly... there are very few traces of the language of hatred. Has the National Council considered this appeal yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u34	In this particular situation, I am unable to answer this specific question right now. In fact, we would have to see in the office whether and how we investigated such a complaint if it was filed. As far as statistics are concerned, there are precise figures in the report, how many complaints were made about which television, so this can also be compared. As far as such broadcasts are concerned, it is obviously a problem. The problem is both with the public broadcaster... We had complaints and responded to the New Year's Festival on TVP, but we also had a lot of complaints and responded to the broadcast of the fire in the brothel on TVN. That's why I'm listing these two shows because they were both satirical programmes. Yes? And there are complaints about the contact glass, and the same about the satiric program on TVP Info. Well, we try to apply and apply one measure to everyone. It doesn't always mean we're putting some kind of punishment on the sender, but we always react. And, for example, as a result of a few of our reactions... We paid attention to the sender, we asked him if we reprimanded him, and the sender reacted, and for example. removed a given program, a given programme from the website That was the case. both the black and white broadcasts on TVN24 as well as the TVP Info broadcasts on defaming journalists of Gazeta Wyborcza. In short: and in one, and in the other situation we try to keep up to date. If we see any violation of the law or see any undesirable situation, our goal is primarily to cooperate with the sender, not to apply the most radical measures, such as imposing penalties or initiating proceedings for the withdrawal of concessions. Thus, in many situations it is possible to do so. As I say, TVN's programs, to which we had reservations, took off the Internet, public television did the same thing, so this type of activity is also effective. I believe that the National Council in its decisions shows that it has the same approach to all broadcasters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u35	Senator Bobko also has a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u36	Mr President, this answer inspired me to the question. I would ask for an explanation, because you said here that the same measure is measured by the operation of all television, including public television. I have some doubts, but public television has a special mission and is funded by public funds. Is this statement that in all dimensions the operation of public television and other television or in general of public media and other media is certainly correct? However, shouldn't television and public media require more than that and a mission that involves public funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u37	That's right, Mr. Senator. I think we should demand more. And we struggle with it all the time. Hence the newly introduced rules for the clearance of missions in public media, I think, will facilitate the requirement of certain obligations. Here we have... Well, it's a public broadcaster. it also has a framework imposed by law, directly entered, e.g. guaranteeing the minimum times for political parties present in the Sejm and ensuring that the representatives of those parties are present on public service broadcasting. Which, of course, no commercial broadcaster has. And the public media are doing this duty. I will remind you that this is not about comparing how much time a party has been on TV, but about whether the parties have reached the minimum level of presentation on TV. But we control and check both, i.e. references, time comparisons of political parties, representatives of political parties on public broadcasters, and we publish them. And that is also the reason for many discussions, among others. in Parliament. This is, among other things. However, the application of significantly higher requirements to the public service broadcasters than to commercial broadcasters. But the sender, both private and public, alone, is directly shaping his programme and neither the National Radio and Television Council nor the National Media Council nor the Ministry of Culture, which is now the owner of public media companies, has the possibility to influence these programs, because such a position of the sender, also public, and perhaps especially public, guarantees the constitution itself. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the financial results of public media companies are concerned, because you asked Senator Rulewski for this data, this is... I can only say that after the distribution of part of compensation in 2017, public television recorded a profit of PLN 600 thousand, Polish Radio, a profit of PLN 2 million 790 thousand, and regional companies different, some of them recorded... part was over the line, part under the line. This would also have to be discussed in detail, because just because one of the companies is on the line does not mean that it is in a very bad situation, for example. has a large backup capital, etc., etc. But thanks to compensation, the situation in public media has indeed been stabilised. I would like to remind you that it is the small companies of regional radio stations that are most affected, and on television Regional TV centres, because there is the smallest revenue from advertising sales. These companies make the least money. And the level of funding, because it's also... This is, of course, linked to the question concerning the specific tasks imposed on the public broadcaster. Ladies and gentlemen, before paying compensation, the funding of the mission or programme from the subscription money on television was at 20%, so in fact this subscription share, i.e. the obligation that public television should perform towards the State, was financed by the State in 20%. This is also an important element in the discussion, especially about new obligations, but also about public service obligations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u38	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have such a question about the public television mission. You said that this is not about comparing air time, which is given to individual representatives of individual political parties, but about whether any bias, political parties have access to public media at all. But tell me how to explain the situation here that the candidate for the ruling political option for President of Green Mountain is performing at least twice a week on one of the programs, and the candidate for the Civic Coalition in no way can reach and appear on public television at all. And each of us, please note, pays a subscription. In the case of commercial television, it is us, buyers, consumers who decide whether we use it or not. And here we have no alternative. Each of us is obliged to pay our subscription, whether we like it or not. If we don't pay, we're about to get a call to pay. And I'll ask you. 'Cause this is a really big deal for me. For a written reply. I would like you to explain this matter, explain what the activity of the television division in Gorzów Wielkopolski is like in the context of equal access of various representatives of different political parties... And one more example. Lubuskie Voivodeship occurs at least once a week on public television, and the Marshal of voivodship once, twice a year. That is the relationship, Mr President. I think that as far as public television standards are concerned, they are in no way acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u40	We'll also ask for questions from Senator Pekkis and Senator Szymanski. After this series, you will be president. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u41	I have three questions. The first question relates to requests for payment... [[Louder!]] ...calls for payment of a subscription from persons who are legally exempt from it. I'm already carrying out the second such complaint of the citizen, a reasonable one, unfortunately, in my opinion. This is based on the fact that a person, e.g. Retired, gets a call to pay back. His explanations sent to the address indicated are not taken into account at all, and then he gets a bailout order and takes over the account. This is the second, in a very short interval, case in which the person entitled to... I send these letters to you, but I'm afraid... What's the problem? The problem is that no explanation is accepted. In other words, no one is generally considering explanations that are encouraged in a letter sent to a subscriber exempt from the charge. This results in unjustified enforcement proceedings. This is, I think, a flaw that should be pointed out. This needs to be worked out, because this is the second such case in a small town. The second thing is, it's like a mirror reflection of the senator who was just presenting his case. [[It's not feelings, it's facts.]] In the Opole Voivodeship I made a senate statement on this matter, there is an answer, you can look at it The Senators of Law and Justice are virtually not allowed on television. Senator of Law and Justice Jurek Czerwiński in the first half of the year was shown, uninvited, once, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis was shown twice, and Senator Wach took part in television shows ten times. This is absurd for me when it comes to balance, the more I represent the group... [[Mr. Senator, please limit yourself to the questions, because you...]] Please explain in writing the situation of lack of symmetry as regards the number of votes and support received in the region. Please explain the reason for not letting our group president in the voivodship on television, Katarzyna Czochary, in writing. Okay? [[That's all the questions?]] Not yet, Mr. Marshal. One more thing. Okay? [[There you go. But there's a minute limit.]] Case number three. Third question: do you control the performance of the broadcasting tasks by the entities to which you grant concessions? Why am I asking this? I was approached by the priest's father, who was bound by the Mount of St. Anna, to whom one of the broadcasters requested the suspension of the transmitter on the Mount of St. Anna. When it was very, very close, the sender said it would give twice as much as it needed, but without any invoices, without any contracts. The priest refused, but the transmitters hung on the Mount St. Anna. Do you control a situation where someone is signaling without having a deal with the person from whom they lease space?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u42	Senator Szymanski's question. Then we'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In the context of Senator Bobka's question, to which we have heard the affirmative answer, that public media should have particularly high standards, I would like to ask you whether you assessed the objectivity of the information programmes, especially the main issue of the Public Television Journal. Were there any complaints about this? Have you been debating about this? I'm talking about objectivity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u44	Thank you. Before you can answer, Mr President, Senator Boris-Damięcka will make a formal request. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u45	I'd like to get my fellow senators' attention. Please take this into account, Mr. Marshal. That individual cases presented by fellow senators should be included in senators' interventions addressed to the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u46	Senator, this is not a formal proposal, this is a discussion in which you will be able to advise your fellow Senators. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But I ask the marshal to take this into account.]] That's not my job. You argue with the senators' way of asking questions, and that's for discussion. Mr President is now asked to answer this series of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u47	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't I start with... I understand that the issue of Gorzow and Opole is indeed an individual issue in the sense that we can go to the sender then and ask for detailed information about the presence of politicians on TVP3 Gorzów or TVP3 Opole, and we will have such statements. Just remember, too, that the sender is obliged to provide a minimum of political parties. And perhaps this minimum is assured. But we'll see if there's a big difference. As I understand it, in Gorzów there is a disproportion to the disadvantage of the Platform, and in Opole in turn the other way. The disproportion to the detriment of law and justice. [[I'm talking about presidential candidates...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[About presidential candidates...]] Oh, in the election... Yes. As for the electoral situation and the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen, it is also... You are well aware that there are times for issuing electoral programmes and public television... a public broadcaster is obliged to share air times with election committees, so there can no longer be any derogation here, which means every second can be counted. [[But it is.]] There are selected blocks, there are lots and I hope And we're in control of that, too. Everything's gonna go well. What we're fighting for is for a public broadcaster to make more and more time available in software blocks. About the subscription waivers... Ladies and gentlemen, yes, this is sometimes a very difficult situation, sometimes even dramatic. First of all, the person entitled to release must report the release himself. I mean. here it is of course not the National Council, only the Polish Post is doing all this work, i.e. analyzing the conclusions and then determining whether the release is due or not. However, the mechanism is such that without active involvement on the subscriber's side, these activities by the office will not be undertaken. Therefore, if someone acquires pension rights and related rights, after having exceeded a certain age, the right to release, he should report it to Poczta Polska himself. After our conversations. We've done a lot of work here, too. The Polish Post has trained and prepared postal officials to help fill in such requests and to make it more user-friendly. But there are also many situations where this exemption is not eligible. Then the enforcement procedure is actually launched and the tax office is already asking for outstanding debts. At a time when there is no basis, which is very clearly set out in the legislation, for granting such a relief, the proposals shall be dealt with by the National Council. Looks like there's almost a quarter of a million of them all the time. We just can't... we don't have a reason to cancel that kind of debt. So what's important here is first of all to be aware that if you stop paying your subscription, then the IRS will demand this money, which if you count the entire subscription times 5 years, sometimes is a very heavy burden. And the National Council is no longer in a position to put an end to this kind of backlog. I believe that, when introducing the licence law, we would need to do the abolition act as soon as possible, in parallel, as far as those arrears are concerned. These are the issues of the notification. It's also like this. I'm saying this because I think you're dealing with this problem, and I know that subscribers are applying to Parliamentary offices asking for intervention and assistance. If such a subscriber receives a call for payment from the tax office, i.e. the entire execution process is being initiated, the case is threatened by a bailiff execution, first of all, it is necessary to submit to the National Council an appropriate letter, which is considered by us, but secondly, to inform the post office and then the post office informs the tax office. The point is for these two offices to suspend the proceedings. Sometimes it is so that someone has submitted appropriate, appropriate documents for consideration by the National Council of Radiophony and Television, but the tax office conducts its enforcement proceedings, because these paths become independent. So it must be noted that such proceedings in the National Council suspend execution, but the appropriate service must be notified. Do we control contracts between the concessionaire and the contractor? No, ladies and gentlemen, we do not control such agreements. We control only and only whether the activity is carried out in accordance with the concession. In the case of Mount St. Anna whether or not in any other case we are checking whether the transmission takes place, whether the technical parameters are the same as those included in the concession, i.e. both the power and other damping parameters, the location of the antenna and, in particular, its height. These are the parameters that the sender is bound by the license, we're just controlling it. As far as objectiveness is concerned, I'm going to say, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we're trying to investigate. Last year we conducted such on a rather large scale studies of objectivity in the media. But really, if we wanted to... It's the subject of work all the time. We've forwarded our applications to the broadcasters. I know that public television is using our analyses, and in September it is doing a special meeting with the academic community, which is conducting this type of research, as well as with its publishers, doing internal workshops around it, so far it is an internal document, an internal journalistic workshop. Of course, it is so difficult to measure the level of objectivity unambiguously, but it is certainly possible to work out a methodology and we are working on it. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u48	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, hello? [[I don't have an additional question, but I certainly didn't get the answer to two questions...]] [[Microphone.]] Turn on the microphone, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u49	...then I'd ask you to make me get a written reply. The first question concerned the deficit and the instruments to cover it in public media. The second question concerned the position of the National Radio and Television Council in relation to the appeal of various people in connection with the programme in which Mr Cejrowski participates.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u50	I understand that Mr President will answer in writing. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u51	I answered, Mr. Senator, to these questions, you just walked out of the room. Deficits on public television do not exist, there is 600 thousand PLN on the plus after the transfer of money from the compensation of subscription allowances. And when it comes to that show, I'm gonna say we didn't get any complaints, so we didn't respond. It's the first time I've heard... Of course, when it comes to Wojciech Cejrowski's broadcast, we can check... Other programs, other broadcasts had complaints, but some had previously responded to television itself. [[But it was a public appeal, in many public media.]] [[I understand that Mr President will answer in writing.]] Yes, in writing. As I understand it, the first question I gave was a comprehensive answer in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u52	Good. Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u53	That is actually not a question, it is a request to the President to provide to the committee the results of the objectivity studies that you have just said, because we would like to get acquainted with them. The point is, would you mind? You may answer this question by inviting the members of the cultural committee to this discussion with academic communities devoted to the objectivity of public media... [[Voice from the room: Lack of objectivity.]] ...or lack of objectivity. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u54	Yes, of course. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u55	Mrs. Senator, but why... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...why should we limit this discussion to public media only? I think objectivity should be a feature of all the media at all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone, microphone...]] If that's what we want and what we're dealing with... If we want to study something and work out a methodology, then we can't only study one type of media, we need to have a point of reference. Therefore, to be objective, an objective study will require a series of comparative studies on at least a few different antennas, commercial and public, to be able to relate. If I write in the indicator now that the level of objectivity of such a program was 75%, then it won't say anything. We must have some comparison, a reference. And this study, which we have partially carried out and which we are preparing for, is, for now, a study under internal analysis and work in the company, so we are not making it public. But as soon as we finish these stages, of course we're going to make it public. And I think the idea of such a discussion is very good. And if the senate culture committee were to patronize it... I think the more discussions we have, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u56	Do you want to ask, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u57	Yeah, ad vocem. I want to ask, yes. Let me put it this way: what company is the Honorable Chairman talking about? Mr President does not work in any company, Mr President is the head of a constitutional body. And you explain yourself to the citizens. So, if you are doing any research on media objectivity, please provide this cultural committee with access to public information. I don't understand what you're saying. It's in some company. [[Voice from the room: It's done...]] ...and that you can't give it because it's in the paper. We'll ask for it as it is. The tests have been done, paid. We'll ask for this as part of our access to public information. And thank you for... If we are invited to such meetings and discussions, we will be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u58	Senator, I didn't say I was working at the company. And I don't work in the company. On the other hand, the monitoring and analysis procedure has not been completed. As soon as it is completed, the research will be made public, publicly available, i.e. it will be available on the website. Of course, I'll send you a link or a printed report. [[Then tell me when it's gonna be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u59	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. One is even related to the sources that are included in the information you provide, namely Nielsen. For a long time we have heard from authoritative sources that this company is lowering some research results related to Polish Television, and from media information, although online, I find out that the National Council is going to create its own way of telemetry research. Could you bring us up to speed on that? [[Talking in the O.R.]] So it's kind of like giving up the company's services. And the second issue is capital, which is on TV and on the radio. Could you assess the percentage of foreign capital in terms of television and radio owners? How does this apply to external standards, let's call it, European? And do you think that there should be changes in this area, or are we simply European as far as ownership of electronic media is concerned, compared to the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u61	There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u62	Mr Senator, as regards the issue of capital participation in the media market, he is different in the case of the television market, different in the case of the radio market and different in the case of the press. Yeah, but we don't do press. While the TV market is dominated by 3 large TV groups, i.e. TVP, TVN and Polsat, and here more or less one can say that individual broadcasters have 1/3 of this market, although the most powerful is public television... And by the way, I would like to say that it is not true that commercial television has distanced public television. No, public television has the strongest market shares. Of course, we're not just talking about TVP1 and TVP2, we're talking about all the channels, including the thematic channels. That's over 30%. And if we look at the TV itself, it turns out that right now the only foreign capital here is Discovery's capital, which is American. Although the Polsat group is also a group, the companies are registered differently, not necessarily in Poland, so here it is difficult to clearly define. Meanwhile, on the radio market is dominated by the 2 largest commercial broadcasters, namely Eurozet and RMF, and this is on the one hand German capital and on the other hand German capital. French capital and now Czech capital, because the Czech group bought Eurozet. And, please, in order to see this picture fully, we must say that we also have a pay-TV market, which has a direct impact on media pluralism, and in this market operators are as large groups as UPC, such as the former TPSA, i.e. Orange, like ITI, NC+, the Digital Polsat platform, TOYA, Vectra and Multimedia. And now, ladies and gentlemen... Well, mostly it's foreign capital. But last year there was no decision by the UOKiK, there was no agreement for the UPC group to take over the Multimedia cable network. Now we have information that talks are being made... that the Polish cable network Vectra will connect to the Multimedia network. So we will have a stronger Polish operator. This concentration also occurs on the Polish market. But it is certainly the case that here the pay-TV and cable market is with a very strong participation of foreign entities. In addition, the advertising market, also dominated by large players, when it comes to media houses, dominated by large global players. And the media house is really shaping advertising policy in electronic media and selling advertising. So-called. advertising broker is also dominated here by 2 large entities, i.e. Polsat and TVN. And TVN, as a foreign entity, has the strongest position here. So if... as you can see, this question cannot be answered directly. There's a lot of dependence and interpenetration. On different levels, on different markets, this foreign capital is very visible and sometimes even dominant. About... the first question was... [[Nielsen.]] About Nielsen, about the research. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is... I do not refer to this and I never judge the quality of the current research, I do not know, I do not comment on whether the public broadcaster in this research is sufficiently valued. But I do know that Nielsen is conducting research using technology that is already decades old, and with such a dynamically changing market for electronic media, this technology is simply not sufficient. In addition, these 2,000 households included in the survey panel seem to be far too few today. Nielsen is only studying TV, and today we watch more and more TV programs on tablets, on computers, and actually mostly on smartphones, on mobile phones. And it's not true that we're only looking at short forms, because all the shows are too. Young people and not only young people watch them on their mobile phones today. In short, for this market to have some value so that there can be a reasonable and ambitious programming policy, you need to have a good, detailed survey of audiences and listening, because the same applies to radio, listening to electronic media. The National Council has such an obligation in its tasks In our statutory tasks we organize media reception and radio listening tests. This is the first time we've taken this seriously. The government took it seriously, too, because we got the money from the budget for it. And we're gonna be doing this kind of research. We are already working with the Central Statistical Office, the School of Economics, the Institute of Statistics and Sociology. We also work with the Institute of Communications. Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing for the launch of a large telemetric survey, to cover 26 thousand users, to equip them with modern passive measuring devices, i.e. without the required activity of a given panelist, so as to measure and listen, and ratings coming from all sources. We really want to create a single-source study. What is important, we want these studies to be accepted by the whole media market and by advertisers, because it is a currency to settle on this market, an extremely sensitive thing. In fact, we would be something like this for the entire media market of the National Bank of Poland. We are the ones who set the exchange rate for this currency, and we must be responsible for the quality of our work. In parallel, we're having conversations... We have at the moment such a very strong declaration from the IAA, the International Advertising Association, and from the SAR, the association of media houses, we are still in contact with broadcasters. - about supporting it. This really is a lot of openness from the market, which naturally mistrusts such initiatives, especially if they are taken by the state office. We're running this trial. In order to do such research, we will want to set up a separate company so that we do not do so within the framework of the National Council. We want to establish a company for which changes to the law will be needed. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we already have data from the so-called. measurement of RPD, which is the feedback path from decoders, and we are able to analyze the behavior of viewers on an ongoing basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have access not to 100, 200 or 300 farms, but to tens of... 1 million farms. In fact, today through contracts with pay-TV operators It's just developing. We have access to 1 million households. We can say, based on 1 million household observations, that this is the result of the ratings. Ladies and gentlemen, this is done at a frequency of one measurement per second, which is almost in real time we see very carefully the behavior, the reaction of the viewers. These are, of course, statistical data, nobody has data from specific holdings, only from the whole group. This plus the construction of the research panel, it's about these panelists equipped with the appropriate equipment. It will provide us with a very modern, accurate basis for launching such research. Whether and what television will benefit from this, today I am not able to say. Not much, I think the research needs to be prepared so that no one has the slightest reason to question it. Then everyone will just have to take the results. [[Some kind of time horizon, if you don't mind...]] We're already preparing this database, analyzing RPD data, which is from decoders. We now have 1 million farms within reach. This is what the Communications Institute is working on. By the end of the year, we will prepare a tender procedure for the delivery of technology and panel construction. Already now, the Institute of Statistics of the SGH is preparing us with initial research, which is a very broad research that forms the basis for the equipment of households with such devices. At the beginning of the year we will run the first pilot panelists. So the time perspective is this: from next year it starts with its normal rhythm, and at the end of the year they are normal, constant, developed research. Of course, the most important question is when the market will be ready to switch to such research, because we do it so that broadcasters and advertisers will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u64	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I have three questions. First. Is there a correlation in your assessment between objectivity, software offer and advertising in one medium or another? Because in my opinion, yes, there is absolutely such a correlation. And I don't exactly share your view that TVN... I mean, I agree with the data you're quoting, it's that TVN is the biggest advertiser, but I think the two reasons I've mentioned are also affecting that. My question is, do you have... Do you guys do this kind of research? If so, I'll ask you to share the results. The second question, Mr President, is... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Sorry, I did not understand the question, to be honest.]] The question is simple. Do you think there's a correlation between television objectivity... If I was a potential entrepreneur, I'd... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski:...and advertising and sales influences.]] Yes, sir, of course. Second question. Do you consider it a kind of paradox that companies of the Treasury, and that is also my question, use electronic advertising media It's mostly from public television... Do you have data on how much the Treasury companies use the public television market in which TVN and Polsat? How the Treasury companies use... How? Do they choose this advertiser? Is that what you're investigating? And the third, last thread, about the subscription. You're talking about objectivity. I agree with the role of the National Radio and Television Council in monitoring the entire media market. But I very much respect the opinion of my colleague, Senator Alexander Bobka, and I fully agree with him that public media are obliged to maintain slightly different standards, among others. Therefore, as I said earlier, Mr President, it is that we as citizens of the Polish state have no alternative, we cannot stop paying a subscription to public television. If I don't like Polsat, TVN or anything, then I may not be buying the signal, not watching it, and here I have no alternative. In the case of a public person, even as I am, the paradox is that I pay a subscription and only learn bad things about my political formation. [[Mr. Senator, you've been saying this for a very long time.]] This is ridiculous. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u66	Is there a correlation between influences, advertising revenues and negative effects on objectivity? Well, of course there is, and you can see that. The smaller the subject, the stronger the correlation. This is clearly seen in small websites, small, i.e. important, but economically not so strong. A big, strong sender can become more independent, but... it's always a threat. The same is the threat, ladies and gentlemen, to the financing of local broadcasters by local authorities. That's one thing. Will the Treasury companies place the money ♪ and what's gonna happen On public television? I don't know. We don't investigate things like that. We don't have access to that. But usually the Treasury companies placed bigger advertising budgets with the public broadcaster than...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u67	Excuse me, may I ask you a question? How was it in earlier years, I don't know, since the beginning of the breakthrough, since the 1990s? How is this market shaped? Do you not have such data on the participation of companies of the State Treasury in public media?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u68	We don't. We don't have that kind of data. [[Thank you.]] Perhaps the Advertising Council or an international association... I'll see. I'm curious myself... If we have a source, I'd be happy to share. Are public service obligations higher? Of course, they're bigger than commercial broadcasters, that's true, but, ladies and gentlemen, let's have... Well, as for objectivity, and... well, a public broadcaster should set standards. But let's also remember that a public broadcaster isn't just an offer, it's not just information... First of all, it is not only Polish Television and not only information. We didn't say anything at all. about the information program of Polish Radio, very dynamically developing... [[Okay.]] ...and here complaints and reservations, well, actually there isn't. But above all, what is expensive, all television production, i.e. feature films, the Television Theatre, the whole cultural offer... After all, television is almost 24 hours TVP Culture, TVP History, TVP ABC. Programs for children are very expensive when it comes to their production, but they pay back in the years to come, even decades to come, so it's worth it. invest and only a public broadcaster is able to bear the cost of such an investment. If we're talking about sports... the whole open transmission of the mundial with all the accompanying events, with very expensive license rights, plus decoding, i.e. making the TVP Sports channel available on terrestrial television... In fact, in Europe, this is a phenomenon, apart from the example of German, quite complicated... But there's no... Sports channels, sports offers are now pure commercial exploitation, by all broadcasters, and this decoding, making available, publicising sport with premiere major events is really expensive. And I think this is a very strong public offering. I understand that, especially in Parliament, in the Seym, or in the Senate, you are more interested in information and politics, but public television is of course not just information and politics. Even if we take into account the entire television market, the entire audience market, we will see that the 2 main competing information programs, TVN24 and TVP Info, that is a total of just over 6% participation in the entire television market. In fact, we need to realize that our world is a little out of the blue. We live something that, in fact, people, citizens live much less. So I understand the reservations, I understand these issues of objectivity, but from my point of view, from the point of view of someone who cares mainly about funding and the execution of missions today, this mission is really much greater than informational tasks. In most cases, these information tasks are not financed. At least until compensation was not financed It's from subscription money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u70	I feel a little moved, and I would like to protest against the statements smuggled in the question by Senator Zdrojewska, that the President should explain himself to the public here. The President does not explain, but reports, and the content he presents shows that this is at least very well done work. [[And the question, Mr. Senator?]] [[The punch line.]] [[And the question is... what's the question? Mr. Senator, a question?]] It was a request to correct your statements to the senator... [[And you weren't establishing a senator...]] ...who says things here unworthy of the senator of the brightest Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u71	Now it's question time. Please, the question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mr President, I will return to the matter of research once again. I'd like you to give us the exact information when these tests were done. Is it true that they cost 250,000 PLN? Was this done by way of an invitation to tender? If so, please inform us when the tender took place. And what was the deadline for the study? Have the tests been done... Did the research involve public television or all the media? I ask you to think about it before you answer me. And once again, please make available information about these studies in writing. If you don't want to make them available because the committee didn't do it, then I'm saying that's what I'm doing. I am asking for this research to be made available through public information, because it is research done by a state authority, for taxpayers' money, and it is not reserved by any state secret. Please respond and address this. [[But I understand... you said earlier that you would make it available, didn't you?]] [[The chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, I said I'd make it available as soon as we're done with the procedure, but I understand the senator wants a written reply, so...]] [[In writing. Good.]] No, no, but I'd like to... In that case, if you're going to make it public, whether it's me or the cultural committee, please tell me when. Tell me when you'll release it. I think you should make it available right away, because there's no reason for you to investigate it, follow it, etc. Please share what is and what has been done by public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u73	Senator, you asked for an answer in writing, so I'll give it in writing. Research is no secret, so I'll make it available as soon as I complete the proper procedure. They didn't cost $250,000. There are many other misunderstandings here. As I understand it, you expect me to send it in writing, so that's what I'm committed to. [[And when are you gonna release this research? Answer me.]] [[Voice from the room: next year.]] When I'm done working on these tests, they're being used for internal work for the time being. [[Sir, these tests aren't...]] But, Senator, you asked me to... these were your first words: please answer in writing. Then I'll answer that in writing. [[But you can answer here.]] I'll answer you in writing next week. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u74	Good. Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the president? I don't see any volunteers. Mr President, thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, has committed himself to answer in writing the questions asked by the senators: Waldemar Sługocki, Jan Rulewski, Barbara Zdrojewska and Grzegorz Pekkis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the Senate President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański. I ask the President to speak and present the information. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u75	Good morning, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017 was provided to you in writing. This is not a very comprehensive document, and I hope that you will be familiar with it. I do not want to repeat the information contained there so as not to prolong, and quite much has already been said about the media market, including the public media market, and this is the section of the market that we are dealing with. I'd just like to say a few words for introduction. The National Media Council in 2017 carried out its statutory tasks, which mainly focused on shaping the authorities of public media media companies and on shaping the programming boards of these media. We have also adopted a number of important resolutions, appeals to public media, and we have been constantly familiar with the effects of public media activities. If there are more specific questions, please come.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u76	You're welcome, Senator. There you go, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask you about the financial situation of public television. We know that in the last year, television has been heavily invested in money. It was a loan, then compensation for the statutory exemption from the subscription of almost PLN 1 billion. And the proceeds from advertising. It's getting serious, but as far as we know, television is still having financial problems. It's not a secret, that's what we're discussing. I would like to ask you about your financial condition also in the context of your statement when we voted on the Act on the Establishment of National Media. You said during the interview that one of the tasks of the National Media Council would be to seal the current subscription bill by introducing elements that would encourage people to pay their subscription. I would like to ask in the context of this financial situation of television: what is it? Because it's not in the report. Is the National Media Council working on sealing the system, and if so, what is this sealing supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u78	As far as the sealing of the subscription system is concerned, the National Council of Radiophony and Television is working on this, because according to the applicable law, the National Council is responsible, among others. for the division of the subscription, but also for its acquisition from citizens. Of course, the government is working on that too. Our opinions are also expressed during discussions on the expected, desired solutions. We know that this system is inefficient and unfair. That's what we know. Unfortunately, this has happened over the last many years that it has been disassembled and is inefficient I don't know why anymore. This is undoubtedly a system that needs to be changed. I mean, not so much you need to patch up this system as you need to put in a new one. So far there are rather ongoing attempts to repair the financial situation of public media, which include. they rely on what President Kołodziejski said, that payments were made for compensation to public broadcasters for unearned revenues because the legislator exempted certain groups of citizens from paying their subscription. This is why these compensations are granted. These amounts They were mentioned here. The public media received and stabilised this year and the future financial situation in these media for the year. And these payments started at the end of last year. But, of course, we are strongly in favour of a permanent system of new funding for public media. The point is that these media have a clear financial perspective and can therefore also make certain plans, mainly investment, but also programme plans, because planning year by year does not create a good situation in the media.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u79	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me another question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would also like to ask the President whether the subject of the Council's work was explaining the reasons why public television did not extend very sensible, it seems to me, and fruitful cooperation with the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. An orchestra that seems to be one of the most interesting projects in the history of the last 30 years. Well, I don't want to brag, because many of the advantages of this action are not only purely material, but also enrich social capital etc., etc. Was the Council interested in explaining the reasons why public television stopped this highly needed and socially useful cooperation, according to me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u81	As I recall, at one of the meetings of the National Media Council, members of the board asked TV management, among others. That case you're talking about, the senator. And we received, as I remember, such an answer that television informs and will inform about the activities of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, as well as many other charitable actions that take place in Poland. [[Yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u82	Yes, Senator? [[Yeah, one more question...]] But this is just a moment, because now Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[I'm sorry. Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u83	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to return to the matter of the TV President's competition. There's an investigation going on with the D.A. on this case right now, and we know from the media that you testified to President Kurski. This investigation concerns a possible submission after the deadline of the offer of President Kurski. I would also like to ask you to explain to us what the impact of the media council was on the admission of candidates. Did the media council representative participate in the process of submitting these requests and watch over whether or not someone else did it, and if so, who was it? That's one question. And second question. It concerns the delay in selecting the President of the radio. Why are we waiting so long for the new president to be elected? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Sorry, the end of the second question... Why are we waiting so long...]] Why so long, yes. I think it's already been... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański:...for President of...]] ...to the head of the radio. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Polish Radio, so-called. It's a big radio, isn't it?]] Yes, sir, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u84	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As regards the procedure for submitting applications for the competition for the President of the Board of Polish Television, no representative of the National Media Council participated in this reception. The Rules of Procedure provided that offers were to affect the address of the Sejm's feed office and we did not participate in this, no representative of the National Media Council participated in this. As for the second case, the competition for the president of Polish Radio, I would like to... Of course, I will answer the senator's question, although this does not concern the point we are discussing, i.e. information concerning the year 2017 because you, I understand, are asking about the current situation in Polish Radio... [[Yeah, because I don't know if I'm gonna be a senator in a year and a half, Mr. Chairman. So I'm asking now, not in a year and a half. Thank you.]] Excuse me... [[I'm asking now because I don't want to wait another year for another report.]] No, no... I will, of course, answer that question. The current President of the Board of Polish Radio was suspended at the beginning of August this year, and cancelled at the end of August, so it has not yet passed a month... well, maybe just lasts a month since the appeal. Give us some time to pick a new president, and I'm sure we will. And I don't see any delay here. The Management Board is stable, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has been seconded to manage the Board of Polish Radio, the situation is completely stable, does not require any radical, violent action.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki is still... Excuse me, Senator Rybicki. Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u87	Thank you. I'm going back to your interview just from when the idea for the National Media Council developed. You have announced that the aim of the media council will be to ensure that in the interests of the public, the media provide reliable information which will be separated from the opinion. And you added that one of the Council's tasks would be to create a team that will monitor the public media programme on an ongoing basis. Whether such a team was created and whether it analyzes e.g. the percentage of political party representatives in major public media policy and information programmes? I'm asking because, for example, I'm asking. During the debate in the Sejm, Members pointed to disparities, e.g. The participation of law and justice representatives in the programme is 80%. And only 20% is the participation of other political parties. How are you gonna deal with that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u88	With regard to all issues relating to the monitoring of public media, these tasks are carried out within the National Radio and Television Council. We have therefore come to the conclusion that we will not duplicate this work because it involves financial expenditure. Any monitoring shall be carried out by the National Radio and Television Council and if requests for monitoring for specific reasons or complaints about programmes are requested, they shall also be dealt with on the basis of the monitoring of the National Radio and Television Council and within the powers of the National Radio and Television Council. The National Media Council does not deal with this issue separately. As far as information on the participation of individual political groups during television broadcasts or in general in public media is concerned, such information is published on an ongoing basis, and the senator has just referred to these publications, and they are provided by the media companies themselves. They shall be drawn up according to certain criteria, the time when representatives of the government, representatives of Parliament, representatives of political parties, trade unions and other important groups, associations, institutions are present, and this shall be made public, including the members of the National Media Council. It's very up-to-date, and we all have access to it, and we can use it. Therefore, the political parties represented in the National Media Council itself have an up-to-date overview of these statistics.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal, let me ask you a question. I would like to get your assessment of this huge discrepancy that is in the information programmes, especially in this broadcast, especially that if I were to recall your comments... I'll only call two. They, I think, give some kind of picture of your views, because you're avoiding that answer. One is that the public media are supposed to support the Polish right state, which is being implemented by the current government. Another statement: the media in the Polish People's Republic had more freedom than held on a short strip of media, as is currently commercial. Therefore, in this context, my question regarding your assessment of this imbalance is important, which is why I am asking you once again for your opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u90	If the senator asks about my personal assessment... [[As Chairman of the National Media Council...]] The National Media Council didn't deal with this, it didn't give an assessment on it, so I can't use the National Media Council's name to answer that question. I can tell you that statistics should always be taken a good look at, see what's behind it. In these statistics, it is often the case that the statements of government members are counted or given as... or added to the total number of speeches by the governing groups at a given time, right? So it's not just... If someone is acting as a representative of a given party, party X, but also if the government is created by party X, Y and Z, then anyone acting on behalf of the government, and not on behalf of the party, reporting any problems that the ministry is dealing with, can be counted as a political representative, and that would be a mistake. Therefore, such statistics should always be viewed well. I don't remember the ones you're talking about right now to analyze it. In general, I can tell you that when I watch different TVs, including public television, I feel that politics is far too much. I don't get the feeling that there's not enough of it, just too much of it, and I don't get the feeling that anyone who is active in the political forum is excluded from this TV debate. But that's my personal feeling. And if there are any curves here, of course it's a pathology that should be fought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u91	Thank you. Are they... Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One brief question about what the Minister said. You said in the last sentence that if there is a pathology in access, it should be combated. Do I draw the correct conclusion that the Minister says there is no pathology?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u93	Pathology is always in our lives. It's not like we have a perfect life. Such phenomena can always occur. They must be prevented. Yes, understand what I said, Senator. [[Then I have one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u95	Now I'm gonna ask you specifically if the Minister sees pathology when it comes to I'll quote you. "Accessibility, which was in August 2014 and August 2018'? I'm gonna read this book. The Minister probably knows them when he says you're getting the data. Does the minister think that what you're getting is normal or that it's pathology? That's what I'm asking. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: But what are you talking about?]] I'm talking about the political party access to antenna time in 3 stations: TVP Info, TVP1 and TVP2. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Could you quote these figures?]] In 2014... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: As I understand, in 2014, in your opinion, there was good availability and in 2018 there was bad. Yes or no?]] Minister, I will say this in the debate. It's about whether the Minister knows the data. And if he does, I'd like your opinion. Well, I'm not gonna... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Yes.]] Your marshal won't let me read for so long now. Right? I'll read it in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u96	I understand, but... you know, I have... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] If you don't mind, Marshal, I'll say one sentence. [[There you go, Mr. Chairman.]] Consider it a publicist's opinion, not a representative of the media council, because we have not taken a position on this matter. This will be the opinion of the media man, who has been functioning in these media for over half a century. In 2014 I had the impression that the TV debate would be limited to it, because it is as if the most visible part of our society is excluded. I don't feel that way in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u97	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you very much. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you kindly.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to report to the committee on the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2017 and on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council! Invited guests! All of you! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report by the Commission on 2 reports by 2 bodies: the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council. The Culture Commission has discussed these documents twice, at its meeting on 26 June 2018 and at its meeting on 9 July 2018. During committee meetings, the report was presented by both Mr Kołodziejski and Mr Czabański. As regards the report of the National Media Council, a separate opinion was expressed by a member of the National Media Council at the committee meeting, Mr Juliusz Braun. Following the presentation of the reports, the committee held a discussion. The elements that repeated during our debate today in the Senate were more or less reflecting the direction of the discussion that took place during the meeting of the two committees. At its meeting on 26 June, I proposed that the Senate Committee on Culture and Media adopt a report from the National Media Council. The vote took place, and in the course of the vote it turned out that the result was 3:3 and there were 3 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour of not accepting the report. There was therefore no settlement. The Rules of Procedure require the Committee on Culture and Media to present an opinion to the High House. Consequently, another meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place on 9 July and a vote took place. The committee recommends the adoption of the 2017 National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council to the High House with a majority of votes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that during discussions in the Committee on Culture there were also threads which differed from the content of the report. I would like to remind you that we are talking about 2017, and there have been issues and issues that concerned the earlier period. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we as parliamentarians, especially those who are for a few term of office, have become a bit accustomed to the fact that, in principle, it was the National Radio and Television Council that was the body which, as a whole, as a constitutional body, supervised this subject and was responsible for procedures in the field of electronic media, including actively involved in the creation of supervisory boards and authorities of public media companies. As we know, this has been changed in this term of office and at the moment we have a new body of the National Media Council, which has taken over these matters from the National Radio and Television Council. That's why you need... That is why we are considering 2 reports and there are 2 presidents who report on this issue. On my side, that's all. Once again, I would like to stress that the Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the Senate adopt the report for 2017 both the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u99	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u100	Did Mr. Julius Braun justify And if so, it's like What's your separate opinion? [[Louder please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u101	Yes, during the committee meeting, Dr. Juliusz Braun justified his doubts. Just so we're clear, I quote his words. On the proper establishment of supervisory boards in public media. And he expressed his separate opinion in this regard. In principle, this was mostly what he said at the committee meeting. He was referring to the period... Let me remind you, because maybe not everyone remembers that the Constitutional Tribunal questioned the solutions regarding the system and the way in which the authorities were created, the statutory authorities in public media. After that sentence... I can't remember what the sequence was, anyway the bill was changed. Thus, the Constitutional Tribunal referred to a situation which did not exist. Mr Juliusz Braun presented this thread in his separate vote, except that it also did not concern the matter of this report, and for a very simple reason it was referring to events from 2.5 years ago, so certainly not from 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u102	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem. First of all, I will refer to the report of the National Media Council because I was surprised by this report. It is very difficult for me to assess the activities of the National Media Council on the basis of the report presented here, because 85% , or maybe even more, its contents are resolutions establishing programme councils of the Polish Radio and its off-road companies and resolutions establishing presidents of public television, regional public television companies and all radio companies. This is for us, senators, information. These are resolutions listing the names and dates of the appointment. That's it. The decisions of an information nature shall be clearly legible to the recipient of the report. We also have here 2 statements stating that the constitution ensures freedom of the press and other social media. These statements are worrying about the aggressive behaviour and attacks of some politicians on Polish Television, i.e. public television. However, we do not find here a single statement about public television attacks on some politicians, about breaking information in the Polish Television's public programs, about electronic copying of a guest invited to talk to the heart of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, without informing this person about the kind of action that took place, illegal and violating her personal goods. I did not find a condemnation of Mr Ziemkiewicz either. I am talking about the reporting year. Or Mrs. Cucumber for the anti-Semitic statements that fell in their broadcasts on public television, for the words full of hate that flowed from the screen. And so I ask, why or why do we need such a National Media Council? Secondly, the Council may, within its powers, formulate opinions and positions from which nothing results in practice. Both her opinions and resolutions are not by anyone, I would say, implemented. This advice, as it writes, has no supervisory powers other than the possibility of dismissing persons acting on boards of companies. This is basically what the National Radio and Television Council has always done and done. Besides, most of the things the National Media Council does are the National Radio and Television Council, which has its responsibilities. So there's an obvious duplication of what the National Radio and Television Council is doing in a certain range. Thirdly, I would like to say about the list of interventions that have been reported to the National Media Council in the report on pages 17 and 18. Most of these interventions, and are cited several dozens of them, relate to abuse and false, lying information on government television, i.e. TVP SA. And there are examples of these programs in this information: TVP Info, the Voronica programme 17 These complaints are dominated by the lack of respect for pluralism, disregard for some important social events, such as the unworldly successes and participation of the world's citizens in the charity action of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, the absolute disregard for this phenomenon, the events that take place once a year, is emphasized. Interventions talk about the violation of the Act on Radio and Television in the programmes of Polish Television and Polish Radio, about the non-execution of statutory competences in some cases by the National Council of Radio and Television towards private media grossly violating the Act on Radio and Television, relate to content issued in programs such as.In four eyes on 3 October 2017 and many others. And I'm asking you, what? Where there is at least one mention in the report of the impact of the National Media Council, of some achievements in connection with the intervention, of its effectiveness. There is not a single paragraph in this report on any solutions. The report merely mentions that the Council had correspondence with the Prime Minister, Ministers, TVP Board and other bodies, but there is not a single word, not a single mention of whether, in any of these cases, the National Media Council managed to settle something, obtain an answer to the allegations, show how it worked, or simply inform that some of the authorities to which it addressed had confused the matter and nothing was settled. We hear it all the time... I would like to ask: have any of you heard or read about the fact that the council has taken a stand on kicked-out, spat-in women on the march of nationalists or intervened in such a matter that the media of the world have shown, objectively reported events from this march, and public television has shown events in a limited way so that the effect of unfavorable actions is as small as possible? So I ask you, what pluralism, objectivity and journalistic integrity, which is written about at the beginning of the report, can be said here at all, since we have television, which citizens call government, even though it should be civil or public. What does the National Media Council do to be able to keep this pluralism and this name public television? I would also point out that in the composition of this council in a political sense And that's why I'm saying it's a political council. The council, which is five members, is three members, including the chairman, from the ruling option, 1 person is from the PO, I do not know which option Mr. Igorny belongs to or does not belong to at all, but I do not get into it because it is 1 person. Finally, the Council itself concludes that it has no legislative competence, cannot submit draft laws, legislative amendments, propose amendments, etc. I'll give you an example. I called it in at the cultural committee meeting. We work and operate according to the Act on Radio and Television, which contains the provisions on the establishment of programme councils and on the proportions that should be applied. As a result of the various movements of politicians and their promotions or appeals, we have e.g. on the TVP Polonia programme board, the president, who was the Deputy Minister of National Defence and is now head of the Prime Minister's office, we have a Deputy Minister, a representative of the government, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has the supervision of... [[Time.]] ...over TVP Polonia and co-finances... Now he's out of this position. And we have on the board a representative of the foundation, which has a lot to do with initiating certain programs needed by this foundation on TVP Polonia. So we just have government representatives on the program board itself. In the meantime, the idea of setting up programme councils was that it was supposed to be advice made up of professionals, journalists, people of culture and creators. And here, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to change, as a representative of the National Media Council informed me, because the Act states that members of the Programme Councils are appointed for the entire term of office. But in the case of the Supreme Court, as it turns out, some laws can be introduced that change the term of office, dismiss the judges, send them to retirement, etc. And here... [[Senator, time.]] ...you look after yourselves closely. And the National Media Council has absolutely no influence on that. So I ask the question... I'm sorry to drag you out, but we're debating two reports. [[Yeah, but it's the same time, Senator.]] I know. One more minute, Mrs. Marshal. I'm almost done. [[But you've been performing for 12 minutes.]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. [[I'm gonna have to ask you one last sentence...]] Finally, I would like to ask you why we need such a National Media Council, created as a political body for a person or person, but not for improving public media, to say a few words about the National Radio and Television Council. I'm not gonna talk about any of my reservations and stuff, but... and I'm not an admirer or a supporter, but I think the only organ in this situation... I'm talking about the National Media Council. All these tasks that the National Media Council has adopted or duplicated are tasks that the National Radio and Television Council has carried out and carried out. And all these competences should be left to it. A body called the National Media Council is a completely unnecessary body. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Mr. George Fedorovich to speak. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Well, of course, I'm chairing this committee, but I've also been vice-president of the Sejm committee for years, and we have adopted many of these reports. It took place according to the rules, there were many questions, of course they all, and also the answers to them, are available because they are in the protocols. But mostly we talked about the fact that there is no more media. I mean. We, from the opposition, talked about the fact that there are no public media anymore, that there are political media. Anyway, I was talking about it, too, and I'm about to prove it. First of all, on the National Media Council, I would like to quote parts of a separate sentence, because it is extremely important to the public, as it rains... That is, the reservation concerns the fact that the National Media Council in 2017 has so far done so. It did not carry out its basic, practically the only specific obligation mentioned in the Act, namely the appointment of authorities of public media companies and the Polish Press Agency. In most radio companies there are boards and supervisory boards appointed by the Minister of Treasury 2,5 years ago on the basis of a law which the Constitutional Tribunal found to be contrary to the Constitution. So we are dealing with a situation where the vast majority of media companies have been set up in a way that is contrary to the constitution, and the National Media Council has not taken this case, despite repeated demands by both Mr Dwarf and mine. That's one thing. The second one concerned the absence of representatives of national and ethnic minorities in companies. So much for this report... I am not stopping on the report of the National Media Council specifically because it is such a strange creation, which was created apparently on political commission and it exists. Besides, when the project was created, we knew who would be the head of this council, and something like this in the history of Polish public media has never happened. There were different situations where it seemed that we were trying to make public as little as possible and depoliticize, but there was no such thing. Of course, we also adopted the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Now I'm gonna file a motion to reject both reports. I've prepared them, Mrs. Marshal, in writing. And I'm about to prove it... So the constitution says, in art. 213 that the National Radio and Television Council upholds freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. And now let's see if it's real. Well, I have a set here that we talked about at our committee meeting. I have a set, Mr. Chairman, of the subtitles that appeared on TV on the band in the news: "Donald Tusk gave the signal to attack Poland, the world is more interested in the president's atlas than in the protests of total opposition, total opposition in total... - Well, then... The shocking anti-polonism of Donald Tusk, the total hysteria of the total opposition, the government has already fulfilled almost all promises, the platform lies, wanting to return to power, the Civic Platform insults Poles, calling them fascists. Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry... I'm a member. The Civic Platform. There's this generalization that I should theoretically follow. As a citizen and as a man who fought for this freedom for Poland, you go to court and appoint a guy who writes such a thing, and you don't react to it. If you can prove that you have no obligation to respond to such things, I'll grant you that and I'll go to court myself. Now let's move on. Why do I demand to be rejected? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm getting... Of course, the media are free and no problem. We even tried to prepare our Ukrainian brothers at conferences for the model of public media. And the National Council, too. They held a meeting in the Senate and in the Polish Parliament, in which representatives of opposition and coalition took part, preparing people who lived in the totalitarian system to move to really public media. And now I'm in a situation where the former Member of the ruling party is writing an article... Of course, he's everywhere, and I'm the only one who wants to quote him for the public, and so that the Seym protocol can have it for the archives on the table. Here you go: journalists of Polish Television became simply party officers who beat the opposition politicians on their heads and praise all activities of the PiS. The main edition of the news became a travesty of the information service and unreflectively exercised power without maintaining any standards. It is the diary of Rzeczpospolita. Public television journalists on their Twitter or Facebook accounts attack without a pardon and rude politicians from the PO or the Modern... I'm the witness. I was invited to a political debate on the presentation and a young journalist who had no idea about running the program at all, talked about Amber Gold all the time, and he was helped by members of the governing coalition. That's the truth. I haven't shown up on public television since. Although I'm saying that back when I was in the government coalition, I was afraid to go to public television. Which was theoretically ours because journalists attacked me so thoroughly and sharply as so-called. A man of power. Besides, I protected them later, as a good change came. And then, the president of TVP runs for instructions on Nowogrodzka. And this is the coolest thing: The media is supervised by three members of the PiS, and every social group that gets into a dispute with the authorities becomes the object of media chase in the worst Peerel style. And that's where I want to end with the hope that this may not happen in the future. And I would also like to remind you that in this article... I wasn't supposed to say this, but I'm going to help you, but I'm gonna help you. And what's more, it seems that their dumb propaganda, that's the Course, that's the thing that's more damaging than serving the government: because it discourages more and more people, even those who admit to voting for the PiS in 2015. The brutality and impertinence of serving the camp of power is so obvious that it discourages from supporting the PiS by moderate and educated voters. What I wish for and Poland. [[Applause]] Now let me introduce you, Mrs. Marshal, both... [[...proposals.]] ...proposals for rejection. I understand that then there will be a meeting of my committee... [[I'd like you to sign this, please.]] Signature? Oh, I didn't sign it. Now, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u106	Here, let me get you a pen. Sign here, please. [[Thank you. Can I sit down?]] Please. Already? Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go. [[I'm taking it, I'm taking it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u107	And this. I'll pay you back... [[Thanks.]] ...tool. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mrs. Marshal! Dear Our guests from the National Council and the National Media Council! At first, I would like to refer to those issues that I asked about during the discussion of the President of the National Radio and Television Council, which I believe exists only because it is enshrined in the Constitution. Because it probably would have been solved when we sat at night, if it hadn't been written in the constitution... But it still is. And it would be worth considering today whether it really serves what is written in the Constitution and what Senator Fedorowicz said, whether it really serves the public, or whether it really serves the freedom of the media in Poland, this National Council of Radiophony and Television. As far as the National Media Council is concerned, she was actually created in a hurry. This bill was bad, and you can see it today. He has little competence, little responsibility for things, and it's actually hard to judge anything here. As Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka said, in this report we have only some resolutions and generalities. But you could think about it. And maybe someday he's gonna give it to the cultural committee, because today we're not gonna have enough time for that. How is it possible that the competition for the head of Polish Television is being held, the application of the current President is brought after 4:00 p.m. because it was supposed to be after 4:00 p.m. and it wasn't controlled by the National Media Council, it just says that it was kind of out of its scope, because it was somewhere... some kind of administration office... and it was accepted. I remind you of the previous competitions, when it was monitored, when there were public hearings, when it was known to which and where it was submitted, etc. And today we have this situation that we're basically going to be able to say There's an investigation at the D.A.'s office about this at the moment. That maybe the clerk neglected something or something. In fact, no authority will be responsible for this, and it should be responsible. This investigation will probably be terminated, like more and more investigations in our country. This is the 2017 report. I asked myself about these studies, Mr President, about the objectivity of public television and public radio. You didn't answer that question, but I found it on the National Council website. It appears that the tender took place in April 2017. These studies have already been done by the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow. You do not want to make these studies available to us or describe them in your report. Why? What do these tests contain? I hope very quickly, in a week's time, as you promised, I'll get it. What does this research say that you don't want to make it public for so long? What do they contain? Do they confirm the objectivity of public television? Well, I doubt it. I think you are hiding these studies, because these studies show exactly what we are talking about here today, which is the lack of objectivity of public media. I will now talk about this country's theory of media pluralism in Poland, which is also often discussed by President Kurski. If, I don't know, e.g. TVN or Polsat, or Superstation or any other medium, has some favorite political option, public television is supposed to balance it. Yes? If they're there, for example. The enemy of the current government, the public television is to defend the government, etc., so that there is some pluralism and balance. And we often hear, even from our colleagues here in the courtroom, that we finally have a balance, because all those media are broadcasting to the government, and public television is defending our government. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This public television is supposed to be objective, it's supposed to be pluralistic, and it's supposed to present different views. You have this state in the bill. And you should stand by it. If you don't do it, it means you're expendable bodies, and one, and the other organ, really. I would like to give you a few examples. The things we're dealing with right now are extraordinary things. We have situations like this. censoring broadcasts in the media. Are you even reacting to this? Last time it was a broadcast from the gala, Smarzowski's joke was cut out. The transmissions are being made with a delay of a dozen minutes... [[Just in case.]] ...just in case... It's just like the communes, really, just late so you can cut out what you can. You even censored the police spokesperson's statement, which happened a while ago, probably last week. Public television has a terrible HR policy. Robert Janowski has recently left TV. The ratings are down from 1.86 million... An average of 1,860,000 people watched Mr. Janowski's show and Mr. Norbie's show was watching 1,16 million. Let's see how much the ratings have fallen, what is the activity to the detriment of the company. I'm talking about staffing. [[To Kurski's...]] The case of Jack Kurski's competition and this prosecution investigation, which is very long-lasting, with lewdness, as I said... This is extremely scandalous. I say this not to the National Council or to the State, but to the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office. It's been going on for so long and there's still no way to decide whether the President is legally appointed or illegally. Let me remind you of this last video on Polish Television... You were talking about satirical programs here. Just explain to us why this satire, a flogging satire in public media, in Polish Television, concerns only opposition. Why don't you make fun of the rulers, like satire used to do? Satire is from flogging those who have power, not the opposition. The state flogging those who have power... You even defame people, lower their value in the eyes of the audience, as was the case with Mrs Magdalena Klim, the so-called. Rudy, about which the animated film was posted in the Polish Television, scandalous, insulting at all any rules. If you had also posted such a video about one of the ministers or rulers, it would be okay, but you're flogging only the opposition, not the ruling people. What do you say, for example? Did the editor Ziemkiewicz compare genocide in death camps with tests in Volkswagen involving humans and monkeys? What do you say you allow President Kursk to hire such people? What do you say, e.g. that Polish Television hates the European Union? That Polish Television hates Germans? I can hydrate it. I could read here forever. Besides, the contents of some stripes were quoted by Senator Fedorovich. What do you say that Dominika ciosić, a correspondent in Brussels, writes that the law does not work backwards, instructs the European Commission that the law does not work backwards. It is in this case that the European Commission defends the freedom of Polish courts that the law does not work backwards. And Mrs. Dominika ciosic tweets about it. It's so embarrassing, it's so funny... This is a tragedy, this is a comedy. It's just that. This is the reversal of all concepts, the reversal of values, the reversal of truth and falsehood, the reversal of what is ridiculous, and what is serious. You're doing this for public money. Public television, the state, is to protect it. I don't care what any private TV does, Ladies and gentlemen, so that it doesn't offend religious feelings, etc. But I don't want to be insulted by the Polish Television all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of Belsat TV... Well, this case from a few days ago... [[Time, Senator.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. The head of Belsat TV kicks out a journalist for publishing on his profile a photo posted by President Trump's firm. This is an extraordinary situation. It's about this picture of President Trump sitting next to our President Duda. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Official photo posted, Ladies and gentlemen, on the social network of the President of the United States. You can't put a picture like that in there? Is that what the journalist's getting kicked out for? What are these standards? I'll allow myself to be extended in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u108	No, Senator. I'm offering five minutes. [[The other five minutes?]] Yeah, so we can stick to the time. [[Right away?]] No, sir, after you, senator. [[Yeah, that's what I'm saying, yeah.]] I'll write you down for another five minutes. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council! In fact, I should give up my speech and argue with the state, because such nonsense, some anecdotes, attacks on Mr. Kurski or on various televisions... Well, this is not appropriate during the debate on the report of the National Council and the National Media Council. Well, I'm not gonna argue with the previous speakers not to bring this debate to the parliament's mouth, because today Maybe not for the first time, but again I met the fact that there are people in the Senate who behave like Modern in the Seym. I'm going to the point. In fact, 2017 was the first year in which we received a full report on the full term of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council. And both of these reports contain a lot of information on the implementation of the different tasks. In the case of the National Radio and Television Council, these were tasks related to the conduct of very numerous concession proceedings, control over the activities of broadcasters, the fixing and distribution of subscription fees, the fixing of concession fees, the organisation of international cooperation, and many, many, many other tasks. Speaking of these concession tasks, I noted that in the reporting year, the National Radio and Television Council did probably titanium work because it issued 244 concession decisions and 15 decisions to impose financial penalties on broadcasters and to impose such a penalty... Well, it's connected to a very long process, observation, etc. I will also say that to carry out missionary tasks by public broadcasters, which also requires very careful work, the National Radio and Television Council distributed more than PLN 1 billion, including 697 million of licence receipts collected by the Polish Post, and the remainder for compensation for revenue lost in the years 2010 and 2017. Lost as a result It's a reminder. That in November 2007 the subscription fee collection system was dismantled by the leader of the Civic Platform, Donald Tusk. I will remind him of his words: "We want to eliminate the scandalous tribute of subscription. And then, there are no illusions: public media have their owner, it is the state. So first of all, they need to be weakened to the maximum so that they are not the dream prey for the ruling team. It was these words and subsequent actions that resulted in a drastic decline in the revenues from the subscription, and thus also contributed to the large commercialisation of public television. Because there's no doubt that to survive, she also needs to look for advertising resources and so on. Speaking of the National Media Council. I do not want to join this choir of criticism, because it is unwarranted criticism, but I remember that the National Media Council has committed itself to speeding up the work on the subscription law, and above all to fulfilling of its numerous statutory tasks, to which it is necessary to appoint members of supervisory boards, management boards and programming boards, to undertake, so to say, to pursue technological changes, to develop the Internet, to change the functioning of public media, to reorganise them. It's about what's called what I'm going to say in general, slogan, public media reform. I don't know if anything has been done in this direction. There has been a lot of talk in the Parliamentary debate. Less, of course, in the Senate, even though those words were also spoken. The Law and Justice charged the rulers of various sins about the possession of public media. But I'm gonna tell you straight. It doesn't just apply to public media. It is the commercial media that have been entirely embezzled by the opposition. It's like we're forgetting this... media is no longer the fourth power, media is the first power. It's not like he defined it in the 19th century. Thomas Macaulay, that's fourth power. After all, today the media often almost make laws and pass judgments, influence the rulers, that is, they exercise actual authority, there is nothing to hide. Let me remind you that a statistical Pole spends about 130 minutes every day watching TV, and on Sundays 4 hours, that for many of them it is the only source of information. So, to put it bluntly, any television can change the awareness that someone black will consider to be white and vice versa. Well, that's the truth, who has television, who has power, this society can develop, strengthen, but also vice versa, can destroy people's minds and lie. And here I will remind you that you do what you would once called a celebrity to young people, only that the idea is included but listen to me. Not every recipient is aware of the fact that there is even a permanent war on him. I am talking about drawing the attention of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council to increase vigilance in television and radio programmes, and I am specifically referring to the huge increase in the number of play and music programmes today. Excellent mediocre and American writer Neil Postman in his book "Fun to Death" included a warning to the contemporary media, which directed their programs to the frenzy of fun, which supposedly allows man to free himself from various complexes, from inhibitions, but actually enslaves him, blocks the full understanding of the most important phenomena and life problems. Literally, this method could be taken as a code for freedom drunks. The point is that freedom is the value of such a high rank that it cannot become a bargaining chip in propaganda, advertising or art. Media expert Fr. Bishop Adam Lepa claims that if the public is implanted into a deep belief that freedom is intoxicated, they will be able to accept any substitute for freedom and, in time, even its caricature, will convince others to accept it and then, with the support of appropriate advertising, any self-will, even leading to anarchy, will find numerous supporters. So since most of the media in Poland are in the hands of liberal and left-wing communities, each model of freedom from these environments will at least arouse interest and satisfy the need for some novelty. However, there is no freedom without limits, i.e. a freedom that allows everything and justifies everything. Lying to freedom enslaves a man. Not for nothing is said that the media love the naive, which is the most effective effect on those in whom intellectual inquisitiveness is not the strongest side. Also, the dependence of an individual on a medium is the result of the fact that the content published by the individual always perceives it as a good coin, without any attempt to evaluate and select. [[Time!]] I'm almost done. I am directing these reflections to the National Council of Radiophony and the National Media Council in order to draw attention also to the fact that the recipient is more critical of the thoughts, opinions, views that are being promoted in the media. The National Radiophony Council must not limit its research to view radio broadcasts and television programmes only for violation of the law. I am far from censoring TV or radio broadcasts, but she should draw attention to certain facts that raise doubts and concerns. For example: many commercial media do not talk about the nation, their homeland, Christian values or patriotism, or there is not enough content in the media to mobilise audiences to engage for the common good and encourage creative activity, while promoting negative patterns of human behavior and attitudes. These are a few ideas for new tasks, or actually a study of the National Radio and Television Council, which should be undertaken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u110	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Bobko. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I, too, would actually like to draw the attention of the honourable representatives of the National Council and the National Media Council to perhaps one more task that could have been involved in the public media mission, and perhaps should have been included, but it is not possible to refer to the discussion that has taken place here before. Maybe just a word, because once that there is little time, and two that we are living at this moment during the election campaign and this time certainly does not favour a serious, calm discussion about media objectivity. I will just repeat what I said in the question: that public media should be required more than others. The issue of objectivity of public media is a very difficult and subtle matter. In today's world, in which modern culture even blurs the concept of truth and objectivity, more and more, especially in the young generation, we are soaked in the fact that objective truth is something ancient, there are only different narratives and actually the power of narrative is decisive. This cultural element certainly makes it difficult to take on the subject of objectivity. Also the media structure, the ownership structure of the media in Poland, as one of the colleagues mentioned here, is an element that cannot be overlooked in the discussion about objectivity. One could hope that this initiative, which was born somewhere in this discussion, so that the Senate committee could take such a subject calmly, would perhaps be a promising initiative, although I do not know how far it will be possible to do so. But I see a problem with public media. And respecting the voice of a colleague, however, these critical voices of colleagues from the opposition, critical to the current state of objectivity in public media, so that I do not underestimate. There's something to think about. But I would like to draw your attention to another matter. She, in my opinion, does not actually appear in public discussion at all. But if we're talking about a public media mission... Isn't it part of a public mission, public media, some kind of reflection, some kind of thought, I'd say, thinking about how to raise journalists, who is a journalist today, in the modern world? This profession was born for good about 200 years ago. For the first century of the press, journalistic ethos were something special, protected, with high standards. What about recruiting a journalist today? What does it look like to prepare journalists? This is the topic that I am also interested in, because journalists generally leave universities, from universities. There they should gain competence, there they should also gain some established values. And then they go to you, to the media, and what conditions are created for them, even working conditions? There is much talk about working conditions of residents, doctors, working conditions of teachers, academic teachers. Do we even ask about the working conditions of journalists, especially young journalists? They, according to my limited view, but I was a little interested... I would ask him to include this in his next report. Because according to my knowledge, a huge number of journalists in the local media, but also in the public, work, there's nothing to hide. Just on the basis of rubbish contracts, works contracts, no stability. Often the peak of their dreams is to get some part of the job, even after several decades of work and functioning in a situation completely unstabilized in terms of living and working life. What, then, is required of these journalists? And is it possible to talk about free media, about serious media, which would even carry out this mission, which a colleague here at the end of the speech spoke beautifully about The mission to promote certain values, to fight against other values, but not in the sense of censorship, just in the sense of promoting other, better values? Can we give these tasks to people who live with a sense of ad hocity, unstabilization in the financial context and in the context of those conditions which normally provide simply the labour code and the employer's contract with the employer? Here, to my knowledge, these standards do not exist at all. And unfortunately, public media from private media do not differ in this respect. Speaking of missions, let's add that it is the public media that should think about it and put the task of raising journalists After all, they can go to different places, including private media. In any case, the issue of professional development is extremely important, and here we have, in my opinion, a completely free American. In a bad way. So, in short, there's something to think about. If the term "mission of public media" is not to be a completely delineated slogan Unfortunately, it seems a little like that and today very few people take this public media mission seriously... But if there is a lot of public money going to do that, And we are wondering, also in the context of perhaps a new law, which, for various reasons, does not exist... If more public funds are to be designated for public media, then this educational element for journalists, in my opinion, should clearly appear, because without independent, competent, wise journalists, the media will not fulfil their mission in any way. They're just gonna be a little bit like what's going on right now, knocking out the eardrums in this... Oh, I'm not going to develop it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u112	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u113	Thank you very much for the voice of Senator Bobka... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? [[Please continue, Senator.]] You're welcome, fellas, to continue. Thank you very much, sir, for that balanced voice. I also know from the round talks that some of you share a lot of our comments about public media and their current shape. Unfortunately, what Senator Fedorovich said, using as one of the newspapers thick words: "The dull propaganda..." But it's hard to call it that. What we're dealing with now in public media is blunt propaganda. Of course, somewhere on the radio, here and there, things are getting a little bit better, too. But the worst part is actually on public television, in information programs. And since the senator was just talking about the ethos of journalism, the fact that he's going down, etc., I'd like to say that the worst thing that the president of Kurski TV has done is that the most outstanding journalists have left. They went to other media, now they're working there, and they're gone from TV, and there's new people who really don't even have anyone to learn from and follow the president's orders, thinking he's a media expert. No, Mr. President is not a media expert, unfortunately he is not an expert in reliable journalism. President Kurski, however, is probably the guru of propaganda cultivated in Poland at the moment. And he is, I remind you, the author of this maxim, the rule that the dark people will buy it. This is how television works at the moment, hoping that these various kinds of viewers, as Senator Ryszka described it, are not always the most intellectually inquisitive... Well, unfortunately, they will be the victims of this dumb propaganda, Mr. Senator, which we're dealing with on TV. But not just propaganda, because we're dealing with censorship, which I've proven. That's what those examples were for. We are dealing with manipulations of all kinds, we are dealing with incredible bias on television. That's what I was talking about: mostly the ruling rations. We are dealing with the slandering of the opposition, Mr Fedorowicz, and we are dealing with the intimidation of journalists. Journalists carry out TV programs as if under order, under imaginary expectations. And that's how we get this embarrassing level. It can't be that every day after the main news, an interview is held on the lap with someone from the government who doesn't ask the most important questions. These are interviews with the Prime Minister, interviews with the President. It's all done on your knees. Ministers are not questioned about problems, questions are given to them on a platter so that they boast of success. You can't really see that. Plus, ladies and gentlemen, there's debt and money coming out of the budget. This is amazing. It is not only that President Kurski is incompetent and public television is in terrible condition when it comes to the content of journalistic matters, content matters, programming issues, etc., but we are still dealing with a bad manager who has indebted television, who draws money out of the budget, borrows money and spends it with a light hand. I'm not gonna talk about these computer orders anymore, these laptops, all kinds of... stuff that's being written about right now. The worst part is what happens in the minds of the viewers. What this TV is spitting into your mind with propaganda. That's what I'm talking about, and it's very dangerous. It's anti-Unionism, it's been on TV for the second year of anti-EU propaganda. It means that our greatest enemy at this moment is the European Union. Not Russia, not any other country... The European Union is at the moment our worst enemy. Our... [[And Germany.]] Yes. And the Germans. Germany, with which we have the greatest economic cooperation, is also our biggest enemy. I would like to point out that this is against national interest. It's really starting to be propaganda, which is dangerous for the country. That's what I'm paying attention to. [[Time, Senator. It's been five minutes.]] I would like to say that I hope that there will be such a board of directors, the next board, which will perhaps be better, who will draw up a white book of all this, and that we will never return to the kind of TV that can remind us of, is television from the times of the Polish People's Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my God...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u114	Please, Mr. Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Gentlemen of Ministers! I will begin by referring to what Professor Bobko and Senator Ryszka said. Professor, I'm gonna say that I'm signing with both hands what the Professor said. The work of a journalist on public television should be the crowning thing in my dream It's a reporter's job. Everyone should have that purpose. I'm going through a lot of hard times working in different media, and then when I get to a workshop, when I become the carrier of these ideas... I agree with Senator Bobka here that public television... I'm talking to her because I don't want to talk about the radio. When you shut down my beloved Troy's editorial team, I stopped listening to the public radio at all, because it doesn't make any sense. There's no point hearing about bad relations with the Germans and how we represent business here. ...and everything that was raining out of the senate bleachers. That's why, Professor, I think, maybe it's worth thinking about. It's also an appeal to the senator. Perhaps, at the end of our term of office, we could create such a draft law of the House of Reflection on what is public journalism, who is calling these bodies, etc.? The point is that public television should not become the prey of politicians, but that it should be a carrier of values and ideas that need to be spread in Poland. Not the anti-German ones, not the anti-pulse ones, not the anti-opposition ones. Senator Ryszka began his speech by saying that it is difficult for him to listen to this nonsense. Well, it's hard to accept such a language, Mr. Senator Ryszka. How are we supposed to talk about something when you say what the opposition says is bullshit? To convince you, Senator Ryszka, that you are wrong, I would like to give you some wonderful quotes from the stripes. This is a classic of journalism in the Republic of Poland today, gentlemen of Ministers. I will also quote Mr Czabański, for me the great man of Solidarity, the man of war for all that is called free Poland. And I'd also like to ask you a rhetorical question. I didn't ask that in the debate, so now I'm gonna ask. I would like to hear from you, Minister, if this is the Poland you fought for, did you imagine that the public media for the state, our money would slander the opposition, would defame the European Union, would defame the highest values that should be protected in Poland? A Nation That Doesn't Respect Authority You can sometimes disagree with them. He's dying. You've stopped showing authority. Now we have authority according to the PiS classification. I can respect them and respect them... It's hard for me to argue with authority, I don't feel like authority. But let's get back to the bullshit that Senator Ryszka was talking about. Maybe you're not watching public television... Asking Minister Czabanski here... I feel like you don't even read those reports you're getting. In your speech, when you persuaded us to support the bill, he said that it would be television. It's pluralistic. I am about to show this pluralism based on research in Poland today and in 2014. But first, let's have a few wonderful quotes from our most beautiful psychic. Public television in Poland I'll show you. Here are the stripes. Ewa Kopacz praises those women who, instead of preparing Christmas, stand before the Sejm. I have lived in Poland for a long time and I remember what Peerelowska said in Poland. That's an exact quote... And that's what the young man said. How does he know that? Well, someone told him that. Minister Czabanski certainly didn't tell him, I promise. But there are some people out there who say what others have to say. And further, even better: Brussels... You know, 'cause who's our enemy? Imaginary Brussels. Brussels Spaniards lets us fight people and forbids us to fight the printer's bark. Well, look how beautiful it is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and ecological, and so much for wisdom. But this isn't the best. I turned down the best ones so as not to cause some sort of... street revolt in a way to bring Islamic immigrants to Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, really, Orwell himself wouldn't have come up with that. Orwell wrote that a lie is supposed to be true, that a lie equals the truth. The state on public television has pierced it, you've pierced it, and you're better than Orwell. But let's go back to these wonderful quotes from the stripes shown on public television. Aggression and Rudeness We'll remember that from today's manifestation. Isn't it beautiful? Solor's friends advise... It's about how the Civic Platform meeting was. Solor's friends advise on how to overthrow the legitimate government. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, that's great. Well, you can't... This is, Professor, the peak of journalism of the Republic of Poland in public media. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the bottom and now it can only be better. It's the only thing... Today, at universities that teach journalists, it is necessary to show: what should not be in life if you are a journalist. And at the end of those quotes, I left what often annoys you. I'm talking about the Law and Justice policies. I'm talking about the awards. Well, that's a beautiful graph. During the Platform, PLN 625 million were paid out. Of course, it was no longer added that all the employee awards were included, because this strict management was paid out within 8 years, if I remember correctly. 700,000 zlotys. And the second post: public television. I know, it is often the case that journalists who have great skills regarding Polish language have little knowledge of mathematics and do not know that 1.5 million is less than 625 million. That 1 is less than 27. So... There is a post: only PLN 1.5 million paid out by Prime Minister Szydło to all those who were connected with the titanium work. What did NIK do? Recently he examined it and it turned out that it was not PLN 1.5 million, but PLN 8.5 million. Darlings, this isn't journalism. It is as Senator Ryszka said: who has television, he has power. And there is a country in Europe that has similar television, but I think I will tell them to come to Poland to study. This TV is called Russia Today. And why do I say that? My friend, who I studied with in high school, went to Moscow for good results. And at the reunion we had last year, he says, "Leszek, you know what? I'm living déjà vu! I feel like Moscow! I'm turning on the TV, I'm watching, and this is Moscow broadcasting! In Polish! I'm looking, and this is TVP Info! Yeah, something amazing. How can you fool your own people like that? And now these numbers show... Thank God Poles in their wisdom began to see less and less. . data from August TVP1's daily share fell to 7.6%. That's a loss in a year of almost 10%. But what's important? Virtual Media compiles and shows that in the so-called. in the commercial group of 16 and 49 years, the decrease is almost 15%. So young Poles say: "Dear, you can tell each other stories. We know what the truth looks like. They're looking for that truth somewhere else. And is that the role of the media? And we have two institutions, so serious: the National Media Council... I propose to change its name to the Council of the Media of Law and Justice, it more reflects its character. Because the name must be associated with what he does... So if it says "wine," then we know there's wine, not spirit. So if we have the National Media Council, then... Are these messages for the citizens of the Republic of Poland? No, these are party messages. And now, regarding this pluralism I'm in a hurry to make time to say this: the same Virtual Media made a list that they put on the Internet. Yesterday, Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Internet knowledge is uncertain, that you have to have your own, so to speak. The available sources and then they are true. So maybe it's a lie because it's from Virtual Media, which they're comparing, what it looked like. And I would like to read this quickly, especially to Mr Czabanski. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] Dear Minister, in 2014 in TVP Info the time schedule was the following... [[There's not much time.]] That's because I'm the last one, I'll ask for five minutes. [[There you go.]] Oh, thank you. Now I'm off with the last five minutes. Civic Platform: 15% Time, PiS 16%. But the exceedance was genuinely on TVP1: Platform, 47%, PiS, 38%. So if we're following the principle that the size of the rulers is respect for minorities, This general principle of highly qualified democracy Well, we can see that it's actually out of line here, it should be at least equal. Although TVP2 had 36% to 44% in favour of Law and Justice. But it came in 2018, which is the realization of what the Minister was talking about... So that I do not misquote here: we will create these media so that television, media are pluralistic and serve citizens. I've already told you about this service, and I'm about to say one more sentence. And now about this pluralism. 2018 August: Civic Platform 10% time; PiS, without these great outbuildings, I apologize for the term, i.e. those 2 other parties. 65%. Well, that's the rule, Minister... 1 is bigger than 27, 6 is bigger than 100, 65 is smaller than 10. TVP1 is better, we have 12% Audio time, but PiS is 77%. If anyone knows the proportions, it's easy to count... And TVP2. We're not invited there: Platform 5% , PiS 81%. And the latest data... Data were provided for January 2018 and again: Law and Justice, without Prime Minister Gowin's party and without Minister Ziobra's party. 67.6% antenna time; Civic Platform 10,3%; Kukiz 5,4% Well, I guess PSL is your main enemy, because it's 0.4%. It shows that this pluralism, equal access... I'm not talking about the opposition's advantage anymore, I'm talking about equal access. That's what the National Media Council needed... I'll call the classic, who has television, who has power. And the older classic said: dictatorship needs propaganda, especially media propaganda. I don't know why, all of it, when it comes to what public television is supposed to be for, and who is it supposed to be for. Surely, Professor, not to implement beautiful ideas, to crown the work of a journalist, to select the best staff, to create the best conditions. Hence my appeal, once again, to the senator of the committee, Fedorovich, that perhaps it would be worth... As the House of Reflection, let us leave this proposal, see what will be done. And the last sentence. Asking the Minister... The Minister said: I have the impression that it is better than it was. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: It is.]] And there's always the question: what station is this interview for? So it feels like it's better than it used to be... I'm sorry, Minister, but you didn't talk to law and justice officers, you said that in public space. These figures and facts show, Minister, that it is not better than it was, but I agree with you that you feel that way. Because in politics, when you don't respect your opponent... He taught me this classic in college: remember, when you have dictatorial tendencies, the impression is more important than the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u116	Thank you, Senator. Does Mr Witold Kołodziejski, Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, want to speak again? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: No...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes or no? [[Talking in the O.R.]] You want to speak. Yes? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, to these questions, which were directly...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, some of the questions were detailed and I will answer them in writing. As for the questions I'm supposed to answer right now, I... Senator, I told you I'd give you an answer within a week, and I'm not sending you an analysis. This is a few hundred pages we're working on. It's not some mythical study, it's not to demonize their character and influence. The National Council does such analyses every year, i.e. monitoring and analysis of the implementation of financial and programme plans, e.g. selected programs, this is probably 6 TV and radio programs. We do it every year. In 2017, conducted, developed... Analysis in 2018 so in the report will be further in 2018... In fact, as far as the whole is concerned, the great majority of today's discussion was not about the report of the National Radio and Television Council, but about the activities of the public broadcaster, or actually only one company, i.e.Polish Television SA. I'll quote the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 of the Radio and Television Act: State bodies may decide on the activities of public broadcasting units only in the cases provided for by the laws. This is very limited, ladies and gentlemen, power over the public broadcaster. Not much, a public broadcaster, like any other, has constitutional guarantees of independence. So this discussion, and especially the phrases that you've done it, you're doing it anyway... Ladies and gentlemen, it's not for the National Council, and certainly not... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and certainly not for the report. Where the National Council has opportunities, it works. For example, the example that the senator mentioned, these posts, the comparison of the height of the prizes. Here the National Council intervened because it was not true, it was possible to react on the basis of our law and we did so. We forgot the sender and the sender corrected it. Yes, thank you very much. We will answer these questions directly to the National Council in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind you that this was already a speech after the discussion was closed. Does the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, want to speak again? [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: If possible, one minute.]] Please. [[Jesus, Mary...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Questions about information were not actually there, but because the state used this discussion, according to the law, of course, to present some political thesis or, as Senator Fedorovich might have said, a political theatre Although he probably wouldn't have said it at his address, he'd be more likely to say it under mine. I'm the one who's gonna let the facts come to light, as Senator Czarnobaj has advocated. That's what I'm talking about. [[For those numbers, it's just...]] Please? [[Please respond to these numbers.]] Because the facts are as follows. The public media that you are now so in pain over were by a group, which some of you represent, systematically destroyed for many years and were destroyed by ... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And now...]] [[Senator Boris-Damięcka: We are home...]] I, uh... I didn't interrupt you. Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, the discussion is over. Let's let the president speak.]] I listened patiently to you and I didn't interrupt... [[Go ahead.]] ...I ask for reciprocity. First of all, the financial foundations of these media were destroyed. You are now talking about debt to public media, and this is the result of this destruction. And from my point of view, And don't think of it as part of your argument. The important thing is that real money began to come to the public media. This is much more important than the various criticisms that can always be given to individual programmes. Always. Any program can be better and should. But the most important thing for the future and for the present of public media is that they have large financial power, because it is in the social interest. Mr. Senator Fedorovich... [[I'm very listening, very cordially...]] ...you told us a tearful story about how you used to go on public television and you used to get haunted. If I were you, as a representative of that power, I would not only erase it, but I would treat it a lot more brutally, because you took the money from them, as I mentioned just now. You sent the employees of creative television... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Not you, it's a figure of speech. [[No, I'm not allowed to answer because it's over.]] It's a figure of speech. Don't take it personally. You sent the team to lease, you threw the creators out of the public media. And now you're saying we need to rebuild. That's what we're doing. We give money, we attract creators, we move from trash to normal deals. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ad vocem? [[It won't be long, because I have...]] From the bleacher or from the spot? [[I prefer the bleachers.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u121	I may not be able to come up with something as attractive as the Minister. [[Think about it.]] Mr. Marshal, thank you for your permission. Minister, we are talking about completely different things. I had no doubt that if you came out here, you'd have replicas that even made me dark in front of your eyes. Congratulations on that. I also remind you that when the Radio and Television Act was being prepared, I'd be the one who did it to you. I said quietly that you would be head of the National Media Council. And that's all right. We have our philosophy. All I care about is that television is really public. I used an example of my life. For eight years in power... I must say that public television journalists, which in theory belonged to the governing group, were in fact different, because the minister was also the head of the council then. They questioned me very carefully about what the government is doing, what Parliament is doing, etc. They were insightful. And now, as we can see from this discussion, television journalists are having these conversations on their knees. Mr Minister, we have indeed given more attention to matters that do not concern the report, but that is the need for a moment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u122	Thank you, Senator. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the draft resolution on the Report of the National Council of Radiophony and Television in 2017 and to the draft resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare the report. I propose that the Senate set a deadline for the committee to submit additional reports so that the third reading is still possible at this meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. I state that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I declare the session adjourned until 5 p.m. After adjournment, we will proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u123	The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the consideration of the requests submitted to the Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 together with information on the fundamental problems of radio and television in 2017 and on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017 will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the examination of offers for public tasks in the care of the Senate on Polonia and Poles abroad in 2018 will take place at 15.30 in room 182. Note: change of start time from 6:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 25 to 17 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u124	We're waiting for Minister Fly. I'm extending the break until 5:05 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 00 to 17 minutes 05]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. The text of the Act is contained in print No 942, and the report of the Commission In print No 942 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration a report on the meeting of this committee on 25 September this year, on which the Act on amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State was discussed. It is a law which was adopted by the Sejm. It was accepted, one can say unanimously, because 408 Members were in favour, no one was against, 2 abstentions. As far as this bill is concerned, in the Seym, it was considered to be the presentation of the President. There's a slight but fundamental change in this bill. It concerns the modification of the definition of a veteran and it will enable applicants for veteran status to be granted to persons who are on multiple shorter missions than the existing law provides for. The current law provides that the name of a veteran will be given to those who continue on such missions for not less than 60 days. It was a basic condition. If anyone was on a mission for 60 days, the veteran status was granted. But there were such comments here that many times there have been missions, but in shorter periods, e.g. After two months. Someone could have been 3 or 4 times 2 months, in any case less than 60 days and these days could have collected, let's say, up to 150, but they didn't get the veteran status. The President's initiative aimed at taking such cases into account. Hence the introduction of a new provision in Article. 2 providing that the status of a veteran shall be given to the person who participates in the peace or stability mission, the police quota, the Border Guard quota, the protective tasks of the Government Protection Office and the State Security Service and shall ensure the security of the State . lit. and is repeated, it is as it was continuously for the period for which it was directed, but not less than 60 days or, that is, lithium. b for a total period of not less than 90 days. And this point has been added. So if you get 90 days together, that status will automatically be granted. This is the only change in this bill. As far as the committee is concerned, this proposal was adopted unanimously, 8 senators were in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. This is the result of the vote and this is the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration that I am presenting to the High Senate asking for a unanimous adoption, as was the case in the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u127	Just a quick question. Of course, Mr. Senator, we're all in favour of this bill, as we said at the committee meeting. My question is... Because it's written here, as I'm looking at it right now... It's a short bill, it's an art. 1 and Article 1 2, Article 2 This is just a formula that the law enters into force, etc., and this case is actually only about Article. 1. What's written here? The police are discharged, the Border Guard quota, the task of protecting the Office of Government Protection, that is, the former office, and the State Security Service, the SOP, after the changes, but there is no State Fire Department here. I remember that the rescue groups of the State Fire Department had these privileges, too. The question is, doesn't anything change there? We're prolonging... there could be 60 days of continuous mission or 90 days in total. As far as I can recall, it seems that in the case of these rescue groups, the fire department had a total of 60 days. There's just a question... As far as fire rescuers are concerned, I understand that nothing changes there, because we do not have here, as I see, mentioned in this article, i.e. Those fire rescuers, the State Fire Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u128	The senator's question is correct. In this record and in this rule I have read, the State Fire Department has not been mentioned, because it has been recorded previously and remains. And it stays. And as for the State Fire Department, they already had this handicap that, yes, 60 days, but not overall, but they could, say, be on duty several times to collect these 60 days. It was recognized and still remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u129	No further questions, so thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the president. The Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Paweł Mucha, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Does the President's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u130	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything has already been correctly said by the rapporteur's senator. I would just like to stress that I have the honour to present to the High House a bill which was passed by the Sejm, as it was said, with significant support, because only two Members abstained. This law, which also reflects President Andrzej Duda's view that the participation of Polish soldiers and officers in missions outside the country should be reflected in the relevant legal regulations appreciating this contribution. Mr President has repeatedly drawn attention to these problems, stressing that missions are not only about gaining combat experience, they are also a separation from the closest, sometimes also human dramas, and Poles soldiers, officers of many services, but also civilian workers go to places of conflict and war to serve the cause of peace. Their participation in the missions was and is an expression of their highest devotion and devotion to their homeland. Let us always remember their sacrifice and think of it, bowing with gratitude to the head of the President's letter, which the President was directing on the occasion of the veteran's feast. The project, which is now the subject of the work of the High House, is a reflection of the demand that has been reported from the mission veterans outside the country. This kind of expectation was directed to the National Development Council; it is such an opinion-advisory body at the President of the Republic of Poland. The National Development Council recommended the preparation of amendments to the Act of 19 August 2011 on Veterans of Action outside the State's borders. These changes were also consulted and with the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. As pointed out here, the essence of this change is that so far the status of a veteran could not be obtained even several times in missions and quotas or leaving to carry out protective tasks of the Government Protection Office and the State Protection Service or to ensure the security of the State for periods shorter than 60 days, and the Act already adopted by the Sejm provides for the amendment of the Article. 2 point 1 of the Act, which includes the introduction of this additional alternative way of determining participation in activities outside the State, enabling the applicant to apply for veteran status in a situation where a total of at least 90 days of service, determined as a result of the summing up of service periods, will justify that status. These may be persons who, due to the nature and needs of the mission, have been abroad several times, but this period has not previously exceeded this requirement for 60 days. So the bill is certainly expected. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, given these circumstances, I hope so. And I'm asking you to do that. That you will kindly take the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland to support veterans and their families and positively assess the bill proposed by the President of the Republic of Poland and adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the President's representative on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I do not deny the sense of this law, on the contrary, but I wonder why it took 90 days. Please note... In my opinion, it's whether it's a total of 60 days or a pussy for 60 days, i.e. during a one-off trip, served for the Republic of Poland outside the country and risked himself... It should be treated the same way. Why does it have to be 90 days if it was on and off? All the more so, as far as the State Fire Department is concerned, in her case it's unified. Whether it was together or not, it's 60 days.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As I said, the law was consulted in the framework of an expert debate which took place in the National Development Council formula, and was also consulted with the competent ministries. As indicated earlier, in response to Senator Piotr Flork's request: in the bill, according to the state of this day, is privileged to the rescue group of the State Fire Department. This exception was made here: for a total period of not less than 60 days. The experts who spoke on these matters and advised us, pointed to the specifics associated with the operation of the State Fire Service Rescue Group, that this is de In fact, the activity of this kind, that every day of the rescue action is a direct threat to life and health. And the criterion that was set out there was linked to the preference of the rescue groups of the State Fire Department. For all other tasks, i.e. those that you asked the senator about, the stabilisation missions, the peacekeeping missions, the quotas, whether it's the police or the Border Guard, or the security tasks. The period was not less than 60 days. We change that, I mean. We add a cumulative criterion here. But the experts who spoke in these cases indicated that it would not be appropriate to keep the same 60-day term here. This preference makes sense just when, as we say, someone either stayed for 60 days continuously, or had these trips shorter enough that the sum of these periods is longer. And then that criterion is fulfilled. And the solution to the State Fire Department in terms of the functioning of the fire group remains unchanged. So change is in plus. Because here the law doesn't change in minus. In the original law, when it was adopted, a distinction was made in a sense privileged, as the senator correctly pointed out, to rescue groups of the State Fire Department. And we don't change that. But we add an additional 90-day criterion. This was not questioned by the representatives of the Veterans of the mission and activities outside the country, by the representatives of the relevant services, it was not contested by the MON, it was not contested by the MSWiA. In expert debates, which were also organised jointly with the centre of the MON veteran The idea of this law was also discussed there. Everyone pointed out that this was a solution satisfying the veterans, meeting their needs and expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u134	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u135	Minister, of course I strongly support the amendment of this law, but I have a question. The Act talks about veterans operating outside the state. But the modern means of fighting are changing. So if someone were to be involved in combat, for example. By controlling unmanned aircraft from the country, that would mean that he would not be a veteran, and if he were operating outside the country, he would already be a veteran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u136	I can answer in this way: there is a deeper reflection, there is work in the MON, there are discussions, and I know that the work on this subject is ongoing, but issues related to the veteran status, with the definition of... We have focused on one issue that is quite detailed, related to the solution of the problem which has been reported in practice and which seems to be resolved, with the kindness of the senators, at hand. [[And that doesn't really apply, Minister, to soldiers.]] Yeah, it doesn't apply in this area... We have here a range of definitions that are already expressed in the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u138	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course, rescue groups, as you said, act at risk of life and rather have short-term trips. Therefore, this summation probably... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] It's gonna take a lot, a lot of times to get out of town for 60 days. Minister, I do not remember what privileges this law gives the combatants, hence my question about the financial consequences. Will it have any financial implications for the budget? It is about the changes that will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This was the subject of our consultation. It is difficult to estimate precisely here, because even the correct resorts were unable to identify specific amounts, very detailed calculations. This law does not have any particular financial dimension in terms of the burden on the state budget. The communications from the competent ministries were such that the adoption of the law is not absolutely at risk here due to increased expenditure. Their directory is indicated in the act. That's what the senator asked. There is, of course, a distinction between the veteran and the injured veteran. It includes both recognitions and additional allowances related to allowances, reliefs and, in certain situations indicated in the Act, also benefits or health care for veterans affected. That knowledge, of course, was in the resorts. Like I said, there was an indication that... I can't give you a precise number. This is a rather difficult task. The data is not so easy to aggregate, but # Like I said # There will be no financial consequences that would hinder the adoption of the law. Neither this kind of threat nor any contraindications to the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u140	You're welcome. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I think this is a very good idea. I'd like to express my personal opinion here. I'd also like to ask if it's working backwards. Are the soldiers and officers who have carried out various kinds of missions in the past... What's the situation? Are those who haven't been able to get... Well, there was no statutory requirement. What's the situation gonna be like now? Will it be possible, so to speak, to verify back of this dignity or this honor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u142	Mr Senator, thank you very much for the support and kind words expressed on this initiative. Of course, the point of the bill is that it allows you to apply for the status of veteran or veteran victim. Here, on purpose, as was rightly pointed out, there is a reference to a service that has ceased to function in the meantime. We're talking about veterans who could get an internship also within the BOR. Today, as we know, this is the SOP. The point of the bill is that the person who... It may be an extremely well deserved person who has had a lot of trips, but has never met the requirement for a 60-day period. She's gonna be able to... If this change occurs, if you kindly lean on this initiative, then after the change of law and after the announcement of a normative act, of course it will be so. That's the practical point of this bill. We are talking about the possibility that rights can also be acquired by people, in total, 90 days.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-27-senat-65-2.u143	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[There's no government representative.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Tomorrow we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m. from the examination of point fourteen: the second reading of the draft resolution on the anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. In the absence of legislative proposals to this point, the vote will take place immediately after consideration. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 25]]
