ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I would like to inform you that for the consideration of the 15th point, i.e. Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, and point 16th, i.e. Act amending the Police Act and some other laws, we will proceed after 2:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The text of the Act is contained in print no.1011, and the committee's report In print No 1011 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Alexander Swede, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to be quiet, because the Senator rapporteur has already entered the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u2	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions of 20 November, which dealt with the Senate's initiative to amend the Civil Procedure Code. The proposed amendment aims to align the right with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017, the signature of Act SK 31/15 declaring the non-compliance of Article. 7781 of the Law of 17 November 1964 on the Code of Civil Procedure, in so far as it allows the court to grant the enforcement title issued against the company a manifest declaration of enforceability against the former shareholder of that company which is not already a shareholder at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in which the enforcement title was issued against the public company, in Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. as regards the infringement of the right to a properly shaped procedure, Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. as regards the deprivation of the possibility of defending the property rights of the former partner and Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland as regards closing the road to court. It is therefore necessary to adapt the system of the right to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal also where the enforcement title designates a different type of personal partnership than a public company. The recommended solution consists, first, of the addition in Article. This does not apply to the person who, at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company, was no longer its partner; secondly, the provision of Article 3 shall apply to proceedings for the award of a declaration of enforceability against a partner, a limited partnership or a limited partnership initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation. 7781 in the wording of the draft amendment to the Act. The bill is to enter into force after 14 days. The project was widely consulted and its opinions were presented by the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, the General Bar Council, the Ministry of Justice, the National Federation of Restructuring Advisors and Syndicates, the Union of Polish Banks, the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice and the National Chamber Council. They were mostly positive opinions. They were raised in them, among others. the argument that this amendment will have a positive impact on entrepreneurship as it will reduce the risk of shareholders of a personal company arising from the business activity, so-called. the legal risk, since this regulation excludes the possibility of giving a declaration of enforceability against the person who was no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company. Therefore, the former partner of a personal partnership, bearing responsibility without limitation for all its assets for the company's obligations, if the execution against the company proves ineffective, and also if it is obvious that the execution will be ineffective, will not be deprived of the possibility of defending its property rights by judicial means. The opinion of the National Federation of Restructuring Advisors and Syndicates was an exception to the opinions of the entities consulted with this amendment. This Federation has issued a negative opinion, considering that this is too far-reaching interference in the legal situation in force and is detrimental to creditors. However, this opinion was more polemic with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal than with this amendment. In the Senate, the joint committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions adopted unanimously 15 votes in favour of the proposed amendment at their meeting on 5 June. The Higher House then voted in favour at its sixty-two second meeting on 29 June, and 5 abstentions accepted the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is unacceptable from the point of view of the right to court that there is a dispute between the creditor and the debtor at material level. The creditor requests that the dispute be settled before the court, and the subsidiary debtor is not only prevented from taking part in legal proceedings, but does not know that such proceedings are taking place at all. The settlement of the dispute between the company and the creditor has indirectly shaped the legal situation of the debtor, in this case the former shareholder of the public company, without his knowledge and participation in the process. And among others. This amendment is intended to counter such situations. Like I said, the bill was filed by the Senate. The first reading of the project in the Sejm took place at a sixty-eighth meeting on 13 September, after which the project was addressed to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. On 4 October, the committee adopted a report recommending the adoption of a draft law as proposed by the Senate. The second reading of the project took place at the first 70th meeting of the Sejm on 8 November. At the same meeting, the Sejm passed a law in accordance with the recommendation of the committee. To the Senate, the amendment of the law was passed on 13 November. On 20 November, the Joint Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions were discussed. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion was positive. The committees unanimously recommend the adoption of an amendment to the law without amendments. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I request that the Senate adopt a uniform act annexed in print No 1011 A of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr. Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Short.]] You're welcome, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Like I said, short because the bill is short. But that's not what's best about her. The best part is that it constitutes a senate initiative, does not raise doubts, executes the judgment of the Constitutional Court and provides protection for those who have been deprived of this protection so far, as rightly stated by the Constitutional Tribunal. During the seym work there were no major doubts. There was no such doubt in the course of the Senate's work either. I would very kindly ask the Senate to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone have such a question for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the National Debt Register. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1015 and the report of the committee In print No 1015 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law we are discussing was adopted by the Sejm at the initiative of the Government as an exercise of the obligation imposed by Article. 24 Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. In accordance with it, Member States are to establish and maintain in their territory at least one register in which information on insolvency proceedings is published, i.e. the so-called. the bankruptcy register. The law introduces this principle. At the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the law was adopted with amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. These amendments are largely technical in nature. First of all, they aim to ensure that there is no legal situation in which there would be a duality of the register, because by the absence of a certain provision which provided for this earlier, it was first stated that the National Debt Register was introduced and, at the same time, that there was no provision in the law for the elimination of the Central Register of Restructuring and Failure. Therefore, the Legislative Bureau proposed an amendment to the article. 34 plus paragraph. The following 3 are deleted: The Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment. In this way there will be no doubt that we are not dealing with duality of the register, only there will be one National Debt Register That is its full name. The law, of course, together with all the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, was adopted unanimously by the committee. In fact, we can say that it was a rare unanimity, and it should be applauded. In fact, the Act orders cases related to this register, which will cover not only the conduct of insolvency proceedings, but also provisions concerning persons for whom enforcement proceedings have been terminated due to ineffectiveness. In other words, it will include e.g. the provision that a maintenance debtor has failed to comply with the maintenance obligation and enforcement proceedings have been terminated because of ineffectiveness. This is what I give for example to illustrate how this can affect a particular person who is not necessarily engaged in an economic activity. The law regulates the procedure in detail and therefore also introduces certain amendments to the bankruptcy and resolution law, as well as to the Civil Procedure Code. As I said, the bill was adopted unanimously because of its purpose and precision, and there were no objections to it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u7	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piebiak like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Shortly.]] You're welcome... [[And yet, Senator, the rapporteur wants to comment.]] [[If I may yet, Mr. Marshal, in addition. Can I have one sentence?]] If it's a supplement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u8	I just wanted to add that the meeting was attended by a lobbyist. Unfortunately, I don't remember his name right now, but just to be precise, I'm telling you. [[All the better, because you're lobbying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u9	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief, although this bill is much longer than the one I had the honour of presenting earlier. I would very kindly ask the High House to support this bill. This is a government presentation. It constitutes, inter alia, and in principle, an obligation arising from the need to implement Union law. The Senator rapporteur paid attention to this topic. The deadline was June 26th, so it's a little late. We wanted Parliament to pass this bill before the holidays, but before the holidays there were so many other projects in the agenda of the Sejm and the Senate that the bill had shifted to autumn. This failure is relatively small and it would be good for it to be removed as soon as possible. I think the matter that is contained in this bill is of all means useful. Despite the size and complexity of the project, it was quite efficient, maybe beyond the confusion of introducing it to the agenda of the Sejm. There's no doubt in the bill. The Senator rapporteur also pointed out that this is not a controversial law, it is not a political act in some way, it is not a law that causes political emotions. This is a law that will put a lot of order into the legal system and at the same time carry out the duty that rests on us, so I would very kindly ask you to accept this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u11	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you very much.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u12	I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Robert Mammoths. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the eleventh point, i.e. The law on amendment of the law on administrative courts has already been dealt with. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. The text of the Act is contained in print No 991, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 991 A and 991 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 9 November 2018 amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. The High Izbo, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, has examined this law and unanimously adopted a resolution recommending the adoption of this law without amendment by the High House. The law is accepted by all and there has not even been a special discussion on this subject. We all look forward, like farmers, to such a solution and praise for the fact that this proposal is and will come into force quickly. Namely, the proposal is that these legal arrangements should apply from 1 January 2019. High Izbo, the aim of the Act is to match existing tax and food law solutions to the needs of small-scale food producers and facilitate their disposal, including in particular in the context of agricultural retail trade. Currently, it is only possible to dispose of manufactured foodstuffs for final consumers. The Act allows the possibility of disposing of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade to operators such as shops, restaurants, cafés and other establishments with similar characteristics. The proposed amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act allow the benefit of the tax exemption set out in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (71a) and the possibility of taxing by a flat rate of 2% on recorded revenues from the sale of processed products in a non-industrial manner. And I would like to say that the bill increases from PLN 20,000 to PLN 40,000 income from sales of food exempt from personal income tax. When this amount is exceeded, a tax of 2% will apply. The solutions contained in the Act are very beneficial and expected. I hope that the High House also unanimously, like the committee, will adopt this draft law, which I am referring to on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 20 November 2018 considered a law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. The bill was expected. I think that all farmers, as well as the members of the committee, are pleased that she has come to us as a matter of urgency. It was announced earlier by the Minister and our government. As my predecessor, Madam President, said It responds, improves the ability to sell directly to small farms, increases the amount of sales to 40 000. And it did not raise any doubts, rather, as I said earlier, the enthusiasm of the members of the committee. I, on behalf of the committee, request the adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Simon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes? You're welcome, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u17	Thank you kindly, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senack Izbo! I would like to thank your marshal, the honourable Senators, for reading all the intentions contained in the bill as well as its objectives. So to speak, we agree with this aura that you co-create here, that there are no amendments, and that there is no doubt about it. It is very important that, in this law, what the State has highlighted perfectly, the needs of farmers of producers, which were, of course, previously notified, have been carefully understood. They accumulated in such a form that the statutory record was only a consequence of obvious expectations. And for this reading, thank you very cordially to the House of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u18	Minister, now there will be questions for you. Minister, please stay because I already know that the senators want to ask you such questions. I would remind you that the questions last no longer than one minute and relate to this item on the agenda. And you're welcome, Senator Marian the Follower.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u19	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, because there are more and more different kinds of research that confirm the harmfulness of highly processed food in human nutrition, which causes many civilization diseases, so I think that this law is absolutely necessary, but there are doubts in 2 groups. One group is those who are happy to sell. Nevertheless, there is a question about fiscal money, because if it stays... Is it true that if the value of sales from a holding above 20 000 is exceeded, the farmer will have to purchase fiscal money? That's one thing. The second is related to food safety. Until now, only a natural person could be the final buyer, and now they can also be shops, canteens, etc. Is there any risk related to food safety in cafeterias and sales points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u20	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u21	Thank you kindly. Dear Senator, first question. It's being prepared, you can say it's already being processed, the VAT bill. There is, of course, a whole sequence of matters in relation to the subject you raised. Next year we can expect to see regulation - this law will come into force from 1 April - which will fully meet the needs you have told us about. They are of course well known to us. There will be a statutory response to these needs. Without going into details here, I will say that this problem will be resolved at the level that is expected. There will be no use here, in quotes, of fiscal funds. There will be another procedure likely to apply to a group of farmers already seen as a group of flat-rate farmers, so there will be no need for fiscal cash registers here. That is the ambition at this stage of the procession. We will all edit and learn detailed records in the process of the bill, but the trend is what you have outlined and what farmers expect in terms of a cumulative solution. Second question. It's basically simple here because it involves a one-time answer. There's no danger. I've had the opportunity to talk about it before the High House. Any regulations that make life easier for farmers, shortening the chain from producer to consumer I'm talking about the shortest dimension. It requires the application of all existing sanitary and veterinary rules. It doesn't make things any less serious. On the contrary, the full instrument of control and regulation is adequate to the situation, sufficient and unchanging the well-being of customers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u22	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In fact, my question becomes pointless because there is no indication of the income that the farmer will be able to obtain, whether it is about how he will register it or how he will account for it. As the Minister said, this is a further matter and we have until April, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u24	I'm just confirming what you're asking: there won't be any cash, because there won't be any need. We are at the moment, so to speak, in creative cooperation also with the Senate, expert cooperation. We're kind of on the road to finding optimal solutions. I answered the password, as you can answer today. I think it's perfectly satisfying. The intentions heard in your voices and in the voices of the farmers who reach us... This law was amended on the basis of them, on the basis of substantive proposals from farmers, which are edited individually and by various associations and associations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Łyczak, Józef Łyczak. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u26	It's okay, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much. Minister, the bill we are investigating concerns processed food, but there is a problem here for those who run the so-called food. grocery stores in the city. The problem is, next to them... They obviously pay contributions to the Social Security Office and do everything that is related to business. And there was a problem here of this kind, that they were next to them, probably after buying a place, with a regular table for you, as I call it, pseudo-farmers. These pseudo-farmers conduct commercial activities without taxing them, so they have the opportunity to lower prices and bankrupt themselves. I know these cases because they were reported to my office to those who had been doing this business so far, selling these vegetables, food, also in the processed part. My question is this: does the government have any prescription to do both, so that farmers, these genuine farmers, can benefit from this law, and the practice of these not entirely honest ones is cut short? Thank you. [[Most of the time, they're the ones who...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u27	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u28	Thank you kindly. I think what you're asking the senator is related to the problem of doing it under the so-called name. mediation. Right? 'Cause that's what it looks like a lot of times. This is a certain curtain that is used It's important to be clear about this. In unfair practices threatening the interests of farmers who have been given certain opportunities to act in accordance with the intention of the legislators, including the High Senate. At the same time, this situation is exploited by, you can say, unfair competition, from any motives it is organized on this commercial battleground. The legal directive is very clear: this mediation, which is fully authorised by law, is a certain exchange of legitimate services between producers, between farmers, but only in a situation where one and the other farmer can help one another in commercial activities, and only if both are bound by law and operate in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Right? This perfectly narrows down the field of this completely legitimate, completely public interest, with the interests of farmers, economic activity. If that's not the case... We know this problem and we will, of course, react. The possibilities are what all the inspections we have at our disposal give us. This very bad business, dishonest... After all, everyone could apply these rules of the game. And this isn't about what's going on, I don't know, at the level of the gunmen. Right? God forbid. This is about organized activities, the actions of people who are pretending to be using the benefit of the law, eliminating those profits and those benefits which are addressed very precisely to farmers. Thank you for this question, Senator, because I can confirm here that this problem is visible, is examined and, I would say, to be quickly controlled by the forces at the Ministry's disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of this limitation, the fact that the sale of food to retail establishments... Because this disposal can only take place at plants in the region and surrounding districts. It's a territorial restriction. Is it even necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u32	I think, also in the context of the questions that have been raised here, and perhaps they will still fall, that this is a restriction that is needed. First of all, I'd say a certain dimension must have Let's remember what the purpose of these applications is. What falls within this definition of marginal, local, limited production. Right? This is a statutory regulation and this is a regulation for which the objectives are very strictly defined. It is in line with the concern to respect all these procedures and sanitary requirements, all these prudential requirements... The question of distance is also very valid here. And I think that these two aspects, which are still related to the third, i.e. such a demonstration proximity, such a short, shortened length of this chain from producer to consumer, from field to table... Well, it just has here, in this three-way sequence, its true dimension. I think that's a clear and obvious motivation. There may be situations here that are of such nature that maybe life... 'Cause I imagined that. A few kilometers from the voivodship border... Here's the problem. That's probably what you meant. But I'm talking about the legislator's intentions. And I don't think there's any problem here either. Because if the next voivodship is 5 km, then this is the same proximity, so to speak, the same 5 km, right? And the dimension of this bill and its intention, which I was just talking about here, in this aspect that the senator has raised, are clearly preserved. So that I am calm about this functional aspect of intent, which was included in these records. That's how it's supposed to look.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u34	Thank you very much, Marshal. It sounded a little dangerous in your words, Minister, to say that those who trade with the so-called ones will be punished. A table. After all, those who trade in this way are mainly pensioners who own their parcels and sell surplus in different markets. And here's the thing... There's nothing to nod about, Senator, that's the truth. If you pass... Maybe you're not walking the market. But the truth is, they're mostly people like that. They usually come with a basket or a bucket and sell their surplus. So you have to be careful not to fire the baby with the bath. 'Cause it's really a little extra money for these pensioners.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u35	But, Mr. Senator, at first I said it wasn't the problem. It's not about gunmen, it's not about pensioners. Because this is economically, in the sense of competition unnoticed, and for this group of people very valuable, because it is precisely satisfying life's needs, even minimal, in terms of turnover. However, we have all noticed, and the senators have also noticed that the benefit of this law was assumed by someone else without such powers. And it's the wrong group. I don't want to develop here... throwing some epithets in this direction. We all know what's going on. Nor can we afford that the beneficiary will be someone other than this very clearly indicated beneficiary, the Polish farmer, and it is the farmer whose reason for being... After all, we have described this in terms of financial, economic, provisioning for a certain income, some possibilities of staying out of it. This is a group to which we address this, so to speak, the way the economy works. This is the reform of Polish agriculture, which is to be established. And so all the phenomena... This isn't about gunmen. Because their production is such a production, you can say, self-help, completely domestic, with minimal interference in the market. But what we and the senators here have noticed in these questions... Well, that's what the answer's gonna be. Also without consequences... without scaring, without any hurricane or hurricane controls. But we're recording this problem, we know it, and we're gonna react to it. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u36	Senator Błaszczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, maybe I'll argue with my colleague and as a question, I'd like to highlight the problem... Just before that, my previous speaker was talking about vegetables. But it's starting to get pretty big around here. I see it as part of some activity in my family, i.e. the production of eggs, because very massively, even in markets, even in shops, eggs appear without stamp, without marking, without packaging number, and all producers must meet these requirements and are controlled by veterinary inspection. It all means costs, too, because everything has to be recorded, and we pay taxes, and this is a common practice. Like I said, even the stores have eggs without markings. There is, of course, a fashion for free-run breeding, for such production, but this must also be kept in check, because there is a big business going on here. I'm paying attention to that, too. No one here is in favour of having a few cocks, having to sell these eggs as... Well, it can't be mass activity, and sometimes it starts to look a little bit like that. In big markets, in big cities, it's really the dealers who take over. It's hard to see a farmer there, mostly traders. I don't think that's what we're talking about in this bill, which is why, Minister, I'm reporting this, maybe not as a question, but as a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u38	Thank you kindly. I fully confirm the Minister's suggestion. I confirm in the sense that the government is constantly implementing these directives resulting, firstly, from the legal provisions and secondly, from such recognitions, completely appropriate and obvious, which the senator has just presented to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u39	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. At the same time, I inform you that you have made a speech to the minutes by Senator Robert Mammoths. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1001, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 1001 A and 1001 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed this project last week. I'd like to bring it up in two words. This project is part of a comprehensive support programme for indebted agricultural producers. It was notified to the European Commission as complying with the guidelines of the European Commission. What are the possibilities? It introduces possibilities for restructuring debt supported by two institutions, i.e. by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and by the National Agricultural Support Centre, in the form of subsidies or loans. Debts of a monetary nature arising from the pursuit of agricultural activities, including both capital, interest and other charges, will be subject to restructuring. It's a government project. The Seym passed it last week, November 9th. During the committee meeting, the legislator, Mrs Beata, tabled five proposals for amendments. Two senators took the floor in the discussion: Mr Kleina, who took over these amendments, and Senator Włosowicz, who asked about the date of entry into force of the Act. As a result of the vote, these amendments were not accepted and the committee therefore asks the High House to adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u41	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. It's a 1001 senate print. The main objective of the Act is to help indebted farms which, as a result of duplication of damage caused by adverse weather conditions or crises on agricultural markets, have problems with the continuation of agricultural production. According to information obtained from banks lending agriculture, about 2 000 agricultural producers have a problem with bank lending. The entry into force of the proposed law will allow financial liquidity to be maintained for farmers. The Act introduces the possibility of debt restructuring in the form of: the granting by the Agency of the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture interest subsidies granted by banks for restructuring loans; the granting of loans by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture; the granting by the National Agricultural Support Centre of the guarantee of repayment of the bank's restructuring loan and the acquisition of debt by the National Agricultural Support Centre in exchange for the transfer of all or part of the agricultural property of the indebted entity to the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury. The envisaged solutions shall be addressed to farmers operating for at least 3 years before the date of the loss of the debt management capacity. It does not include entities in liquidation or bankruptcy. The restructuring procedure may be initiated after the relevant entity has submitted a request. In the case of an application to the restructuring agency, the head of the agency's county office will be responsible for the application to the National Agricultural Support Centre and the decision will be taken by the director of the ODR field branch. It will be mandatory to add to each proposal a restructuring plan containing elements such as: a description of the measures planned to recover the financial liquidity of the holding, a timetable for the implementation of restructuring measures or an analysis and assessment of the economic condition of the farm operator. Debts of a monetary nature arising from the pursuit of agricultural activities, including capital, interest and other debt management charges, are to be subject to restructuring. The Commission, which took place on 20 November, requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you have any such questions? Mr. Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u44	Mr. Senator, I have such a brief question. Since I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to ask about the benefits of this law for individual farmers. Because, as I understand it, to them is the hand of the state, towards them, those who can't handle farms. And I have one more question. Will this credit be provided directly by the agency, or will it be indicated by any bank entity that will implement it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as benefits are concerned, as I have pointed out in the report, farmers will benefit directly from this. And when it comes to loans, I'm going to say that the loans are going to be granted by banks that are going to make contracts with Arimr. Like I said, a farmer who's in financial trouble has to meet a lot of conditions to get this credit. I am glad that this law comes into force, that we are going to help farmers, because, as you all know, agriculture and mining are the two most difficult sectors of the economy on which Poland stands and will stand and to be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u47	Do any of you have any questions? Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! There is a good point in helping, in my opinion, all those who, for reasons of their independence, have fallen into various kinds of problems. However, there is a question of this kind: are we not creating a certain philosophy of supporting something and it is permanent? After all, as far as agriculture is concerned, this main aid is still and will remain, although the time is certainly limited, aid from the European Union, direct subsidies. Here we create an additional element of aid, perhaps justified. But my question is what will happen in the future when this European aid is lacking and, perhaps, the flow of aid from this law will also be limited. What will happen to agriculture then? How do you expect it to be? After all, in the market economy there are no fixed points, constant growth trends.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u49	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u50	Thank you for that question. What Mr. Senator has raised is very right. I will refer again to what awaits us because agriculture, like the senator knows perfectly well, is a factory that lacks a roof, isn't it? And we're fully dependent on climate anomalies. We are now seeing what is happening in countries that are trying to teach us how to keep the air clean so that we are not affected by these tragedies that are at their place at the moment. They couldn't stop it themselves, and they're trying to teach us. I am very pleased, as I pointed out at the outset, that the Act enters into force and we are moving in this direction. I'm afraid, Mr. Senator. And this is where I share your concerns. That this aid will have to be more and more. Because what the EU benefits will be, no one knows, because for now it's scaring. I would've avoided that at all. But I have a lot of fear about this, and I'm convinced that this help will have to be increased, because the climate will unfortunately get harder and harder. and less and less favorable to farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u51	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes? There you go. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, but...]] No? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: No, thank you very much, Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let me ask the senators a question. Senators may now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone have a question for you? Mr. Marian the Messenger. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question which relates to the consultation process concerning this law. Well, a few agricultural organizations criticized or still criticized this bill because of the fact that... Firstly, it is limited to a certain group of farms. Secondly, taking over property for so-called. KOWR's debt is such a dangerous precedent, even because of the history of the Polish village. Thirdly, are the sums planned for support real in terms of spending this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u53	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to thank the senators very much for presenting a very detailed report on this law and at the same time refer to the question asked by the senator. This bill, Mr. Senator, concerns, as you said, a narrow group. According to BIK data today, this law is subject to I'm gonna use that phrase. The entities, natural persons, legal persons who have fallen into financial difficulties and who today are 1 thousand 690. And the funds for that are fully secured. We cannot expand this group because in the next group there are people affected by bankruptcy law, there is a insolvency syndicate and in this category of aid do not belong because they are no longer holdings, that is bankruptcy mass. Right? We took the data from the BIK, but there are two and a half times the size of the funds, so we still expect that there will be such farms. As for the question asked by your senator, I will say that as regards the duration of the programme, this law is notified by 2020. Later we must resume, but these effects are of course a matter of 5, 10, 20 years in relation to KOWR. And there was a question about KOWR. Well, the National Agricultural Support Centre I don't know how to explain it very clearly to you. It doesn't take over this farm. He leases them, leases them. Maybe after 20 years, and I believe it very strongly. The operator, the farmer, will simply get out of trouble. That's the help, isn't it? Well, here is a very large guarantee, here is the guarantee of the Treasury. It's not about taking over, it's not like when a syndicate takes over and sells. This farm is still functioning, it's going on. This is the help and I here wanted to emphasize the essence of this help when it comes to KOWR, the agency, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u55	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u56	Well, I have a maybe less significant question. Is this law and other government activities It's protective, you can't hide it. And as far as agriculture is concerned, and as I hear, mining... Although the situation is more under control there. Can it not be, as you say, an argument in the hands of Brussels officials not to increase the aid or even reduce the aid? Because if the State pays, it helps, then this argument about the need to compensate to the so-called. mean... which, of course, is absurd, because if you add something to the average, it creates a new average. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u58	Mr. Senator, I just don't agree with this statement or, I would say, with a suggestion. The payment is a sum of PLN 14 billion, and here is a very narrow range, very small amount. It's just help for those who get in trouble. Well, we don't assume that those who get into trouble are gonna get more and more, that the problem is gonna get worse. Oh, no, it's not like that. We can't assume that, we can't go in that direction. Well, whether the European Commission in these negotiations on the next so-called. Seven-year-olds are gonna talk about how we're helping 1 000 690 people, and then they're gonna lower our subsidies? No, I don't believe that. [[Or it won't.]] Or higher? [[Or it won't.]] A, or it won't. I was gonna say, if he's gonna pick it up, God forbid, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u59	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. First of all, these entities are 1 thousand 690. Are they just individual farmers? What's the other type? are they entities? Who's that? Secondly, what is the reason for this limitation that agricultural activities must be carried out for 3 years? Is this some kind of top-down criterion, or are there other rules that impose it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u61	I will reply in very detail in writing. Today I'm not going to tell you if they're just natural persons or other entities, legal entities. I can't tell, but I'll answer you, Senator, in writing. Well, it's written that only the people who run the farm and pay the tax for 3 years, for a minimum of 3 years, are subject to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u62	Thank you very much. Who else has a question for you? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 995, and the Commission's reports In prints No 995 A and No 995 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! On 16 November, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed the excise duty refund included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. This law introduces 2 amendments, 2 proposals. The first one raises the limit, which has so far reached 86 litres, to 100 litres of diesel per hectare of agricultural land. This is the first offer. The second proposal introduces a new element in this law, i.e. the refund of part of the excise duty included in the price of fuels used in cattle farming. And here the law introduces a limit of 30 litres of diesel per large unit of cattle conversion. This law is a government submission. It was adopted in the Sejm on 9 November this year. The Sejm passed this bill without amendment. At the meeting of our committee, an amendment was tabled by the legislator. The discussion was attended by Senator Klein, who asked about the details of this amendment, more about the clarification of this amendment. After clarification, we joined the vote. All the senators were in favour of passing this law, therefore, we are asking the High House to adopt the law without amendments. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u64	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture welcomes the next law, which addresses the problem in agriculture. For this reason, a discussion was held and the subject of the law was presented. It was presented in detail here by Senator Włosowicz, so I remain merely to inform you, the High House, that the Committee on Agriculture also recommends the adoption of the law without amendment to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u66	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you senators have that question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk wish to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank the senators very warmly for the report, very detailed. Indeed, this law is very necessary, the previous one, of course. It greatly strengthens the competitiveness of Polish farmers on the European market. I ask the High House, so briefly, to adopt both laws without amendment. By the way, after consulting Director Szelągowska, there are no legal entities, Senator. About that... Then I won't have to answer in writing anymore. Right or wrong? And for three years, that's financial law. So in terms of debt restructuring, we have to take into account the current year and 3 years back in terms of the condition of the farm. [[So it's from outside regulations? Isn't it pre-imposed?]] Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u68	Thank you very much. At present, the senators... [[The Minister's office...]] Yes? And you're Marian the Messenger. There you go. [[Question.]] Question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I cannot not ask because of the fact that agriculture and cattle farming are developing very intensively in my constituency, but also pig farming, and especially pig farmers, are asking whether they are worse, in the context of an additional return to cattle farmers, for which there is a limit of 30 litres per hectare. I understand that we will not change anything in this bill, but do you not think, Minister, that in any subsequent amendment we should not forget the other breeders who also bear considerable costs and are, at this point, discriminated against by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u70	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u71	Thank you for that question, Senator. I agree with you. In 2019 we will be working on this. Of course, this must be allowed by the financial resources in the budget. You're actually right here. There is nothing we can do this year, but in 2019 when it comes to legislative work, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u72	Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u73	Minister, a few years back, the problem wasn't just fuel subsidies or excise refunds. It was also a problem not to use these subsidies. There were various reasons, e.g. badly calculated surcharge or crime, i.e. buying fuel even cheaper by farmers than the one that required invoicing. The question is: how was the use of subsidies and excise refunds developed last year?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u74	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u75	That's a pretty detailed question. Allow me, senator, to submit a written reply. Okay? [[Good. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u76	Thank you very much. Do any of you have a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to Senator Jan Rulewski's question. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As announced earlier, we will proceed to the 15th and 16th points after 2:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1002, and the report of the committee In print No 1002 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u77	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr. President! The proposed scope of the amendments is in principle not homogeneous and covers a number of points in the Energy Law. The proposed changes include, in particular, the regulation of the back-up selling institution, i.e. the sale of gaseous fuels or electricity to the final customer connected to the electricity or gas distribution network or to the gas transmission network carried out by the back-up seller. The Act implements in the Polish legal order the Network Codes and Guidelines adopted within the European Union as measures to build a common, single market for electricity in the Community. The Network codes and guidelines shall be placed on the legal market within the European Union in the form of regulations of the European Commission, as appropriate, pursuant to Article. 6 and 18 of Regulation No4/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges of electricity and repealing Regulation No 1228 of 2003. The Act also introduces a modification of the scope of the obligation to sell electricity produced on the stock market by increasing it from 30% to 100%. It's now 30%. This is to prevent vertically integrated energy groups trading between entities within their structures from avoiding the ban, resulting in a significant part of the energy being avoided by the main stock market. In addition, the procedure for access to energy infrastructure located in non-owned real estate is simplified. It is proposed to abolish the obligation to develop programmes for the construction of natural gas filling stations for the smallest operators involved in the distribution of gaseous fuels. Local government units shall be allowed to use natural gas-powered vehicles to meet the 10% requirement. the participation of organic vehicles in the fleet of public service vehicles. This scope of change was discussed lively at the committee meeting. Amendments to the proposed order were tabled at the committee meeting. The legislator also proposed amendments. Unfortunately, the amendments were partly supported by the senators who were members of the committee. In principle, each of the proposed changes was discussed during the discussion. Each of the proposed amendments raised reservations and doubts, to which both the Minister and the current President of the Energy Regulatory Office responded substantively and exhaustively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u78	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone have a question for you? Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u79	Mr. Senator, in your report, you didn't talk about the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Could you inform the High House of the opinion of the office, especially of constitutional objections?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u81	Constitutional? [[Yes.]] Detailed comments from the Legislative Bureau. Well, maybe I'll read it because they're pretty detailed and relate to specific paragraphs. These are the comments that have been made in the opinion that adds to today's Senate meeting, the ones that we have... I'm the one who can read it. [[No, no...]] They were just... They're very precise. Those are technical remarks, they're precise, they contain paragraphs, and I wouldn't want anything here... but yes, yes, there were those comments, but... [[I would just like to inform the High House of objections to the article. 2.]] The Act amends the Real Estate Management Act by imposing an obligation to give immediate effect to administrative decisions requiring the provision of real estate for the maintenance, repair and repair of drainage lines, pipes and equipment for the transfer or distribution of liquids, steam, gases and electricity, and public communications and signalling equipment, as well as other underground, ground or above ground facilities and equipment necessary for the use of these cables and equipment, as well as for the removal from the ground of these lines, wires, equipment and facilities (art. 2 amending Article 124b of the Real Estate Management Act). That's why I read it, because I, to tell you the truth, wouldn't be able to remember all the names, although I am a technician. Yeah, there was a speech about that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u82	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Tadeusz Skobel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: No, thank you. Presented...)]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium because there will be questions. And there you go, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u83	Minister, at the committee meeting, we spoke a lot, in connection with this law, about this dramatic rise in energy prices, wholesale energy prices for entrepreneurs. I would like to hear from the Minister, or in addition to the arrangements that are in the law, i.e. obligations to sell it 100% on the stock exchange, the Ministry is preparing some other regulations or actions that will prevent such drastic increases in energy prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As announced earlier by Prime Minister Morawiecki, by Minister Tchórzewski, the government is currently working, we are at the stage of inter-ministerial agreements, but also of the EU. There was a meeting. The twenty-sixth will continue. On compensation, which for the rise in energy prices, i.e. for fundamental reasons, may arise or already arise for individual customers, i.e. tariffs G and those customers who receive electricity at the level of this tariff, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises. This declaration, which has fallen, is that these accounts do not increase so that they are compensated in the course of the proceedings which are currently taking place. It is the subject of the government's work with such a timetable that by the end of this year it will see a resolution that will regulate these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u86	Senator Pekkis wants to ask you a question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u87	Minister, has the question of cogeneration been clarified? It's exactly 52.5%. Where did this number come from? 52,5,5% The required cogeneration level?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u88	We've been explaining this case... We'll send the senator the answer to that question. I would just like to remind you that at the moment the cogeneration bill is being prepared and it is being discussed by the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers... She has already gone through the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and will attend a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I think that such a holistic approach to cogeneration in the context of this law and the regulations contained therein will be the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister. I admit that I was a little concerned about the possibility of switching electric vehicles to natural gas-powered vehicles in the company's fleet, which will serve the transport rented by the local government. Please tell me whether we are slowly starting to move away from the rigors of the law, which clearly stated what individual steps should be involved in the introduction of electromobility. There's one gate, then there's another... How did such liberalisation come about?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u91	Mr. Senator, this is not a matter of moving away from the electromobility bill. We are implementing this law and we will implement it. It simply appeared, for technical reasons, the following matter. Self-governments have pointed out that currently there are no electric vehicles such as those with alternative drives, i.e. low-carbon ones, on the market. garbage trucks that could be acquired at that time, so that they can function in local governments. As there is a full range of such vehicles with different drives, we found that in order to meet this requirement... Both elements and others serve to protect the environment. So that we do not move away from electromobility, we promote electromobility and we will continue to promote it. We are simply giving a chance to meet the requirements set out there by using, if such vehicles appear, 2 types of propulsion, i.e. drive for natural gas and electric propulsion. [[If you don't mind me asking, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u92	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u93	Minister, I must say I cannot agree with you. Still, a natural gas drive is a drive that needs to be burned by some kind of carrier. Natural gas As a result, carbon dioxide is produced. So that whether petrol or natural gas is consumed is not important from the point of view of carbon dioxide emissions. The electric drive is something else. Of course, somehow this electricity in the power plant has to rise. We're made of coal. But the scale of environmental pollution is quite different.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u94	As I said, at the request of the local authorities above all, because this was their request to us, this regulation was created. We believe that in order to meet the 50% condition It is not necessary to introduce this regulation that we are introducing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u95	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you.]] Another question? [[No, I just want to sign up for the discussion.]] Good. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I admit I was expecting a turbulent debate today, because the energy situation, so to speak, is calling for it. If companies are getting offers for next year's increase in electricity prices by 60, 70, 80 and more percent, then in Parliament we should spend hours on this issue to thoroughly review the situation that threatens the competitiveness of the Polish economy, which will consequently turn on inflation. And yet, the Ministry has basic instruments of action in this area, because the leading players in this market are public companies, state companies. That's why we asked that at the committee meeting. And it's hard to be satisfied with the answers. Yes, this law proposes some kind of reaction by extending from 30 to 100% the need to sell energy on the stock market, but first of all we know that it will probably be just like the introduction of a 30% market share obligation. And this time it'll be a trial. However, perhaps one of the factors that caused such a significant increase was to discount the change that the Ministry is proposing, of course, in addition to other permanent factors linked to the fact that we are still failing to meet EU renewable energy obligations. By the way, I would like to tell you that several times this year, energy prices in Poland were the highest in Europe. It's a success! You're successful! Really! We did it! And this is in a situation where you said that renewable energy, which represents a greater percentage in the energy mix of other countries... She was supposed to be so expensive, they were supposed to have higher energy prices. Meanwhile, it's the other way around, even though we're probably going to talk about it today. In order to drown the price of energy, we import more and more coal from Russia, and even moments, breaking the embargo, from Donbass, so as not to lead to even greater increases. What was supposed to be the source of our energy security makes us increasingly addicted, and that makes us dependent on those we were supposed to be independent of through carbon. That's where we get addicted, and yet energy prices go up. The Minister spoke here, answering the question, about certain actions. But, Minister, it's all too late! We will be the ones talking about prices that will be drastically higher than those that are in force now, because most of them have missed the stock market and are concluded under direct contracts. That's where the raises are so high. And the Energy Regulatory Office for wholesale prices has nothing and therefore cannot intervene here. The Ministry is absolutely passive in this matter and it is reprehensible. It's allowed for these increases. Why? Well, anybody's got a look. And we've just looked at this in connection with the employee capital programs of the State Treasury, including energy and electricity companies, would see how poor their results are. The fusion of coal producers, often of low efficiency, with power plants, has led to the fact that energy, as we predicted, is itself getting into trouble. That, of course, is not the only reason, Professor, but this is one of the reasons why it looks the way it looks. And now energy with these raises is trying to get straight, turn bad management, bad decisions on companies, and then on citizens. And it's happening right in front of us. It seems that this is a delayed-fire bomb that is about to explode in our hands with a passive attitude, I stress, a government that operates... which refrains from acting when it comes to companies owned by the Treasury, or where it has a strong advantage in terms of shares, and takes actions that relate to the future. The government is just working, the government is just thinking, and in a few weeks the companies will have to pay, not just think about what to do. They have to sign these far worse contracts for themselves right now to be sure of their deliveries. Therefore, this environment in which we are talking about this law is very unfavorable. It's been a long time. To tell you the truth, I don't remember anything like that, I don't think it ever happened. You have to hit the alarm, because things are happening, I'd say, catastrophic. The second point I wanted to raise is the change in the Real Estate Act. Proposal for a Article. Two is bad. It is not only bad for legal reasons, because it is contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitutional Tribunal clearly states that yes, it is possible to give decisions rigors of immediate feasibility of immediate execution when there is a threat to some protected goods. The Minister said at the committee meeting that it was about accidents, etc., etc. It is known that energy is the service that must be provided. Only, Minister, that the Court says that it must be realistic and not theoretical. The introduction into law of this obligation means that we ignore this finding of the Constitutional Tribunal. Today, the elders have the right to apply such decisions and do what they cause... Well, they do, because there's a huge protest in my district. If the Minister wants to check, go ahead. The village of Byszki, the municipality of Ujście, the district of Pilski, that was where the situation took place. There were also farmers in my office who thought that the decision of the Pilski Old Town was issued absolutely prematurely. Leaving this provision in the form in which you propose it would normally violate the Article. 2 constitutions. That's not my opinion. This is the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and I have no doubt that it is right in this regard. This provision absolutely should not stand in this law. Therefore, I will propose an amendment to this article, to delete it, to modify it and thus delete it. Eleven, who's connected to him. In conclusion, I want to say yes. This law contains many important, necessary solutions that fully implement the European Parliament directives, but also respond to a number of phenomena that have occurred. However, when it comes to two issues, it is unacceptable. Firstly, it does not respond in an appropriate way to the situation of very large, already the following, increases in energy prices for companies. Secondly, it violates Article. 2 of the Constitution by requiring decisions to be made, immediate feasibility of decisions to make ownership available for energy purposes. This can often be abused. In this village, which I was talking about, under the pretext of renovation, there is really a complete modernisation of the line. And when energy orders its network services as part of the offer, design and build, when it is sought at all costs to reduce costs when companies seek to do so, there may be a very drastic situation of infringement of property rights despite the lack of real property rights, as the Court pointed out, a situation of threat to life, health and electricity supply. Therefore, I believe that this law cannot be adopted in this form. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u98	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr. President! I'll make a brief reference to the previous statement. She was largely based on certain myths, beliefs, beliefs, not facts. If anybody does, Mr. Senator, I'll turn around so personally. The knowledge that we're bringing back, as you put it, and I can ask you not to bring back coal from Donbass, from the area under threat... If you have that knowledge, you have to report to law enforcement. If that's... [[They're already on it.]] If so, of course, as you know perfectly well, the coal from the deposit is marked by the characteristics of this deposit and can easily be identified on the heap of coal from which it is. As far as Polish deposits are concerned, they are all identified You are a geologist, either to confirm it or to deny it. And it can be determined with a high probability of deposit on the basis of a sample of this carbon. So much for coal from Donbass. By the way, it is very saturated coal and is therefore not suitable for combustion in most of the new Polish power plants, CHP plants. But that'll be a minute. As far as the URE is concerned, it is also not true what you said that the URE has no possibility of pricing wholesale customers. If you follow up on what happened during this year's energy-price vacation, you'll see that Mr. President URE reacted. All he had to do was announce an intervention on the stock exchange. That announcement was enough. And these prices started to plummet. So this is the real action that the President can take and which the President is taking. One of the inconsistencies is that the President is taking It's very good that he's taking it, I've already praised But it's only been done for about three years, to be exact. I'm sorry, but I've been through what those interventions looked like before. Perhaps there was no need to intervene, but there were few. As far as energy prices are concerned, it is obviously not true that energy prices in Poland are the highest prices in Europe. Anyone who knows the energy price structure knows that energy isn't material and yet isn't... Well, it's not a free trade, you don't buy it like a milk basket in a store. And energy is subsidised by the countries that produce it anyway. If you get acquainted with the energy subsidy structure in Germany, you can easily and unambiguously calculate that this price is multiple times Not that a little, many times higher than in Poland. If you'd like to lean on it a little bit more precisely, referring to something more than superficial data resulting from e.g. from Eurostat... but even from this data, that is not true, because the highest energy price We haven't even gotten close to her. Portugal has in Europe. But it needs to be looked at, tracked, and not to throw words like that into the wind. This is dangerous because we are talking about energy security of the Polish state. I realise that there is a political struggle, but you must not try to destabilize the country's energy situation in such statements of very important senators. I apologize for this ad vocem, but I feel some anxiety when I listen to such information, anxiety about Poland's energy future. There is no doubt, however, that, over the past years, years before the rule of law and justice, investments in energy have stopped. I have explained to the High House many times here that energy is such a delicate source of problems that come out after years. In other words, the investment omissions that took place 10 years ago are coming out right now. And right now, it's best to show that there was no investment in energy. And she's a very expensive investment, very, very expensive, these are billions of zlotys. There were no investments, no vague plans, no estimates, no plans for Ostrołęka, hundreds of millions spent on Ostrołęka, but construction was not started. The only investment I can think of is Opole. And it was an investment forced by political pressure, political pressure, it wasn't an economic decision. Opole in terms of energy, as far away from large customers, does not necessarily make sense today, but this is the only decision that the previous government has made. However, this is, ladies and gentlemen, 1/30 of Poland's potential, and it takes at least 5/30, 1/6 per term to multiply. It has to be played out so that we have continuity. The investment for the nuclear power plant, which was announced loudly, was also abandoned by the state, although millions were spent. I'm sure you're aware that you've abandoned a very important one. strategically for Poland and this part Europe of investment. You just stopped. And today we pay the bill for it. [[Show me what you're doing.]] Another issue is the current government's approach to building a nuclear power plant. And here we have to be honest that about every month, in a more or less veiled way, the energy representative promises to build a nuclear power plant. You have to be honest here. Yes, Minister. I've been going through energy services, and I've got my editors with whom... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sorry, that's an expression. So we're trying to analyze it, and it doesn't look good. But that is not what the scope of the changes we should be debating is about, which is why I am going back to the subject. Sorry about the introduction. What is worrying, and it is genuine concern, is that the possibility of violating the property rights of private land will be given. This possibility concerns entering the area not only under the pretense of removing the failure. As for the failure, there's full agreement. When it comes to failure, about the removal of failure, it is a full agreement, Minister, it must be done, it must be written down. But when it comes to renovations, maintenance or And here's the most controversial case. The removal of existing installations... My dear friend Andrew bought the land in the middle of the city, the land on which he decided to build his home. He built a house. When he bought the land, he checked. The plot was clean, without anything. He built a house, built a garden, built a rock mill. He built all of this at the expense of actually two-generation savings. And then it was like you came to him from one of the bets and said that underneath the rocks there was theirs, as he even called it nicely, the chamber, and they had to go down there. And he says, sir, there's no way, I bought a clean cut. If that law comes into force, no one's gonna ask him. They're gonna strip his rock and go into that chamber to fix it, repair it. And that's the danger. That's what I'm afraid of, personally, is that someone can enter private property and do anything under immediate feasibility. And I don't have a problem with that when we're talking about accidents. As far as the crash is concerned, I agree. But the existing installation, the old one, needs to be removed before someone else, for example. The land will sell. The second thing that I think is dangerous is the common market that we agree to, the common market for gas fuels and electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who knows what the energy production structure looks like not only in Poland but also in the European Union knows that all fuels are taken into account in electricity production. All of them. It is not as in Poland that there is domination of coal. In other countries there is no carbon at all, there are other fuels. We only agree on the balance of the market for gas fuels and electricity. Where's the solid fuel? Where's the liquid fuel? If there is no European market community for all fuels, partial extraction of individual fuels will promote a particular country. The finger can be shown today, which country will benefit from these changes. Strangely enough, these are the most prosperous countries. [[How much longer?]] [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Under their dictatorship, we will have to bear the consequences in a few years. It's not enough if because of the changes that haven't been made... [[...it's been a minute...]] ...before a decade ago. 'Cause that's what we're talking about today. 10 years ago, we're gonna have consequences... If it's time, I'll ask for another one... Okay? [[One minute.]] And then plus 5, I'll go again. [[Good.]] If, under the pretence of these changes, we will have to bear the consequences as Poland, then why do we accept it? This is contrary to the interests of the Polish state and its citizens. We're in the European Union, okay? We have consequences. What's the price? Mr. Augustine notes that prices are rising. They're growing, Mr. Senator. Were you in favour of Poland joining the European Union? I'm guessing so. Mr Senator, do you know that, as part of the functioning of the European Union... ♪ 'Cause you're just ♪ It's thematically oriented. I'm sorry, but so politely, I respect your knowledge. You know that we have commitments due to our presence in the European Union. One of the obligations is the carbon levy. For every ton of carbon dioxide emitted, we committed to pay. For every ton a good day a year ago, we paid 6 euros. [[Time's up.]] It's just a little while longer. I'm sorry. [[That's five minutes in the next round.]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u99	Okay, thank you. Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I was moved to make a statement here just moments ago. As it happens in life, there were those I agree with, and those I absolutely cannot agree with. I'm particularly concerned with Senator Augustine's speech. Well, I'd like to draw your attention... A significant part of this speech was a criticism of the proposed law, and at the very end there were statements that this law has a lot of positive solutions. Because I try to look everywhere for the positives first, I will also support this bill, because there are a lot of positive solutions there. That's where I agree with Senator Augustine. However, it is difficult to agree with your statement that the drastic rise in energy prices is linked to such a hidden suggestion here. With prices of energy carriers. Well, I would certainly agree with Senator Pekkis' statement that, above all, these energy prices are now being shaped by a drastic increase in CO2 emission allowances. That's what leads to the rise in energy prices. And one more thing, because I felt like I heard a lobbyist in renewable energy. Well, energy costs in this renewable energy sector by definition are No, they must be higher than in classical energy. And one more thing to say here. For the economy to function, apart from renewable energy Or wind or solar energy must work at the same time. And what happens if there's a little less sun when the wind gets weaker? Then this classic energy will be necessary to ensure the functioning of the state's energy system. I am surprised, Mr. Senator, that dislike of coal, often presented here. After all, coal has a lot of positive properties. I would like to mention, for example, that it is needed in certain situations related to gastric ailments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u101	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this moment, the moment has come which concludes the discussion about energy, and we have to say check. We're looking at how the price of electricity will rise, what the cost of generating it is, and what about our energy security. For a long time we have all been involved in various discussions, listening to what specialists say, reading information in the media, watching TV and talking to people. My baker. I obviously don't have a bakery. It's about the baker I'm stocking up with. It has a small steam plant and told me that the proposals for electricity prices for the following year represent an increase of 70%. We say it's gonna be from 20 to 70%. He's the one who's been offered 70%. We know that cities will have to increase their energy budgets several times. Not only for street lighting, but above all for communication. Especially big problems will be where there is a well developed tram network. And that's not going to be a few, a dozen percent increase. Information says a dozen percent. Maybe 40%, maybe 50%. In Poland there is a great deal of concern among entrepreneurs, it is clearly heard. So right now, this year, I'm already checking. And we're checking to see if that direction that the government has taken is correct. The discussion about whether the prices of electricity in Poland will rise or not is probably unobtrusive, because unless a few months ago Prime Minister Morawiecki said that they would not increase, denied, said that it was an invention, but that the Prime Minister was not speaking at the moment. And in fact, no one's denying that energy prices aren't going to rise. The question is, how much. For companies several dozens of percent. I said, as long as the price of energy is increased for this little bakery. And, of course, it will translate into bread prices. It's clear. That's the kind of policy we're gonna pay for. I understand why the government doesn't intervene. Because it's not like there's no way to intervene. After all, all these energy companies are companies, companies of the Treasury. But the government is aware of the need to bring money to energy so that there can be investments. And you have to download... But we also need to raise money to support the mining sector. After all, this is why mines were combined into the energy sector, despite the opposition of the energy sector, despite warnings from the energy sector. Energy companies didn't want that. It was the government's decision to force them to do it. And don't deny it wasn't because I know the scenes. These trials were already in the previous government. And now it's been realized. That's what's causing... It's not just certificates. Of course it will increase the price of energy, violently, jumpingly. The certificates, of course, also... add up to the increase in electricity prices. But we knew this for a long time, and we were walking in this direction consciously. We're going into carbon energy, we're based on carbon energy, we're not getting out of it. And, of course, we will pay for these certificates. Okay. So now there's nothing to say that the certificates have caused... We knew that they would cause it, and consciously in this direction. We were walking. So we are in a situation where it will translate into the efficiency of our economy. Because such an increase in energy prices must shift to the efficiency of our economy, efficiency in Poland, but also in relation to the environment. Do we have any other options? Are there other options? Of course, they are. But regardless of the fact that wind energy and other environmental energy costs, we did a certain move 2 or 3 years ago, introducing a law that basically eliminated investments in wind energy. We have introduced rules that basically prevent such investments. Why? I don't really understand why. Nuclear energy. Well, of course, we have to build independence. Nuclear energy is needed, the development of nuclear energy. It takes a few legs to stand firm. This is the situation in which we are in which you are also in which you are in charge. And consciously. Don't tell me there's no fault of yours. In the end, I'm going to talk about a rule that violates property rights. I'd call it lex Smolinski. We were discussing a law yesterday that provides for expropriation of banks, very quickly, from the march, without any criteria. There's a record there. We've got another one of these right now. [[Time.]] You will be able to access other people's property not only because of a malfunction. It's obvious that when there's a malfunction, you have to save it. But you will be able to access someone else's property, private property to repair or remove the installation. These are the things you have to plan. Property can be violated... [[Time.]] ...on the basis of mutual agreement and in accordance with the law. Well, there's a decision, then there may be an appeal, you have to pay for it, etc. [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] For me, the passage of the law that makes it possible is part of the property rights policy that PiS is running. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u103	Thank you. Senator Pekkis, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u104	Continuing the previous statement... The predecessor said they knew it was going to be that way with the price of the issue. If you actually knew, you'd be crazy rich. If someone could predict an increase in the value of 1 permit from 6 to 30 euros in 1 year, then this is the scale It would be a rich man if he played the options. Of course, no one had that knowledge. No one could have suspected that the value of carbon dioxide certificates would increase repeatedly over the course of the year. I stress that many times. And that's what happened. Well, it's sad. Unfortunately, the European Community is completely insensitive to cooperation and solidarity in the case of fuels, in the case of electricity, less in the case of heat energy. This is the price we pay for communion with countries that in this respect... Recently, in Angela Merkel's statement, she made it clear that, in terms of gas, oil is primarily concerned with the interests of her own people. She said it clearly. So much for the European Union as regards the gas market community, liquid fuels, solid fuels. The common market, in my opinion, which is residually common, which is the one that will fit Western Europe, is unfavorable for us. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider whether this really is a step in the right direction for the Polish people. What raises my greatest concern is that I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendment that I tabled. It is a requirement to have in the fleet companies providing self-government services for one year and two months, i.e. from 1 January 2020, a 10% share of electric or natural gas-powered vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that natural gas is not the gas that we are fueling at gas stations. It's not LPG. LPG is not subject to this definition. LPG is petroleum gas. It's the wrong gas. As regards the number of publicly available natural gas stations in Poland I'm going to make a mistake, plus minus 5, that's 23 of them. There are 23 publicly available natural gas stations across the country. As far as the transport of natural gas is concerned, two technologies are possible. First of all, gas transport in the volatile phase, but it takes about six times such tanks as LPG, six times in volume. Secondly, gas transport in the liquid phase but this requires low temperatures and high pressures. Well, this is a special and difficult department of technology. The liquid phase is CNG. I did, I would say, check the state of registration of new vehicles, because only new vehicles are on the table, last year and previous years, vehicles powered by such electricity that qualify here. So it's plug-in, electric and hybrid plug-in. How's it look? That's 0.2% right now. on a yearly basis. Over the previous 5 years, registration of such vehicles accounted for 0.5% registration of new vehicles in Poland. Let me repeat: on a scale of 5 years, this is 0.5%. Cars for CNG, cars with gas installations other than LPG, for natural gas, is sold so little This sale is residual. That it's not even statistically recognised. In other words, even if we assume that's what I'm going to say, it's a big hill. We will resolve our doubts in favor of So that's 1%. ... I just don't think there's a technical possibility of 1% of it. market share in year do 10% , since the market is estimated at nearly 550 thousand new vehicles registered annually. $550,000. Yes? Well, if it's 1%. We're gonna do 10%. How easy to count, we need about 50,000 new vehicles or electric vehicles, or powered by a unique fuel that is difficult to get. Because there's no fuel, there's no universal charging station. You can build these stations, but it's another investment, and it's an investment for more expensive vehicles. It just doesn't pay off economically. The reason why people do not use electrical technology or CMG technology in mass is simple. It doesn't pay off. They use hybrid technology, classic hybrids. How do we know that? Let's see what the Warsaw taxi drivers use. The most commonly used car newly registered by them is a hybrid, a very specific hybrid. This one burns less, this one just pays off. What's the second reason this doesn't pay off? Western countries, which made decisions about a decade ago to promote electromobility, directed powerful financial resources to subsidise the purchase of new vehicles. Denmark is an example, Norway is an example. In Norway, the plan provided for the purchase of 50,000 electric vehicles. They donated very heavily the purchase of an electric vehicle, they wanted it to be cheaper than the cheapest corresponding combustion model. After the end of the action, after the grant was completed, the market would be so developed that it would manage itself. So what? Dramatic decline in sales of electric cars. People don't buy it because it's too expensive and it's got too many flaws. The charging at the charging station takes too long. To be honest, as an energy engineer, I can say this: Thank God this electromobility didn't bloom here. Do you know how much electricity it takes and how much electricity it takes to charge the electrician? And today we have a problem with the amount of energy and we're on the border... It's not a crisis yet, it's not a crisis. Some say we have exactly what it takes, that we don't have any excess power. But if we hooked up electric cars like we planned on a scale of tens of thousands a year, we'd be in a crisis. Fortunately, Poles did not go in this direction. I'm asking you to drive 100 kilometers, you need 12.20 kWh. Do you have the calculators? Then count how much extra energy you need to buy. Where are you going to get that energy if there are no sources? These sources must be if we're planning electromobility. That's what I said three years ago, two years ago, and a year ago, too. We're planning electromobility, we're planning development? Great. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but plan to build power or show us where we're going to get power. The cable under the bottom of the Baltic Sea is cool, but it has a specific capacity. Yes? Sweden is selling us energy. This is our biggest supplier. It's cheap, but there's a limited amount of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, also for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! I must refer to the critical voices at my first speech. It's a good thing no one's denying that the raises are jumpy, big and too big. There's no doubt about it. We can argue if I was fooled by this entrepreneur who showed me an offer with a 78% raise or if he was right by another one who showed me an offer with a nearly 70% increase. There must have been lower offers somewhere. The minister says, "Look what it looks like in the quarter." Yes. As you would look at the months when the eruption wasn't there, and the ones that would add up when it happened would probably be a little less. But it's not like we're gonna have to throw our arguments on this, is it, like, 60%? Whether it's 1/3. It's just a dramaticly high raise. Now, Professor, I'm on the side of the Energy Stock Exchange. What you can see there today... of course every hour is different, but on average today are probably the highest prices in Europe. And this Europe has been referred to here several times. Well, in our committee, there was information that these certificates were responsible, Professor, for only 20%. raises, 20%. The rest are other factors, our national factors, and we have earned it well. Therefore, if we are using the European Union's argument, I will raise what I said again. How, then, to explain that energy is relatively cheaper, even definitely cheaper where up to 90% energy comes from renewable sources? Of course, every country has different conditions, there is a starting point, and all governments have a lot of vices in this area, and your previous government, and our governments, and previous governments. We have maintained this energy mix, we have concreted it and now it is difficult for us to meet the demands that the European Union has made not to anger Poland, but to care for our health. I think we all understand that, because a moment ago in this House, we also followed the laws that said that coal, especially bad quality, should not be burned. We have a program of clean air, etc., etc. It's also a bad road for energy. If we move on, we may not be able to bear this burden. Because Mr. Marshal was right here to show that... And here, Minister, it's a good thing that the government is thinking about making up for small and medium-sized companies, because these companies that I've been talking about, which I, well, you can say, called to each other to say what's going on, are just small and medium-sized companies. And for them, help must be found because they showed that they were on the verge of bankruptcy. But you also have to think about making up for it to local governments, or at least some local authorities. 'Cause how are they gonna pull the hospitals? It's got to be a bigger program. I hope that's how it's gonna be. But here in the Senate, let's use these. A few minutes to make sure that, yes, this applies to everyone, but there are places that need to be taken into account and for which compensation must be given, otherwise it will have a very negative effect on local governments, health institutions, small and medium-sized enterprises, and it will certainly be a very bad signal for potential investors that we still need so much. So let's not argue, please, about how high this volume is. I would prefer that we here today, in parallel to this law or even in connection with this law, argue strongly and strongly about how the government should not think about what to do in the future, but how it wants to help immediately to prevent these negative phenomena. Thank you to Marshal Borusewicz, I, too, believe that it is necessary to ignore the opinion of the owners when there was a real failure. But the introduction of a rule that violates or disregards private property is indeed a violation of the constitution in the article. Two, as the Legislative Bureau indicated, and we shouldn't agree to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion has spread widely. I am speaking because it concerned not only the substance of the law, but generally energy policy and the impact of coal investments on the price of energy in the future. I'm gonna try to make my speech so telegraphed, because I have a lot of facts to say, a lot of things to say. There was an issue of carbon imports. There is no doubt that it is growing very much, actually this year we reach 15 million tonnes, with a percentage of imports being from the Russian Federation. To a certain limit, we do well not to become addicted, because it is relatively cheap and good coal. That's the way to say it. But the fact is, and in this case, there was an investigation that a small amount of coal was imported from Donbass. That was about 15,000 tons. There was an investigation. It was run through a number of intermediary companies. It's a shame, but, as far as I know, this case is being held back. The issue of investment in energy and the fact that our government, i.e. The PO government didn't invest. He invested, as an example, Mr. Senator, is even the Opole Power Plant, that is a typical investment from our period. The question is whether it's right or wrong. Probably right, though debatable. The current investment in the coal power plant, the latter, Ostrołęka 2, is a mistake. After all, the company has a process with shareholders, associated with a small chance that this power plant will be profitable. The point is, she's gonna be generating losses. Our situation in energy is very complicated, it should be said, the minister has no easy task and neither do we have an easy task. For some time we have defended Silesia and very strongly defended coal as the primary source. There's a reason for that. In my opinion, we are too late to do so, a little too late, and the last coal investment is associated with it, the more so as restructuring in this area is faster and the possibilities of extraction are decreasing due to prices, due to the lack of investment, because of the conditions, because this is coming from considerable depths, etc., etc. Our problem is that we're giving up now. s e.g. in the case of Opola, with some delay, it will start operation of the first and second block Carbon blocks of very high quality, good performance, however, do not meet e.g. winter package standards, 550 g 2/kWh. Of course that's not possible, because this line is arbitrary. And it actually concerns co-investment or EU funds in energy investments. So it doesn't put us down... but it totally puts all the investments on our shoulders that this standard doesn't meet. And then the effect is that we have it on our shoulders and we can't add anything to it. This standard is arbitrary. Is she right? She's basically wrong, because she's so set up, that very good gas-fired power plants fulfill it, with difficulty, but they fulfill it. So it has to be said that this is a bit against coal policy. But we need to know... I'm in various EU forums on this issue, and I'm translating it. And I'm explaining us. Because we have no choice but to have the next 20, 30 years... these new coal investments have to work. And here's the second line. Any climate commitments that we have made and which are still threatening us... Because it must be said to be very clear that parliamentarians in most countries are in favour of the standards that the European Commission ultimately sets... After all, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union are constantly dealing with these issues. Winter package and its components... Recently, Commissioner Šefčovič has been performing and he has been milder than parliamentarians. Now I'm back from Vienna, where we talked about it. He is much milder because he realizes that there are 7 countries quite heavily addicted to coal. And we especially do. Meanwhile, parliamentarians keep saying: sharpen, sharpen, sharpen; our people see that there is drought, there is flooding, and here are violent atmospheric phenomena, as we will emit less, it will end. Of course that's not true. When it comes to the connection between climate and atmospheric phenomena with what we are talking about here, it is far, complicated and, above all, has a large time constant and no one knows exactly what it's like. Nevertheless, because, so to speak, the precautionary policy is the right policy to reduce CO2 emissions. She's right, only expensive. But it cannot be held in such an absolute and maniacal manner as most European parliamentarians present. We have harded to convince, in group V4 and elsewhere, the Czechs, Hungarians and Slovaks Well, Hungarians didn't have to be persuaded. At least not against us. Because they were ready, too. And their solutions are different. Hungarians have hooked up to a Russian atom, and they use it. The Czechs say they're going to expand nuclear energy. The Slovaks say they have a balance right now. The Austrians who hosted it are totally behind the climate package. So that in all this, in this whole situation We're in a very difficult situation. The European Commission, however, has the most common sense, which slows and slows down these drives. But at the moment, actually, the intermediate target for the share of renewable energy for 2030... Parliaments have forced an increase from 28% to 32%. And we're gonna have a hump again. We pay for this hump and we pay for it, and there's no way out. There are two lines. We made mistakes. We've been sticking to coal for too long. These restrictions on the wind on land, these two kilometers, what caused this stagnation... It went too far, you shouldn't have done that. We'd be a little relieved. And now we're gonna have to speed up the wind energy on the shelf. These plans are there, but, as far as I know, the first results will be in the years 2020 to 2022 and later. So it would have to be increased. But when it comes to the rest, we have no choice. We've invested so much in this coal, and it's in very good big blocks. Around 1 thousand MW, that's about how many blocks are given back in Opole and elsewhere. That for the next 20 or 30 years we have to exploit it. And we will pay for it, there is no choice, because the price of emissions is rising, these EU energy targets are tightened up, so we should say, politely and nicely justify... And that's what Buzek does. This is what the EU programme is doing, as well as this plot in the new financial perspective, which is intended to help transforming regions. . which concerns Silesia. I still live, although I do not know with what intensity and with what opportunities, the idea of expanding CCS technology, i.e. Carbon Capture and Storage, to capture and store carbon dioxide. This is a relatively little promising issue, but it needs to be supported all the time, because this, first of all, demonstrates our goodwill, and secondly, soothes these various urges. And these are not just the Commission's urges, but they are also parliamentarians' drives, and parliamentarians in many European countries listen to their people who say that what is wrong and what is happening in the climate, or droughts, violent floods, is the result of the use of coal, which is, of course, an extreme and excessive idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u109	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to respond in writing to Senator Pekkis. You made a legislative proposal, Senator Pekkis... [[Mr. Marshal, I have not submitted a new application. Those were the proposals that were made at the committee meeting.]] So there are no legislative proposals? [[The proposals I have been talking about are the proposals that were made at the committee meeting.]] [[I think Mr. Augustine has filed...]] [[I made...]] I'm sorry, I was misled. Senator Augustine has submitted your applications. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm ordering a recess until 11:40. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 22 to 11 minutes 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1003, and the report of the committee In print No 1003 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. The Act allows the use of the European Commission's decision of 8 February 2018, extending until the end of 2023 the possibility of financing the costs of restructuring the coal sector from the state budget. Therefore, the amendments are introduced in the laws of 7 September 2007, 22 January 2015 and 14 September 2016 amending the Law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. This allows the period of funding from the State budget to be extended to the restructuring of the hard coal mining sector by 2023 without changing the amount of the limit of the State aid granted, i.e. within about PLN 7 billion. Notwithstanding this, amendments are made to the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining in order, inter alia, to extend the right to mining leave to persons who have exercised their choice of functions in the bodies of trade unions associating employees of mines, mining plants or their designated part. The duration of this trade union function is to be taken into account when determining the right to a mining pension. In addition, amendments were made to the Law of 30 August 2013 on grants for certain entities in order to take advantage of the possibilities provided by Regulation No 651 of the European Commission declaring certain types of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Article. 107 and 108 treaty. This Regulation extends block exemptions to certain categories of State aid, including aid for culture and heritage conservation, so that public aid can be granted in such cases without a long notification process. Public aid to these operators has so far been notified on the basis of compliance with the internal market rules, in accordance with Article. 107 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This applies to the aid for the Salt Mine, the Salt Mine, the Wieliczka Salt Mine and the Coal Mining Museum in Zabrze. This aid was considered compatible with the internal market by the Commission as aid intended to promote culture and heritage conservation. Therefore, the introduction into the Law of 30 August 2013 of a grant for certain entities of provisions declaring public aid to those entities compatible with the internal market under the European Union's directly applicable State aid rules or declared compatible by the European Commission to be compatible with the internal market gives the possibility to apply it to aid granted to those entities without having to carry out the notification process. After the vote, the Commission requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. You're welcome. And I invite the Minister to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u112	Minister, of course, the bill is necessary as much as possible, it does not raise doubts, but after the explanatory memorandum and after the parliamentary debate I had a lack of information. The Minister has provided, too. And that's in the explanatory memorandum. That the amount allocated to the purpose of the Act, the 7 billion, will not be exceeded, that we will fit in this limit. In turn, I read from the Parliament's debate that this amount was implemented to a very small extent. I would like to ask, Minister, why this is so. Was she too tall? Is it a matter of payment deadlines? Are there any other reasons why this has apparently been overestimated?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We actually planned... Even here in the Senate, we had a debate about this a year ago. We have increased by 4 billion in the previous law, in the previous term of office, the amount for restructuring, we have increased it to 7 billion. Why did we support the request to increase this amount? Because it was an envoy's motion, and it was our opinion. Because, by examining what is ahead of us, i.e. the transfer of unnecessary assets of individual mines, conversions or matters related to other property parts, which were cost elements... We have calculated what expenditure will be needed in connection with technical separation, security or possible rehabilitation work, but at the same time we have taken into account this second process, the social process, the social process, i.e. early retirements, checks. We also planned for the first time that the public administration in the company, i.e. the people working in the offices, would also be able to benefit from briefings. All of this has led us to believe, in calculating this, that 7 billion will be the amount that should allow us to carry out this process calmly, while taking into account all the workers who want to benefit from early retirement. It is also about the process of remediation and restructuring by disconnecting technical parts and securing them. We wanted to show that the SRK, the company that was set up for this, could easily lead this process. And that valuation wasn't really up to date. For us, in our opinion, it was real. Why are these measures so far... It's not that they're used in a small part. They are used in a certain proportion, because we have 7 billion by 2023. Today is 2018 and this process, as you know, has been going on for 2 years. I'll tell you that we have some savings, but I'm not hiding that we're trying to make... even though we have a real amount, we don't want that amount 100%. Use it. Maybe we can spend less money. Well, that's what we're really going to do. Therefore, SRK conducts some activities related to the search for certain funds from the sale of assets, for example in agreement with individual companies, especially with PGG... It is a question of assessing whether we really need to move so much money for these social issues to the SRK. And that's why it's this amount. As far as I know, it's less than 2 billion, but I can also answer the senator in detail. At the committee's meeting, we presented this with a breakdown into individual mines, for individual years and for this social part. I do not hide that this aspect of some savings, about not spending money on growth, is present here. And we have two reasons why we have such a policy. On the one hand, These are public funds, so we make sure that they are reasonably spent, the more that the quite strong emphasis is placed on control and reporting in the SRK. On the other hand, we must also inform the European Commission about how this process is going and account for it. So here is a very strong rigor to evaluate each element of this process. This, too, causes every public money to be viewed several times before it is properly developed. I think if we can keep this idea for an S.R.K., we should be able to fit in this size. I don't even want to declare anything here, because it's not until 2023 that we're gonna settle this, but we shouldn't get close to 7 billion. We want SRK to be more active in post-industrial areas. If it turned out that we would receive from a regional project, which is now being discussed in the European Commission... it is about helping regions in the restructuring process. We could raise funds, among other things. to these areas on the board of the SRK. This would probably result in some synergy, which I have already talked about, so that these post-industrial areas will return as areas developed for investment in our cities. And that would also mean that, when selling these areas, SRK would raise the right resources and we would not necessarily have to use these public funds for the operation of SRK, but this is all in the process. Hence I confirm and design these 7 billion, and that we are trying to spend these funds very cost-effectively. And we will present to the senator what we presented at the session of the Sejm Committee. And we're going to write down what kind of assets, how much, what expenses he was involved with, and we're going to write down this social part, which is how many vacations, how many one-off payments were there in terms of the size of the mines, because that's what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u114	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As for Senator Augustine's question, we'll send...]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1006, and the report of the Commission In print No 1006 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krystian Probierza, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. This law on amending the law is the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers. The aim of the proposed amendments is to clarify certain provisions of the Act and to streamline selected areas of the technical supervision system while reducing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs. This novel also implements the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit recommendations. From the most important points that the amendment of this law introduces... Allow me to mention in my opinion the most important of them. The definitions of "modernisation," "repair" and "preservation" have been introduced. For the purposes of these amendments, modernisation is a combination of activities which are not the manufacture of a new technical device which alters the characteristics of a technical device, and in particular its design or materials, technical parameters, or protective automation or its assemblies. As far as repair is concerned, this concept is defined in such a way that it is a set of activities aimed at restoring the performance status of a technical device, including those carried out by chemical methods, without changes in the design or technical parameters. In addition, maintenance is a combination of operations performed to maintain the performance status of the technical equipment, carried out in accordance with the operating instructions, which are not repairing the device. In one of the articles, exactly in the article. 7 of that law, it is indicated that in matters falling within the scope of the Office of Technical Supervision concerning technical equipment or equipment in nuclear power plants, the competent authority within the meaning of the Code of Administrative Procedure is the President of the Office and the higher authority The Minister responsible for Energy. The following article of the Technical Supervision Act states that the manufacture of technical equipment with a view to their entry into service shall be carried out on the basis of technical documentation agreed with the competent authority of the technical oversight body as regards the compliance of that documentation with the technical supervision conditions. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions introduced, another technical oversight unit, if the technology for the manufacture, repair or modernisation of a technical device is in line with the decision... The purpose of this construction is to eliminate the need for re-encouraging. In my opinion, these are the most important points of this bill. There was no special discussion at the committee meeting. The Legislator made some comments on this law, in a decisive conclusion, the Minister stated that he did not see the risks raised by the legislator and proposed to adopt the law in a version without amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I have a question for the Minister. [[Oh!]] She hasn't answered me yet... [[Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: Not yet.]] So I'm waiting for a text. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 999 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 999 A and 999 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis... [[Voices from the room: He's gone. There isn't.]] There's no senator? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then we're gonna have to announce a two-minute technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Pekkis will replace the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. [[It'll be quicker.]] I would like to present a report to the committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws, print No 999. Purpose and subject of the bill. The Act amends the Act of 21 November 2008 on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovations, the Act of 7 July 1994. Construction Law, the Act of 13 June 2013 on the management of packaging and packaging waste and the Act of 20 May 2016 on energy efficiency. Poland has been at the forefront of European countries with the most polluted air for years. 33 Polish cities were listed on the list of 50 cities with the most polluted air in Europe, prepared by the World Health Organization in 2016. In 2018, 8 new Polish cities appeared on the updated list. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that the official studies of the European Commission and the Supreme Audit Chamber estimate that pollution of air causes the premature death of 45 000 people in Poland each year, while the costs associated with pollution-related diseases are estimated to amount to many billion zlotys per year. Already in 2000. The Supreme Chamber of Control reported that the main factor affecting bad air quality in Poland is low emissions, coming from emitters located at a height of less than 40 m, and recommended that intensive measures be taken to introduce quality standards that make Poles use better quality fuels and better boilers for solid fuels. The same recommendations and indications for the rulers were found in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of December 2014. The Supreme Audit Chamber has highlighted both the lack of elementary coordination between government activities in this area and the lack of coordination between government and local authorities. A summary of the lack of proper public administration activities in this area was the adoption by the Court of Justice of the European Union of 20 February 2018 of a judgment stating that the Republic of Poland had not established an effective system for protecting its citizens from contaminated air in the years 2007 to 2015. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that, in line with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the reports published since 2000, and the recommendations of experts dealing with the main tasks discussed, which must be carried out in order to improve air quality in a thorough manner, are: firstly, setting emission standards for solid fuel boilers; secondly, setting quality standards for solid fuels; thirdly, creating a shielding programme for vulnerable customers, so-called. energy poor. The authors of the law point out that improving air quality in Poland requires integrated actions consisting in launching a system program of thermomodernization of Polish single-family houses, combined with the exchange of high-emission heat sources, implemented in conjunction with the definition of emission standards for solid fuel boilers and the definition of quality standards for solid fuels, which allows the removal of the worst quality solid fuels from domestic furnaces. This law is one of the tools for implementing the recovery plan in the field of air quality improvement in Poland. The aim of the Act is therefore to establish a legal basis for pilot testing the programme of thermomodernisation of single-family buildings belonging to the energy poor in a model providing for close financial and organisational cooperation between the Council of Ministers and municipal authorities. The entry into force of the measures proposed by the Act will allow the start of spending the amount of PLN 180 million allocated in the framework of the last year's amendment of the state budget to the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund to support the thermomodernisation of housing buildings of less wealthy Poles. This will be done by paying funds to municipalities from the list of 31 cities below 100,000 inhabitants on the World Health Organisation list. Activating the resources available in the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund for the support of thermomodernisation, combined with the decommissioning of high-carbon heat sources in energy poor housing, will enable the start of signing cooperation agreements with municipalities. In view of the above, the amendment to the Law of 21 November 2008 on the promotion of the thermomodernisation and renovation of houses is as follows: firstly, the establishment of a definition of low-carbon project and low-carbon standards; secondly, the introduction of provisions governing low-carbon projects and municipal low-carbon programmes; thirdly, the adoption of solutions whereby low-carbon projects included in the municipal low-carbon programme will be implemented by means of an agreement concluded by the Minister responsible for the economy with the municipality, who is ready to participate in the financing of the decommissioning or replacement of old heating equipment for new low-carbon standards and, at the same time, the thermomodernisation of single-family housing for energy poor people. Fourthly, it is about defining the catalogue of persons with whom the municipality can conclude a low-carbon project contract. The persons designated as beneficiaries of such an undertaking must comply with the conditions laid down in the Act. The beneficiary must include: be the owner, co-owner, self-owner or co-holder of all or part of a residential building and actually reside in it. It should also be a person with sufficiently low income, not exceeding the limits laid down in the Act. The amendment also lays down the obligations of the municipality to ensure that the results of the low-carbon project are maintained within 10 years from the date of completion of the agreement, as well as the rules on the reimbursement of the costs of the low-carbon project by the beneficiary, in particular in the case of a transfer by the beneficiary within 10 years of the completion of the agreement in whole or in part of the ownership or ownership of the joint ownership or ownership of the self-contained building or premises in which the low-carbon project was carried out. The amendments to the Construction Law provide for the abolition of the need to obtain a construction permit for the construction of a low pressure gas pipeline and enable it to be constructed on the basis of a notification. The Energy Efficiency Act introduced changes to allow energy efficiency certificates for low-carbon projects under municipal low-carbon programmes. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, low-carbon agreements are concluded by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs with the municipality until 31 December 2024. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after its announcement. Amendments were accepted, mainly legislative amendments. And that's basically all I'm presenting to you. I'm asking for this bill to be passed by the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u118	Thank you very much for the comprehensive report. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u119	In substance, the joint committees, which at their meeting dealt with this draft law, dealt with exactly the same draft law as the economic committee, so I will not introduce the substance of this very, very important project. This is a project that fills a gap, a gap in respect of energy, especially heat energy, and meets the expectation of the poorest layers of Polish society, those layers which so far in the new Poland, in terms of respect for electricity and heat energy, were in fact unnoticed. Now the representatives of these layers as individuals, not institutional ones, have the chance to realize the thermomodernization. This in turn will translate into 2 very important goals, which will be achieved: firstly, energy saving, and secondly, reducing the pollution of Polish air. With regard to air pollution, the official here of the Government for Clean Air, Mr Piotr Woźny, pointed out at the meeting of the joint committees, in substance, in answer to the questions precisely, the reasons why the very specific provisions of the Act sound so and not different. The senators took a deep look at the proposed law, as the questions asked indicated. The questions asked at the committee meeting were essentially not political. Those were strict questions. the substance resulting from certain concerns, from certain ambiguities which have been clarified. In particular, it was explained why this bill was addressed... where the records of towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants came from. It has been explained that this is not a restriction on towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants. The point is that these towns, in their opinions, in the analyses of non-governmental analytical units, concern energy poverty, that is where more than 80% of the population is located. ...In the explanation of the ministry, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, present here, falls by 87%. It is in these towns that the greatest energy poverty is. The Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, wants to get there and wants to help. It was also explained that this programme would not work, as it was intended, since the 20th of one year there had been doubts here. But it's gonna work a lot, a lot before that. It's just that a certain source of funding has been going on since that year. It was also noted that cities that have problems with air quality and whose population exceeds 100,000... Their projects will also be analysed and taken into account. The answers, I think, satisfied the senators present at the senator's committee meeting. The proposed amendments were partly justified in the opinion of the clean government representative... [[It's clean air.]] Clean air, that's right, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. They found confirmation. The High Commission requests the adoption of the proposed amendment act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister. Hello, Your Agent. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. There you go. We invite the Minister to the stand. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, earlier on the World Health Organization list there were 33 Polish cities. In 2018, there were 36 out of 50 cities in Europe, which means the curve is growing. This is undoubtedly scary. My question concerns the entry in the Act, Art. 11c. It's just... I'll quote it. The implementation of low-carbon projects shall cover not less than 2% and not more than 12% the total number of single-family dwellings in the commune area, excluding cities with a population of more than 100 000. The list also lists 50 cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. It's important to look at the angle where the standards are exceeded. So I have a question for you. What will it look like in cities with up to 100,000 inhabitants? That's the 70 and 30, that's the share. And if they can benefit from it, as it was said, also cities with more than 100,000, on what basis? The next question is who can benefit from this aid at all, i.e. what conditions of poverty must be met in order to be able to benefit from such aid at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. Indeed, the law deals first and foremost with the cities of the World Health Organisation, those up to 100,000 inhabitants and once again, although the rapporteur has told me how I think in a comprehensive way, I will tell you why these cities. First of all, because as far as the population of these 36 cities is concerned, the largest number of cities is up to 100,000 inhabitants. That's one thing. Secondly, the number of households affected by energy poverty is the largest in these cities. Therefore, the expected effect of this intervention will be better precisely because it is primarily addressed to these cities. As it has been said... The senator also asked why in this range: not less than 2% , not more than 12% ... 2% It's a matter of triviality. As the senator remembers, the bill provides for the preparation of a plan so that the municipality can show in a credible way how many of these households are, and indicate the technologies and ways involved in both the modernisation and the connection to the network if it happens. So that's the 2%. is to ensure that the expenditure incurred in preparing this plan is justified and is effectively consumed. As far as cities are concerned, more than 100,000 inhabitants, as is the law, art. 38, if I remember correctly, I look at your attorney who knows this bill by heart... Art. 38 says that in cities above 100,000 inhabitants we will operate on the basis of individual agreements, because this law assumes a certain rigid parity in terms of funding. In the case of cities up to 100,000 inhabitants we say: 30% of the contribution of own municipalities and 70% the contribution from the State budget. For larger cities Let's say that these are cities with a larger budget, and we're going to be discussing a parity of support. It will continue to be 100% as far as the final beneficiary is concerned. Only the source of origin will probably have a slightly different proportion. First of all, and this is also important, we will not hesitate, because we will be able to launch these measures from 1 January, if we assume the successful course of further legislative work. The appropriations shall be provided in the thermomodernisation fund. For the first 2 years it is PLN 180 million and, this is also what you have raised many times, it is certainly sufficient resources. Let me remind you again that this also requires organizational work on the part of local governments. You are already in constant contact with all the local authorities that are in this first tranche, among the most deprived. They're already getting ready for this. [[Excuse me, I have a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u124	There was a second part of the question, Minister. Who's gonna be able to use it? Will Jan Kowalski, who has such and such income, be able to benefit, or just... who will be able to benefit from this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u125	Income criteria related to the category of energy poverty are similar to those of the Social Assistance Act, those are those which authorise the benefit of social assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u126	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I once asked a question at a committee meeting, but you weren't... I didn't get a complete answer, and I'd like to ask you for it. In Gorzów Wielkopolski, this is my district, solved the problem through, excellent anyway, the program "Kawka". I must say, Minister, it was something that worked out. I can say... Patience of the inhabitants who, as they learned about low emissions... Getting rid of those horrible ovens... That's what made the Gorzów breathe. What's going on with this program, and why aren't we continuing it? According to my knowledge, and I have it full, the Kawka programme perfectly solved this problem in the cities you are talking about. Self-governments, together with those who, let's call it, do low emissions, power plants or power plants, deal with this problem. One would like to say: you must not change something that meets the expectations. I don't follow the way it is in the country. But isn't it worth it if this program has been abandoned to return to it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u128	Thank you, Senator, for that question. I am from Małopolska, so I know the program "Kawka" and its first edition quite well. And I also remember the discussion when the program was closed. However, let us recall the scope of this programme. The Kawka programme was not an investment programme. As a rule, it was an educational programme in the first place. It was a question of financing thermomodern auditors who, as apostles of good change, were to reach the needy and then, on the basis of this audit, which was either taken into account or not taken into account, financed or programmed funds for the replacement of furnaces. Experience from Małopolska clearly indicates that in this first programme the funding for the replacement of boilers was not made to those people, which we defined very precisely in this act. The funding was received by people who could primarily make their own contributions, and we are talking about people who would not be able to do so when financing expensive equipment and thermomodernisation, because they could not afford 20%, at 10% and even 3% of own contribution. So, the modification... By creating this project, which we are preparing today in conjunction with a large programme launched in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, we draw conclusions from the program "Coffee." So it's not like it was a coffee program, and now there's nothing, there's a desert. It seems to us, and the rest of it is confirmed by the social organisations that participated in the first tranche of support and assistance, that this programme is much better sewn up to meet real needs. Because the experience and audits that have been carried out indicate that the number of fireplaces that were intended to be exchanged is not reduced as quickly as the flow of funds would indicate to reduce the local government. Why? Because houses or house owners appear in the system, which really can afford to replace the heat source, but as it is possible to use it, they obviously benefit from it. So, I think we're aware of how the coffee program worked. I will add that in this program we also assume that we do not want to burn money in furnaces, even those from Ecodesign. Therefore, we assume that a thermal audit will be carried out before a decision is taken on the amount of funding needed for thermomodernisation and for the replacement of heat sources.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u129	If that's okay... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'm trying to tell you. If I understand the Minister correctly, then the Kawka programme is not abandoned, it is, let's call it, modernised.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u130	Both the programme that I am offering today and which is in this law, as well as the one that the National Environment Fund offers, which is even wider, is de. In fact, consumption, I think, the achievements of the program "Kawka" and improvement, modernizing what was. [[You calmed me down, Minister. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u131	I'm so glad you've been calmed down, Senator. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u132	Minister, I also asked at the committee's meeting why the issue of the size of cities was adopted. This argument, which you presented here, was also presented, but I believe that we have a very rich experience in addressing government programmes in various fields. I still cannot understand why the profitability of the municipality has not been taken into account, why the degree of pollution has not been taken into account, why the financial possibilities of the municipality have not been taken into account. Not just per capita income. Today, as you well know, investments from EU funds are standing in many places because they do not have their own contribution. And we can have such situations that a very rich community with clean air by the sea... We can trade it. Yes? These are the leaders of profitability. They're gonna be able to use it, and the others aren't gonna. So I'm a little surprised, because here a fairly simple algorithm could be arranged that would allow you to reach where needs are greatest, the chances of realization exist, and profitability is small. Why wasn't that done? That's the question I didn't get an exhaustive answer at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u133	Mr. Senator, we can always create or add other algorithms Some can be better, some can be worse. These criteria we have adopted seem to be really precise. I also explain to all of you that these measures will not go to any coastal community, to any coastal city, because there we breathe with our lungs, there in any applications that indicate the level of pollution, the indicator shines green. Therefore, municipalities where the indicator is green are not beneficiaries of this scheme. We're talking about municipalities... Sorry, color connotation is unrelated to the political color of these cities. We're talking about those cities that are on the WHO list, as we said earlier, the 50 most polluted cities. 36 cities among them are Polish cities, and 21 of them, if I remember correctly, are cities of up to 100,000 inhabitants. We didn't study the wealth of these municipalities, we didn't examine the parameters. But if you look at the list of these cities, you will see that they are not the most prosperous cities in Poland today. And like I said, the wealth of the residents' wallets... Firstly, the population density in single-family homes in these cities is the highest in relation to larger cities. In larger cities we basically live in multi-family construction. That's why it's a criterion. And the second criterion. The wealth of the inhabitants of these cities is much lower than others. And as I said, this is not an exclusion programme, this is an inclusive programme, and if we are talking about larger cities with a high level of pollution, then we will negotiate financial participation on a different basis. I will remind you of one more thing, because the senator mentioned the deficits in the budgets of the municipalities of those potentially... municipalities for which support is envisaged in the first place. These municipalities, these cities are mainly present in the area of voivodships covered by anti-smog resolutions. The adoption of an anti-smog resolution by regional governments I understand in this way that the regional government also takes financial interventions within the own resources of the local government to deal with the fight for clean air to be low emissions. Plus... The attorney attends every day, on an ongoing basis. He just got back from Brussels. In the programming work of the next financial perspective, where this programme and this law are identified as one of the exemplary ones and recommended to regional authorities to programme regional measures in a similar way. Therefore, the creation of financial assembly in the first place for these municipalities will also be possible in cooperation with voivodship authorities and I think it would be good for us to consolidate support areas in order to achieve a better effect at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, energy poverty also affects the villagers very strongly. I live in the countryside and I observe the phenomenon of aging villagers who live in single-family homes with relatively large areas. And they will be in an increasingly difficult situation due to rising maintenance costs, especially energy costs. The State has such a policy of support in various forms. We have a clean air program, now there's another program. I have a question for you. Should we not consider changing the Renewable Energy Act in such a way as to extend the prosumer issue so that it is possible not only to consume energy for its own needs but also to sell this energy and thus improve the household balance? All the more so because we see energy prices falling from renewable sources. This is shown by the last auctions, which are below PLN 200 per megawatt hour, for so much energy will be produced. In conclusion, once again, wouldn't it be worth seeing? is it in this context that this programme should simultaneously allow the production of energy within distributed sources, in micro-installations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u136	Thank you very much. This question, of course, goes beyond the matter of this law. Commenting on this, I can say that, if I remember correctly, the RES Act and the question of approach to prosumers is one of the following elements on the list of activities of Minister Piotr Woźny, the representative for the "Clean Air" programme. So that I think you will soon meet in the Senate with another legislative approach to the RES Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u137	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How is this law that we are currently considering for the Clean Air programme, which is implemented in the Voivodship Environmental Funds? Is she next to him or is it contained in him or is there some kind of temporal coincidence about these programs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u139	The Clean Air programme, the government programme, accepted and announced by Mr Mateusz Morawicki, consists of 14 points. One of them is the one that deals with energy poverty. This is a law that gives legal grounds to spend money on thermomodernization. The programme implemented by the voivodship funds, by the National Environmental Protection Fund and the voivodship environmental funds, is complementary to this programme. Let me say more: spending money from a national fund on a programme with much more resources would be extremely difficult if we did not adopt this law. So this is part of a large government, 15-point program, which included the development of standards for solid fuels, the development of emission standards for boilers. The issue of energy poverty is one of the points high on the ranking list. So that these are complementary programs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u140	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for all your answers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Any law that improves the environment, and this is particularly important when it comes to air, requires support and, of course, any action of this kind that will go in this direction, we will support it. So far, there have been many programs that have been implemented, among others. Mr. Senator mentioned the coffee program. Therefore, we know that we must go in this direction, that the replacement of heating and thermomodernisation is the basis, and in terms of clean air, it is especially the replacement of heating. And as much money as possible should be spent on it, taking as much action as possible because on this list, as you can see, we look, well, not so good not to say, terrible. Ladies and gentlemen, not as long ago as I remember, we were talking about the construction of local roads. I remember this discussion. I myself spoke about the fact that the funds from the National Environmental Protection Fund, which should be earmarked for thermal insulation, for the exchange of heating, should not be used for other purposes. And you will remember that PLN 1.4 billion each year has been allocated to the construction of local roads. Maybe next year, because it's not until July that the applications can be submitted, this program will eventually start, well, somewhere near the end of next year. But the money, the funds were blocked for it. And then we noticed that they were... We do not deny the construction of local roads, because local roads also need to be built, but funding needs to be found. There were also funds from other sources, but in our opinion there was no need for funds from the National Environmental Fund. The Minister spoke of those cities, which are 33 or 36, you said that perhaps 21 cities on this list are up to 100,000 cities, which means there are more than 100,000 cities and smaller cities. And of course, the minister said... That's why I specifically asked this question, what are the criteria. Well, they're from the Social Services Act. So I don't really know why we're releasing people in big cities, since there's a lot on this list of cities. The World Health Organization clearly states what is happening in Poland, that in Poland it is very bad, that in 50 such cities 36 cities are cities in Poland, which require intervention as soon as possible. Therefore, such a distinction between cities over 100,000 and up to 100,000, when the criterion is from the Social Services Act... And notice that in these big cities... A colleague here just talked about the situation in the countryside that there is energy poverty. Of course it is. But consider that in a large city one residential building, which we can modernise, change in it for example. Heating... And such buildings can cause air pollution in a large area when we have dense buildings. Therefore, I do not really understand why we want to exclude the city from this bill. Of course, we do not turn them off completely, because it is said that contracts will be concluded there on some other basis and that we will also be able to benefit from this assistance. I understand that when it comes to these programs, marshals, etc., there are other activities involved, and they all overlap that we should take action to make the air really cleaner and to improve the statistics. We remember the data we often get about pollution, about pyle PM10, PM2.5, etc., about how it looks. That is also an important criterion. And you could direct the resources first and foremost where there is the greatest pollution, which is exactly where the data we know is the worst. But we're not going that way in this bill. I don't know why we're sharing cities here. I don't want to talk about political considerations anymore. Although it could also be said that in big cities, choices are different. etc. But why are we sharing them? Why do we share in the city law if the criteria are the same, i.e. social assistance? There are no poor people who live in big cities and those who live in smaller cities. They do not differ from each other, they simply have too little income and therefore have to benefit from the aid. That is why I tabled two amendments at the committee meeting, but they were not, so to speak, recognised by the committees. The first amendment concerns the deletion of this provision, which refers to the exclusion of cities in excess of 100,000 inhabitants. Her consequence... Because there's another entry in point 5 that concerns 30%... and that amendment also includes the consequence of the deletion of that entry. So that's the amendment I made. I also tabled a second amendment. The point is, it's also incomprehensible that if someone gets help, And we're talking about people who actually... As far as social assistance is concerned, you know what the amount of income is there. And here's a record that, in my opinion, also discourages the use of this solution, and discourages it from saying: if you have benefited from this help and you have received 70% Grant, if you want to sell your property in five years, you're gonna have to return that grant. And I don't get it very much, because the building stays where it's been, because nobody's gonna move it to another place, and we're really gonna take care of the air so that this clean air is also in the neighborhood. And that's the right direction. But here it turns out that if you own No, there are other provisions about the self-owner, etc., etc. And in five years, you'll sell the building, and then you'll have to pay it back in full. Well, if it's six, seven, eight, nine years, until ten, you won't return the whole thing, just pay back a little less, every year it'll be a little less, a little less, until you get to those ten years. But little of that, now it's all gonna have to be controlled, recorded. So what does that mean now? The point is that the local government will again be burdened with the obligation to carry out further statistics, control all of this, counting, etc., etc. I don't really know what that's for. If someone's decided to upgrade and the building stays in the same place... Therefore, my second amendment concerns the deletion of this article in its entirety, which states that this grant should be reimbursed, e.g. within 5 years the whole. Taking care of the environment, for clean air, etc., we must take into account that the rules should be clean, transparent, clear, and therefore divide in some way the cities that count to 100,000 inhabitants. In Silesia... Well, I won't mention... I don't know how you from Silesia will vote in favour of this bill, but there are many cities with fewer than 100,000 inhabitants, more than 100,000 people, and so on, and so on, when... Let me remind you once again that this criterion is in the field of social assistance, so whether I live on the border of the city or in a big city or live in the country... Or maybe it's just that the border will run between my neighbor and me, and maybe my neighbor will get a grant, and I won't get it. Such divisions are completely unjustified. Mr. Marshal, once again, once again, because the amendments I have tabled have not been accepted... The Commission has to meet anyway. There are two committees... the amendments will still have to be considered, so once again, once again, Mr. Marshal, I am making these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u142	Thank you. [[I didn't sign, I'm sorry... now.]] Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I signed up, I wanted to talk about this issue that Senator Florek, as the other one, raised. I'm talking about these refunds. I don't think these phrases are necessary either. As far as we're concerned about the change in infrastructure in order to permanently improve environmental factors... Yeah, it's a permanent effect. If we accept the correct argument That the value of the property will increase... But is it bad, or is it good? Well, that's good. That's when she's always gonna grow. It's a good thing you've even remembered the issue of inheritance. It would only be if it turned out that in such a case the funds had to be returned. You'd think so if you thought the value of the property had increased. I admit, Minister, if someone shoots a shield with the assumption that if they zoom in with a 60% shot, it's gonna be a pretty good score, so it's not really... Of these 36 cities 21 are on the list, so that about 60% these decisions will be accurate, and about 30% will not concern those places that are in urgent need. Of course, one could say that there is another way, that if these are larger cities, they can negotiate and so on. Minister, but this is going on the path of a certain servility, which the senator has touched very gently here. However, it is politically decomposing, although the Minister very skillfully escaped from this green color. Nevertheless, I would insist that this is a solution that uses imprecise tools and that it is very easy to imagine a better approach to those who have money and who can invest I'm talking about local governments. Where there is a very large number of single-family houses emitting bad exhaust gases, where there is the most urgent need and chance of implementation. What you are proposing is not such a tool in any way It's very gruesome, only approximate. I look here at the Senators from Silesia and I wonder how many of them can be satisfied. And yet this is a region that should be at the forefront of funding. That's not gonna happen unless after some long negotiation. Minister, to say that local governments have adopted the appropriate programmes and that they could, for their part, complement those shortages that would have local authorities at a lower level, is, however, a reference to something that is highly uncertain. Because voivodship authorities can have completely different criteria, different preferences and no money need to be in this mix, including assembly. That is why I admit that I support Senator Flork's amendments in all its lengths. And I'm counting on it. But we will reflect on these rules so as to increase the chances of local governments and individuals to reach for this money. Nevertheless, I would like to end by saying, as a man who has been involved in social policy for years, that energy poverty is being recognised here. It's actually very good in this bill. And meet the needs of many poor people who today... In my constituency, local government polled people asking if they smoked plastic and why. And unfortunately, it was very often said that, out of lack of resources, simply out of poverty. So this problem is noticed in this bill, that's good. However, it seems that it could be better, more precise. To be honest, from such a good minister, Minister, I expected more precise tools.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u144	What a compliment. [[That's what I think.]] [[Ad vocem.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u145	Since the Senators of Silesia have been addressed here, I would like to say, Senator, that I am pleased with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u146	Thank you. [[Well, I don't know if your constituents are happy.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In order not to destroy the properly held sitting, I will only briefly refer to these two proposals. As for the first one, regarding the validity of the limits and the validity of the refunds, this is a minor adjustment, because I said 21 cities on the list that you were talking about, and this is 31 cities. Thus, only 10 of the list of WHO's most polluted cities are not in the first intervention group. If we're talking about the criteria for selecting beneficiaries, whether they're sharp or out of focus... Well, they seem to be very transparent. And I think the greatest advantage of this law is its simplicity, communicationability and ease of implementation. And the fact that it is, I don't mean it unjustly, because the way and the rules What you were worried about was that it was conditional. and harmonisation of measures... After all, we want to spend public funds well, meaningfully and reliably, regardless of who is responsible for them. And this has already been agreed and agreed e.g. with the local government of Małopolska Voivodship. So choice and selection, if we are talking about this area of social assistance and the law, and more specifically about housing additions, is an article. 11 of this law, paragraph 2 and certain criteria... Those who are subject to this, who meet the criteria to benefit from this support programme... These criteria are in the case of multi-family, multi-member households income of PLN 1 thousand 250 net per person and in the case of single-member households PLN 1 thousand 750. So, as I say, it seems that the criterion is transparent, very sharp and very clear. Why do these cities first and not others? It doesn't show. I'm gonna go back to the colors. Only because, as I said, the largest number of people living in energy poverty and living in single-family homes live in small towns and not in large cities. In big cities And I think everyone in this room knows that. The poorest people live in multi-family homes, and multi-family homes have been successfully modernised by means of the thermomodernisation fund. Over the past few years, this has allowed Poland to warm up in large cities, in these larger cities, in a really effective way, for which we are grateful. We also see this in energy efficiency data. These programs gain universal approval and hence such an approach. This choice seems really justified. Of course, you can always say there's more... Yeah, there's more cities on that list. Thanks to the expanding measurement system, we'll probably have even more accurate data, but we'll have to start somewhere. Looks like we're starting to... Well, if we take this programme as a pilot, it will allow us, firstly, to structure this moment of government cooperation with the local government, secondly, to carry out rapid and efficient energy audits of buildings and, thirdly, to transfer funds where it is most needed, so that the effect that we are assuming through this intervention is really achieved. Receiving the grant you mentioned to the senator... Well, Mr. Senator, I would like to quote again an example from my native Krakow, where this kind of grant was made three years ago to a person who, in his estate statement... Because this person was the councillor, the chairman of the ecology commission at the City Council of Krakow, received full funding of PLN 37 thousand for the exchange of heat sources. So they were obtained by someone who did not really need such support, and who could simply do so with their own resources or with an attractive loan. These measures should not, in short, have gone to that person. So, if we're talking... Of course, the environmental impact is important and whether this is a house that will be sold in a moment or not is not important for air quality, but is important for the efficiency of the funds spent. This is a program which aims not to increase the value of real estate, but to improve air quality. And this degradation, when it comes to the amount of return over time... Well, of course we understand that property law always works. At the same time, we don't see... If a person uses it today, and in 2, 3, 4 years, God forbid, her material status will improve, then she will not have to make such a return. However, we would not want these measures to actually be used to raise the value of real estate, which will then be put up for sale. I mean raising this value for public funds. That's why it's a proposition. So this is, it seems, a really good bill. Thank you for this bitter and sweet assessment of our activity, but this law is really good, also thanks to the amendments that the state has tabled in the parliamentary legislative cycle. She's making clear criteria. The beneficiaries They're really waiting for this. And let's do... Let's consider this a joint self-government exercise. A good, effective implementation of these measures, especially in the first two years, will allow us, I think, to design this type of public policy for the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 990 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 990 A and 990 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! On 14 November, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held to review the Act amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. The aim of the Act is to simplify and facilitate business activity. It represents a further stage in the implementation of the Government's Strategy for Responsible Development. We've already investigated a package of 100 changes for companies or business constitutions, and that's a continuation. The essence of the law is to reduce the bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs and to extend the existing powers to a wider category of operators. The Act eliminates interpretation doubts related to business law, introduces tax exemptions for entrepreneurs and risk mitigation measures related to the application of tax rules. The objectives pursued are to amend 34 existing laws. Changes in tax law: standardization of local tax forms, and in the income tax legislation, the liquidation of obligations which do not directly affect tax settlements and concern circumstances which can be determined on the basis of other documents; extension of the time limit for choosing the method and form of taxation of income tax generated by individuals; increase to EUR 2 million of income threshold which entitles a small taxpayer to obtain the status of a small taxpayer; enable the taxpayer's spouse to include in the cost of obtaining income of labour value; allow a one-off settlement of the tax loss of up to PLN 5 million; exemption from income tax of compensation granted for the recovery of the damaged property; exemption from income tax of alternative investment companies obtained from the sale of shares or shares of companies, provided that the alternative investment company held not less than 10% for at least 2 years shares or shares in the capital of the company. The Accounting Act: considers micro individuals, civil companies and civil partnerships of natural persons and undertakings in succession, public companies of natural persons, partner companies and undertakings in succession acting in accordance with the Act of 5 July 2018 on the management of a successful natural person's company, if the net revenue of these units from the sale of goods, products and financial operations amounted to no less than EUR 2 million in Polish currency and no more than EUR 3 million in the previous financial year; increases the number of units which will be able to benefit from simplifications for small entities as a result of increasing the thresholds for this category of units from PLN 17 million to PLN 25,5 million in the case of the sum of assets of the balance sheet and from PLN 34 million to PLN 51 million in the case of net revenue from the sale of goods and services; increases the thresholds empowering entities to apply simplifications in the accounting records for the classification of leasing contracts in a simplified manner; micro, small units and parts of non-governmental organisations are allowed to waive the creation of reserves for liabilities and write-downs of the value of assets; shortening up to 5 years of the mandatory retention of approved financial statements. The Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals: the obligation to keep an income card, records of equipment, employment records is abolished; the time to notify the choice of form of taxation by the 20th day of the month following the month in which the taxable person achieved his first income in the tax year or by the end of the tax year if the first such income was achieved in December of the tax year. The Civil Act allows taxable persons to submit a summary declaration and to pay a single tax on all contracts. The Goods and Services Tax Act eliminates the obligation to submit, together with a statement of the reasoned request for reimbursement and an application for reimbursement in an accelerated period of time, and the relief for bad debts is accepted for regulatory provisions. The Customs Law sets at EUR 10 a threshold from which persons liable will bear the costs of destruction or disposal by other means and the costs associated with its storage. It is also possible to authenticate a copy of the mandate granted and a document confirming the scope of the rights to use the services offered by lawyers, legal advisers, tax advisers. The Excise Tax Act shall adapt the Combined Nomenclature codes used in accordance with the current codes to eliminate the obligation for an entity using electricity to transfer to the Head of the Tax Office for the purpose of chemical reduction or in electrolytic processes... etc. With regard to economic law, the Civil Code shall be amended and rules shall be laid down for the confirmation of contracts concluded by a person acting as a body of a legal person without being established or exceeded. The Commercial Companies Code specifies who and how members of the management board of a capital company should make declarations of their resignation, clarify the rules for the company's representation in liquidation, lay down rules for the repayment by shareholders of advances paid in respect of dividends, provides for the possibility to appoint a non-partner to the management board of a partnership and allows shareholders to adopt resolutions in writing outside the shareholders' meeting. circulation mode. The Act on the Administration of Foreign Trade of Goods eliminates the obligation of mandatory inclusion in the application for a permit for translation of documents and excludes the obligation arising from k.p.a. the obligation for traders to submit a mandate document to each application. The Labour Code improves the ability of an employer with up to 50 employees to perform the tasks of health and safety at work and to qualify as a risk category. higher than the third within the meaning of the social insurance rules with the current limit of 20 employees and the obligation to provide health and safety training for workers employed in the lowest accident rates is limited. The Social Insurance Cash Insurance Act allows the Social Security Office to notify insured persons of temporary checks of incapacity for work not only through the postal operator, but also through employees of the Social Security Office or other designated persons and by telephone or electronic means of communication, as well as the obligation for the Social Security Office to obtain a return receipt of the notification. The Law on Sobriety and Antitrust Education limits the formal requirements for the submission of an application for a wholesale marketing authorisation for alcohol drinks, allows holders of a wholesale marketing authorisation to supply alcoholic beverages to ships, trains and aircraft, as well as the possibility of a one-off payment of a licence for the sale of alcohol. The Food Safety and Nutrition Act allows for the receipt by the district health inspector of mobile gastronomy in another district city than that in which the trader is registered. The law on road traffic modifies the definition of "motorcycle." The Act on Transport Law, the Act on Driving Vehicles, the Act on Arms and Ammunition, the Act on Investment Funds and the Management of Alternative Investment Funds, the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, the Act on Nature Protection and the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of Housing or Single Family House abolishes the obligation to use a registered stamp or a company stamp as a requirement for formal documents produced by economic operators. The Civil Code and the Commercial Companies Code Act... This also applies to the transitional provision related to the amendments to that law. These provisions will enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. Amendments to the Agricultural Tax Act will enter into force on 1 July 2019. The amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act will enter into force from 1 January 2020. The Commission asks the High Senate to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance also dealt with this law on 16 November this year. The objective of simplifying and facilitating business activity as well as the subject matter and areas of change in tax law and economic law was discussed by Senator Stanisławek. Let me add that this is a government presentation. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology is responsible for this law. The proposed amendments to 34 laws were discussed by my predecessor. At the committee meeting, we discussed the amendments that were tabled. Ten such amendments were tabled. The legislator immediately warned that these were technical and specific amendments which did not affect the substantive content of the law. The Minister referred to them and said that he would gladly accept these amendments in the next amendment, but now, if it were possible, it is better that we do not consider them, because, as I said, they do not affect the substance of the law. The discussion was attended by Senator Klein, who asked about the rules, the grounds for the use of stamps. Since the Council of Ministers has committed all ministries to submit such information by the end of July next year, the exact answer to this question will be known. Then we moved on to a vote that concerned the adoption of a law without amendments. This vote was unanimously decided, and the committee therefore asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. I would like to thank both rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Mariusz Halady, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine signed up for the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! As Senators of the Platforms in general, we support this project. We believe that it contains solutions that are beneficial for entrepreneurs. From my point of view, the most valuable thing is to remove the absurdity that was that the remuneration of the spouse working in the company could not be included in the cost. Every government struggled with it. It took, like, a dozen years to look forward to this moment. That's worth noticing. But there's no way on this occasion when we're talking about entrepreneurs... Well, it should be noted that although the announcements are noisy, we have a specific constitution, and the whole set of laws, then when, Minister, you visit companies And it happens to me, I've been called by companies lately, and they're going to these companies and they're asking, "Do you guys have a better economy now, or worse?" I'm the one who hasn't met people who say it's better. What does that tell you? Well, the question is, do you pay more or less?, the majority answers that more. I'm talking about taxes. When we ask if any bureaucratic commitments have really disappeared in the company, most people say they didn't notice the difference. And when we look at the general operating conditions of companies, then we usually talk about two issues that entrepreneurs are hurting, they are vital for their functioning and are largely caused by the government. The first, of course, concerns the labour market, the lack of workers. Reliable activities in the area of certain family allowances, non-faulty activities in reducing retirement age have aggravated the situation known to be coming. The absence of a detention programme for foreigners who work here and fill gaps in the labour market is also a very serious negligence. In a moment, the German market will open for workers from Ukraine. There are only a few dozen days left. We're not prepared for this at all. You don't even talk about it, let alone do something. Today, Minister, we have spent a lot of time talking about energy prices, about what companies get, what local governments get. I came out of this debate, former Vice President Leszna, and he says: "Yes, we got: 62% higher offer for the purchase of energy for the local government in Leszno. I could be here to really not be literal, to list specific companies showing me suggestions that these increases are going to be 70%. And more. So on the one hand we have some government attempts, we do not criticize them if they lead in the right direction. But at the same time, there are projects, cases, problems of a completely different category, much more serious issues that are not being taken up, about which too little is being done, and which make companies in many cases wondering about their future, as the research of the PMI indicator shows slowly shows, which confirms that when it comes to the overall assessment, it is becoming increasingly difficult for entrepreneurs to be optimistic. Let's hope this bill changes a bit. At the committee meeting, I asked if the ministry was making such a balance sheet... Because this is where we work together, Mr. and Mrs. Senators. How many laws have we adopted here that have imposed new obligations on entrepreneurs? A whole bunch of them already. And I asked if you were doing that balance sheet, how much you take, how much you add, and what's the result. Well, it turns out, unfortunately, there is no such thing as awareness in the ministry. So this is a little bit like rowing even in the right direction and maybe using even a lot of power, but against the current, which sometimes ministers themselves produce with their laws, sometimes with unthinkable ideas, which have some goals, but do not take into account other politicians. They have e.g. social objectives, rather than taking into account other policies. And then it turns out that those who carry weights instead of having lighter ones I say per balance, without questioning any positive attempts, they are not at all in good condition and are not satisfied. So that, Minister, the law brings with it positive elements, but we look forward to decisive action that would respond to these most important real problems of Polish companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: The discussion is still closed.]] The discussion is closed. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1004, the report of the Commission in print No 1004 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Senate! I present a report on the work of the National Defence Commission on 20 November 2018 on the Act amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, Senate printing No 1004. The content of the Act is essentially one amendment in the Act of 25 May 2001 and this amendment consists in changing the ten-year planning period for a fifteen-year period. This is a government project that the Sejm adopted on 9 November. The bill was voted in favour of 389 Members against the '21. The Legislative Office has not tabled any proposals for amendments to the Act. During the committee's deliberations, questions were raised about the President's participation in the project-making procedure and the possibility of annexing the projects. Following the adoption of the explanations, the committee unanimously approved the bill and recommended that the High Senate adopt the law without amendment. In the title of a slightly extended justification, I will quote a passage from this mother's law, which in the article. In paragraph 1, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: The purpose of the Act is to provide conditions for the progressive achievement by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland of full interoperability within the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Since the North Atlantic Treaty has moved on to 15-year planning, it is therefore appropriate to adapt the Polish way of working on such projects to this 15-year mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u156	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. [[There are no volunteers.]] I'm telling you no one signed up for this. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and certain other laws. The text of the law is contained in print No 993, and the report of the committee In print No 993 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the Act amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and certain other laws. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 9 November 2018. The purpose of this law is to amend the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014. This change consists in the creation of a new government administration, i.e. the Chief Maritime Fisheries Inspector. The new body will be located in Słupsk. This body will carry out its duties through the Chief Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate. This inspector will replace the three regional fisheries inspectors currently operating in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin. The Chief Inspector and the Chief Inspector shall assume the rights and obligations of existing public and private law bodies and offices, including the role of administrative authorities. Those who hold the position of the Regional Maritime Fisheries Inspectors and their alternates employed before the date of entry into force of the Act on the basis of appointment will receive a proposal for employment in the Chief Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate as Senior Maritime Fisheries Inspector. Staff employed under a contract of employment in the current district inspectors as of the date of entry into force of the Act will become employees of the Main Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate by 1 March 2019. If they receive a proposal for further employment by that date and accept it, they will become employees on the basis set out in that proposal. If they do not receive the proposal or accept it, their employment relationship will expire. For those workers whose employment relationship has expired, checks have been provided at a level higher than those provided for in the Law on special rules for the termination of employment relationships for reasons not affecting workers. The amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act also provide for the possibility to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels in accordance with the principle of species per species. The provisions concerning the register of fishing vessels have also been amended by adapting them to Union regulations and an obligation has been introduced for the master of the fishing vessel to include in the monthly catch report of the species of marine organisms caught by vessels below 8 m in overall length. This will allow more accurate fishing data to be collected, which is very important in the context of the deterioration of the Baltic Sea's resources. The Act also prohibits recreational fishing during the capture of the waters. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees, Senator Florek tabled 4 amendments, which were legislative amendments, selected from the 7 proposals put forward by the legislator. But these amendments were not accepted by the committee, so they were rejected by 2 joint committees. Senator Pekkis has filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendment. This request was accepted by the committee. So, Mr. Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the 2 joint committees The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Infrastructure I ask the High House to adopt the proposed law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u158	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Jackowski reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. You presented here the principles of the bill. And what is the purpose, the main purpose of integrating these 3 inspectors, which are so far in Szczecin, in Słupsk and Gdynia, and creating one office of them? What is the purpose of this initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u160	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u161	As you know, there are 3 inspectors and everyone has their regulations, their control capabilities. There were simply inconsistent rules and such a possibility of uniform control... Well, there's an incoherence here. Therefore, it is simply, as set out here in the opinion, that it will become uniform and it will be possible to carry out a uniform audit. In addition to the fact that there will be a chief inspector, there will be at all 14 branches that will simply be subject to this chief inspector as well as to the main inspector.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u162	Senator Jackowski is asking another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u163	I have a question for you. Since we have received correspondence from trade union representatives, I will ask how these matters which the trade unionists raised, their arguments and demands they made, how they influenced the form of the law. Have these requests been taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u164	Yes, yes, they were taken into account at the Seym stage, because at this stage, Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, our former colleague, Senator, has now tabled 5 substantive amendments and one of these amendments concerns precisely these demands or the comments of the trade unions. This was the case, for example. that if the workers, as I said, did not get a job offer in one of the three inspectors I mentioned, i.e. If they either do not accept the proposal or do not offer anything to them in the new inspector, then they will receive checks. And these briefings are gonna be so high, it's just... It's good, and it's not, but in any case it's agreed with the unions that they assume it can be. They're just gonna have some sort of compensation for not being employees anymore. And I'll add that there's quite a lot out there. And that's what we're talking about here. Well, a lot of employees, who are before retirement age, are just at an advanced age. This solution is likely to satisfy these workers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u165	You're asking the senator the secretary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. rapporteur, I would like to ask you about the catch reports. Will the re-imposition of the obligation of the master of a fishing vessel to include in the monthly catch report catches and overfished species of marine organisms allow for a more accurate collection of fishing data and later to seek solutions in terms of deteriorating stocks of the Baltic Sea? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you. [[But it depends if...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u167	In such detail, that was not exactly what was said at the committee meeting. I just know it from an opinion, and I also analyzed what was said in the Seym. I was just trying to present not only what was on my committee, but I wanted to bring it up, and that's why I said it. Because, in fact, if there are no reports, let's say, then it's like there's no full clarity, there's incomplete data about the amount of fish caught. And if they're even... anyway, from what I know, it's probably even a requirement of the European Union, which wants to balance the quantities of fish caught in the first place. And that's why this bill was just... In the Seym, I think that this amendment was even adopted so that the masters of these vessels, which are up to 8 m long, would also include in these monthly reports just the amount of fish caught.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u168	Another question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u169	If I may, I'd like to ask you about these briefings. It was about that, but I'd like to be more specific. In what case will the staff allowance be relatively higher than that provided for in the Act, and who will it apply to? Was that mentioned, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u170	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. I would suggest, however, that the Minister present this problem in detail. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u171	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Was there any information at the committee meeting... Have you considered this country, have you asked what the total cost will be after the reorganisation and what is it before the reorganisation? And what will be the number of employees after the reorganisation, and what is before the reorganisation? And a second question about the employee case. I'm sure you're a union man. [[They were.]] They were. ...it's in her heart. I would like to ask you whether you have discussed the criteria that will be applied to those who do not get a job offer. Because you can slow down because someone doesn't like it, and you can do it according to certain rules and criteria. I am more in favour of the latter method of leaving an employer with an employee. That is why I ask: was this the subject of the committee's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u174	No, that wasn't at the committee meeting, nobody asked. It's just that I think everyone thought that the matter was settled between the trade unions and the government, that somehow it was negotiated. [[Yeah, well, if 5 gets thrown out, it doesn't matter.]] No, the trade unions had comments. I mean. I think it's probably because there weren't any comments from the trade unions either... As I understand it, this has been agreed between the government and the trade unions. And that's why there were no questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u175	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, was there a speech at the committee meeting... Because I understand that there is a mechanism here, that at the beginning of the implementation of the law will be that the President of the Council of Ministers will appoint a proxy who will prepare the entire structure for this reform. Can this proxy later become a general inspector in the light of the laws, or will it be the person who will say so? She's technically gonna merge, but someone else is gonna be that chief inspector? Can this person become one or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u178	Yes. The truth is, Senator Jackowski, that during this preparatory period a government representative will not perform his employer's duties, but will only represent him in his employment relations. There was no question of whether he could later be chief inspector or not, but I don't think there's any obstacle to him being that there's no obstacle. I think if there's no ban on the bill and if it meets, say, the conditions, it might be, but it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u179	No further questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Room voice: Bravo, Senator!]] Would Mr Grzegorz Witkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jackowski is asking a question. I'd like to see the Minister on the stand, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. First of all, I would ask you to respond to this issue that I raised by asking Senator Dobkowski a question: can a person who will be a proxy later serve as this general inspector? That's my first question. The second point is that the Act also bans recreational fishing during the capture of the waters. What periods can be involved here? Recreational fishing or even recreational shipping is very popular, especially during the summer, and tens of thousands of tourists who relax on the Polish sea enjoy this form of spending time. And isn't there gonna be a collision? Perhaps I don't know about it, but I would ask you to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u181	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Plenipotentiary was introduced into the Act as the Act enters into force on 1 January 2019. We designed to pass this bill around July, August this year. Unfortunately for various reasons, among others. The consultation with the trade unions that you have been asking about here has been postponed. These six months to prepare and merge the structure were time needed by the proxy. In the current situation, this attorney, if he's ever gonna... The Act will enter into force on 1 January, but the proxy will be able to be appointed before its entry into force. He's gonna have two or three months to prepare and then he's gonna be the general inspector of sea fishing. As far as the ban on recreation is concerned, this is a duplication of the current rules. As you rightly point out, in summer very rarely and on very distant waters is the process of stocking, so there will be no greater negative effect for shipowners who are engaged in recreational activities. Indeed, many people are leaving fishing, unfortunately. Our fishing is balanced in the sense that there are small family interests that work from generation to generation. With the current difficult situation in the Baltic Sea and the common fisheries policy pursued by the European Union, people often have to scrap boats. Their children do not take over the farm and are, in effect, fleeing into recreation, which turned out to be a great market. Many people, even from abroad, come to the Polish coast to do recreational fishing. We wanted to confirm it and strengthen it. We want to make sure that there's no such recreation during the period of stocking, but that's absolutely not gonna apply to summer periods.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u183	The senator wants to ask you another question or do you want to say something? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like the Minister to explain the operation of the mechanism of individual fishing quotas between ship owners. How's this gonna work? I understand there's probably gonna have to be a request from the ship owner. Will this office approve, or will the general inspector play a more active role here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u185	That's all the questions from the senator. If they're further, then... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u186	The exchange of fishing quotas regulates... The Minister responsible for fisheries is agreed here. This is not our invention, it is the requirement of EU legislation. It was the case that exchanges of fishing quotas could have been carried out between shipowners earlier, but they concerned different species. This led to a very pathological situation. There were so-called. trade under the table of various amounts. We have cut this short in the framework of the previous amendment. This will now be possible on a species-by-species basis. This will be done as it has been so far, only not between ships of the same ship owner, but between ship owners who operate on different waters of our coast. This is the way out to meet their expectations, because at different times there are different species on different stretches of the coast. And they, wanting to be more flexible... This is permitted by EU legislation, so we have simply helped them. So it's gonna be like this so far, it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u187	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u188	Thank you. Minister, I'm abstracting the validity of the merger right now. I assume, of course, that it is well-founded and appropriate. But there's always people with these kinds of surgeries. And it looks different. We had a problem with the National Tax Administration. We know what that situation is like. Mr. Senator Dobkowski somehow went so smoothly on the subject, because it seemed like everything was agreed, everything was agreed with the trade unions. I have two trade union papers in front of me. I'll quote you a passage: "art." 12 in the draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act guaranteed all workers employment and the right to the current salary. This was also confirmed by Mr Grzegorz Witkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping at the time of the first reading of the bill... etc. And then, unfortunately, it was introduced at the request of the PiS Club. At second reading, an amendment to the draft law in the form of an article. 12a has completely overturned the initial objectives of the reform on employment guarantees. The recipe was completely deprived. all employees of the employment guarantee. I think it's an art right now. 13 in the bill, because then it was at the stage of work... Could you, Minister, refer to this position of union?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u189	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u190	Yes, of course. In the beginning, you must be made clear to all of you what this looks like. A total of less than 90 people are employed in the 3 regional fisheries inspectors, or maybe ninety pairs, of which 48 are carried out by the inspection inspection. It's like such a big coast, so many ship owners and so many boats, fishing units, boats are It's very little. And we are constantly being monitored by the European Commission, and we hear that this control is inefficient. The controllers themselves are really outstanding specialists, there aren't many of them. And for the salary they get in the administration, no one's getting into this job. On the other hand, we have an over-the-top administration in these district inspectors. And integrating everyone into one cell, into one body first of all, will make this inspection more controllable, more dynamic and flexible. When we spoke to the unions, the employment guarantee was not raised. On the contrary, we said that we would need to strengthen staff with controllers. And it is clear that there will be one accounting, one staff, one administration. So if you take out the inspectors and you put them into one thing, it's a few or a dozen people that can. But he doesn't have to. There is no proposal to extend the job. But At the request of the trade unions, we also stated that if the employee does not receive a proposal, he will receive a salary of a maximum of 4 months. And relationships didn't raise any doubts after that, at this stage. As I say, this is a small structure, underinvested, we need to strengthen it. I'm sure there'll be new inspectors there. I wouldn't exaggerate about those social side voices. And I maintain what I said in the Seym at first reading And what Mr. Senator said. Then answering Mr Borowczak's question about the fact that there are exceptional specialists in the Baltic Sea's marine resources in Gdynia in particular: not to lose people. And this principle will guide us in this reform: not to lose people. And at the same time make this inspection more controllable so that the state in this area is not theoretical.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u191	You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have referred two questions to the rapporteur here earlier, but since this issue was not discussed in detail at the committee meeting, let me repeat these two questions. The first question concerns the clearance of employees. In what case will the discharge of employees be relatively higher than that provided for in the Act, and who will it apply to? And second question. It's about changes in the monthly catch report. Is this a recovery? In the Minister's view, will the re-introduction of the obligation of the master of a fishing vessel to include in the monthly catch report of caught and overfished species of marine organisms allow for a more accurate collection of fishing data and will contribute to the search for solutions in view of the deteriorating stocks of the Baltic Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u193	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u194	I would also like to extend the answer to the first question to those who will have a guarantee of employment. They are: an employee who is not more than 4 years old to reach retirement age, a pregnant worker, a maternity worker, an employee entitled to parental leave, a child-care worker until his fourth year of age and a worker with whom a fixed-term employment contract has been concluded. So these are the issues. As far as higher clearances are concerned... briefings, right? [[Briefing.]] ...to be honest, it wasn't exactly set out in the bill, but in some cases it would be... In the event of termination of the employment relationship and non-promotion of further cooperation on various grounds I'm not just talking about checks, the employee will receive a maximum of 10 salaries. But maybe I can make a written reply for you after the meeting. There was still a question about reporting. Yeah, in the government version, our original version didn't have that obligation. But at the end of August came some guidelines from the European Commission, not an obligation, but guidelines that reporting on boats of less than 8 m long should however be and should return to our legislation. It was already before, only we, as part of the previous amendment, abolished it at the request of the fishing community. And that information didn't even reach everyone, because they were still reporting... So if we go against the European Commission's guidelines, we introduce this into the bill, but this will not have a negative impact on shipowners and fishermen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u195	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Usually, in the case of these types of laws, which eliminate something and cause something, there are problems with transitional regulations. I have a question about whether there's such a problem here. Well, according to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Regional marine fisheries inspectors shall be abolished and replaced, in accordance with Article. 14, the President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint the Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries. The Minister then appoints his deputies, and in the meantime, in accordance with the article. 7, is temporarily appointed an organisational representative. And now, according to the article. 6 in paragraph 2. 2 Maritime fisheries inspectors shall be removed as institutions. In which article and where We know that in Slupsk The Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries is appointed? Where does it say, in which paragraph is it written, that the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries is formed? Maybe that's not necessary. If so, prove it, because that's what I haven't found in the text yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u198	Mr. Senator, it's true that there may be some problems during the transition period. In this case, this problem will not be present, because we are not creating a new institution, we are integrating 3 district inspectors and creating one. That's why the district inspectors are being abolished because there won't be any district inspectors. There will be one General Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate based in Słupsk. There may be long-distance troops, but they will be able to be established at a later stage. And like you said, for the transitional period I was talking about earlier It's going to be up to a month. A representative shall be appointed to establish such a technical framework for the operation. You asked me where it was written literally. It's on the bill. Only now I have a revised version, I don't have the original text in front of me, but I assume that the bill is... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. I'll ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u200	Of course, there are proxy rights in the bill, but the institution should be created by law. When three district inspectors are legally removed, what is created in their place should also be created by law. It may not be necessary, but this... I'm sorry, to prove that it's not necessary to create a major institution that takes over the tasks of the three previous components... Minister, do I... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Grzegorz Witkowski: No, I understand...]] In such laws is this sentence, there is a separate article: this and this are created.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u201	When you create something new. But it's all the same here. I think it's... [[All right. Think about it. You can possibly make an amendment, we still have the opportunity, there is time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u202	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u203	Minister, I asked the senator the rapporteur a question, but he redirected me to you. If you don't mind, I'll say it again. Did... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Hey, buddy Senator! Hello! [[Mr. Senator, please don't block...]] [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz: Mr. Senator...)]] [[Mr. Senator, it's for you...]] [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] [[Squeeze, sir.]] So far, there's an agenda. Minister, could you give us, if there's any knowledge of how many employees there are now... I do not get into this substantive part, in the fact that a large number of people perform administrative functions, which is, of course, a bad phenomenon, and there are not enough people who control, as the Minister said. Are there any analyses of how many people are currently working in these three inspectors, how much will they work after the reform, and what is the cost of implementing this project? Are these calculations done? And the second question about what you said. You said that this reform was meant to prove that we are not a theoretical state. Could you show the connection between the theory of the theoretical state and the introduction of this reform? Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u204	Please, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senators, let's let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u205	Currently, 94 people are employed in the 3 regional fisheries inspectors, here I can make a mistake of 2, 3 people. The control functions are performed by less than 50 people, far too few for the number of boats, boats and responsibilities imposed on us by the European Union's common fisheries policy, reporting and control of everything. Speaking of the theoretical state, I meant that, to the satisfaction of fishermen, there is no one to control, especially foreign shipowners, who, on the basis of the Common Fisheries Policy, fish in the Baltic Sea, but often in a way, in our view, unauthorised, exceed fishing quotas. This is the knowledge from the district inspectors, who annually, and not only for the last three years, and for the last 10 years, pay attention to underinvestment, lack of staff, lack of equipment. That's what I meant when I said we were trying to fix our long-term negligence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u206	Thank you. [[Yet...]] Another one? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u207	The Minister didn't answer whether the analyses were made and how many of these implementations...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u208	Oh, yeah. It will cost about PLN 50,000. [[How much?]] The cost of about PLN 50,000, the cost of... [[Total. Yes?]] Yes. [[I'd like to report to the next question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u209	No questions? Did... One more thing, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u210	Minister, one more question I've already asked, and now I remember. It's about the issue of layoffs. Will the person who will carry out this reorganisation and make the layoffs... Will there be criteria for those who will be released, or will it be in such a way that the person who implements this will say that we should release this, and we should not do that according to the criteria that he will invent himself? Are there any plans in this regard? It's always the most controversial thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u211	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u212	I don't know what your experience is about firing people, but... [[Experience with Law and Justice.]] I don't know how Law and Justice are firing people. The criteria are clear. How it will end, for example. administrative, staff or accounting posts in 3 district inspectors No, de facto in 2 units, because in one it's going to be It is by all means that some people will be shifted, I hope, to other positions. First of all, we will need qualified inspectors and controllers at the new institution. In agreement, once again, I am saying that the unions at the stage of consulting this bill have entered these checks here for several months if no further cooperation is proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u213	The questions have been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Swede. I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Florek.]] Senator Florek will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It seems reasonable. That is also the case with what the Minister said. The creation of this new body, i.e. the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries, and the combination of these 3 district units into one. It's always good for better management, and I'm sure that's what we all agree on. The Minister spoke here about people who are employed there. As you said, there are about 94 people, so many people are employed there. Those who do not receive a job offer will receive a few months' notice. Well, here is a mechanism similar to what it was, if I recall correctly, in the case of the National Tax Administration in the context of dismissals of employees. You remember that we discussed this here at the Senate meeting. The Senate rule of law committee has also taken care of this issue. The Social Dialogue Council, as I recall, is also to address the issue of the kind of staff changes that are being carried out. Here we have a similar mechanism. I reported it because I received two trade unions... Well, I'm a little surprised, because ninety-six employees are employed and there are two trade unions. The union of officers and sailors, as I recall, and the trade union of marine inspectors in Szczecin sent such a letter. As far as I know, it was sent to all senators, I think. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting, I tabled amendments relating to these employment issues, referring to what I asked at the beginning, i.e. those changes that took place during the work in the Sejm. I will briefly read you the justification for these amendments which have been tabled. The aim of the amendments is to enable the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries to make the necessary staff changes while ensuring that all workers can continue to work at the new office. At the same time, the amendments allow the new employer to shape a new staff policy and proper organisation of work in accordance with the principles of the law set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The termination of labour relations will only be possible if there is no possibility of further employment of workers, in particular administrative posts, of the current regional maritime fisheries inspectors. The purpose of Amendment 5, the last one, is to ensure adequate protection for workers subject to special protection under the Trade Unions Act. It seemed that the correct amendments, which do not change much, and yet increase the guarantee of employment of workers, which is not much, but everyone employed is important... At a time when it is not his fault that he is reorganized, he should be properly treated. Unfortunately, all these amendments were rejected at the committee meeting. And this status, which is also, as I said, adopted in other laws, will apply in this law. Well, let's see how this thing ends. However, the fact is that . Employees Unfortunately, they are not treated equally and actually in situations where they do not have to change jobs because of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u215	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act on financial support for audiovisual production. The text of the act is contained in print No 1005, and the report of the committee In print No 1005 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media was held to consider the Act on Financial Support for Audiovisual Production. During the debate... after the debate, it was decided that the bill would be approved unanimously. And in this connection, the committee is asking the High Senate to pass the attached bill. Now I'd like to remind you what the bill is about. The Act regulates the allocation of funds by the Polish Institute of Film Art for entrepreneurs in the form of grants to cover costs related to audiovisual production and the provision of services for audiovisual production. Operators producing audiovisual works, co-producers of audiovisual works and a service provider for audiovisual production may apply for these measures. It is a duty for them to be established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Act contains details of the conditions to be met by the manufacturer or the co-producer. The subject of the debate was also the principle on which the support was granted. I would like to clarify that financial support is granted for audiovisual production or the provision of services for audiovisual production or audiovisual works. Well, if I wanted to explain this to people who don't really know what we're moving on, it would have to be said that this is about some equal opportunities for our audiovisual production and those that appear on other televisions and other European media. Some countries have already decided to do so. The amount of financial support must not exceed a certain percentage of the amount we discussed Depending on the type of work, the overall cost and whether production benefits from other public support. These amounts are 30% and 80%. But no song can... One track cannot receive more than PLN 15 million. There's not gonna be any competitions. The order of applications for funding will be decided, except that these applications must, of course, meet certain requirements for these audiovisual works projects. They're defined. This was the debate at the committee meeting, there was a discussion about it. The proposal shall be submitted not earlier than 6 months and not later than 2 months before the start of the work to be supported by financial support, so that it is also sufficiently transparent or clear to all. However, it decides the deadline for submitting an application, because the measures are granted until these measures are exhausted until the end of the pool. The Act is to enter into force a month from the date of the announcement. Of course, there were also questions about what... But you answered the minister's question. Because there were also reservations on the part of the Programme Council, attempts to draw attention to some points and possible amendments, but the Minister in his speech resolved our doubts. If there's any questions, if I can answer them, I'll answer them, and if I don't, then you're the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u217	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jackowski reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you about the last part of your speech that you were talking about the comments of a representative of the program board. I would like to ask what were the nature of these comments, the direction in which they were going and what were the expectations of the representative of this council or the environment behind it, what was the point... [[In general...]] ...in the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u219	In general, these comments concerned the fact that he would have independence and whether there would be no control over spending, as decided by the Institute's Director. The minister who would probably answer this question more precisely said that it wasn't about the director, it was about the institute itself. But he solved our doubts. There were still questions concerning various additional proposals for amendments from the head of the Programme Council of the Polish Film Institute, but the minister and lawyers considered that they did not concern the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u220	Thank you. [[Thank you.]] There are no further requests for questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Paweł Lewandowski like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jackowski is asking you a question. Minister. There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a letter before me from Mr.Rafal Wieczyński from the council which suggests that he speaks not only in his own name, but also in the environment or parts of the environment he represents. It's just... It makes concrete proposals for changes, motivating them. In my view, some of these comments were important. It was primarily a matter of collegiateness in making certain decisions. Would the Minister like to present to the High House the direction of these demands and why the government's position on such amendments is negative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u222	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, the system that was created under this law does not assume the question of decision-making at all. The system is automatic. In fact, the Director shall take a formal legal action to sign up to the decision to grant appropriations after the entity which submitted them has simply fulfilled the criteria which are rigidly described. So either he did it or he didn't do it. As he fulfilled it, he gets the money if they're still in the budget, because, as the chairman of the committee said, money is spent to the end, to the exhaustion of resources, in the order of notifications. Therefore, I do not know why any collegiality would serve, since it is automatic, at the request of Mr Wieczyński. He was the one who wanted it to be automatic, so there wouldn't be any committee, and there wouldn't be any discretion. Thus, making such an amendment at this stage Because earlier during the work of the Sejm, such a suggestion did not appear to us at all, it seemed strange, counterproductive. And as for representing the environment, it represents the environment, for example. Polish Filmmakers Association and a whole group of other associations. And in the course of the work on the law, from the very beginning to the end, none of these environments made such comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u224	You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask, because I did not ask this at the committee meeting about the obligations of the beneficiaries. You said here, Minister, that the criteria are rigid. I know that the bill mentions the so-called. It's a cultural test. What obligations should be fulfilled in order to pass this cultural test and apply for grants?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u226	Of course, in general, all the rules that apply to the cultural test will be described... They are in the draft regulation which was annexed to the draft law. He will be clarified in the course of government work. In general, the simplest thing is that this is the production in Poland, so that Polish personnel potential, i.e. Polish creators, music, which is created in Poland, Polish views, Polish landscapes or, I will say, Polish locations in general. The more Polish elements are included... Everyone's scored. And if there are more than a certain number of points, it can be said that the money will be allocated on the basis of the cost estimate presented by the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u227	Senator Swede continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u228	I'd like to ask you one more question. Thank you so much for your answer. I mean storage of copies of films at the Polish Film Institute. I think it was in the bill. Does the storage of these copies waive the obligation to transfer copies to the National Film Library of the Audiovisual Institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u229	It does not repeal, because the National Film Library operates in this area on the basis of the Act on Cinema, and the contested law does not change this provision in the Act on Cinema. The Polish Film Institute is generally obliged to have copies. Because he's paying for it, he's becoming... he's got to have copies of his files. This does not repeal the obligation of the National Film Library and the National Film Library will continue to store copies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u230	Next question. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u231	Thank you very much. Minister, perhaps you would tell the High House what kind of money we are talking about, what is this fund, so that all senators are aware of it. Another question. Did I understand correctly from previous statements that if a project meets certain criteria, then it must receive funds from the vending machine? And so now: if the sum of resources allocated to a given target is limited, what happens to proposals that have not been... I understand there'd be a line. Yes? I mean, it would be on a first-come, first-served basis. The date of application would be decisive here. What happens to projects that have not been qualified in a given financial year? Are they going from vending machine to next year, or are they not going through? Does the procedure need to be renewed? Because there may be a situation like the Siloe pool in the Bible: you couldn't get to the pool until the water moved. Every time it was too late because someone else was going into the pool. And I have this question about this one... Will this go on for the next year, or will the whole procedure have to be carried out again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u232	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u233	As far as the first question is concerned, the bill states that it is from 100 to 200 million PLN. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 33 is written that in the year... This means for 2019 in the draft budget we have reserved 105 million PLN, i.e. 100 million PLN for creators and 5 million PLN for the Polish Film Institute to support the entire system. However, this does not change the fact that at the moment we are at the stage of budget design and this amount can change. It may be higher, but it can't be less than 100 million zlotys. So it will be between 100 and 200 million PLN. It's written in our bill that we can operate in this area. If this is about what's gonna happen if we run out of resources... It is that on the 1 product that is reported, you can get 15 million zł and 1 producer can get 20 million. That means I can report a few productions and get a total of no more than 20 million in a given year. This is intended to counter a situation in which, for example, 1 the beneficiary would suck all the money out of the system. Of course, if someone doesn't fit in a given year, they have to re-submit the project in the following year, but of course they can't do it indefinitely, because the bill contains deadlines for how long it is possible to apply for it from the end of production. I'd have to find out exactly what it's like, but it's been a few months since the end of production, like, three months. I'd have to check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u234	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that for the examination of point twenty-five, i.e. Act on amending the act on combating doping in sport, we will proceed tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Central European Institute Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 994, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 994 A and 994 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On 15 November 2018, another meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee was held, during which a new legislative initiative was discussed, i.e. the Central European Institute Act adopted by the Sejm on 9 November 2018. With regard to the Central European Institute Act, which was discussed at that meeting, its main objective is to establish a Central European Institute, which is to have competence and scientific, analytical and, above all, related to the Tri-Morch project. This is to be the nearest, most important backroom of the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers. Of course, the Institute's tasks will also include cooperation with foreign actors involved in international relations, especially those that are also related to Central Europe for territorial reasons. On the one hand, this initiative is new because it is the subject of a new institute, but on the other hand it is a change, which is that the existing Institute of Central and Eastern Europe with its registered office in Lublin is to be properly used in the development of this new institute. And another important thing. Namely, the institute will have its own authorities, i.e. above all, the principal and the council. If necessary, I will, of course, present this to you in detail. It is important that both the Director and the Council are elected and dismissed from these positions by the President of the Council of Ministers. One of the main features of this new institution, unlike the previous one, is that we want to raise it, you can say, quality, value and meaning by the fact that it will be directly subject to the President of the Council of Ministers and not, as so far, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, it seems that it is a law which is intended to establish an institution which is well perceived by Central Europe's partners and will show that in fact we are approaching one of the main objectives of Polish foreign policy, an initiative implemented by the current government, i.e. the Intermaric project as a being, which is to be not only theoretical, but also to have this analytical and scientific basis, research, which will support the political project itself. During this debate, the Committee on Science, Education and Sports took the floor, apart from the president who held the meeting, above all Senator Prof. Wach and my humble person. And these most important voices, I think, were the following. Senator Wach emphasized that this is a staff law, and in principle it is important to enable the exchange of employees. That was the main charge against this bill. At the same time, he was pleased that at least the headquarters would remain in Lublin and thus the parallel Western Institute in Poznań and the latter in Lublin will tighten Polish lands in terms of two challenges, i.e. contacts with the West and contacts with the Tri-Moor. [[Podkarpacki would be...]] Yeah, it's not here yet. We'd have to set up a Southern Institute. We're waiting for initiative. Well, maybe it's in Tarnów... Okay, for now, we're talking about this institute. The fact is, it was the main charge. In turn I emphasized the importance of the Tri-Morch project in my speech. If we are to look at our foreign policy in a way not only wishful thinking, then such an institute seems to be the natural base, which for the President of the Council of Ministers is supposed to be a tool for the implementation of Polish foreign policy, of course in this passage, but very important. Because we are speaking, at least officially, and I hope that not only are we talking, but we are also doing that we want to find as many points of contact between the interests of the nations and the states over the three seas, the Baltic, the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, and the other seas that we can also see in this Tri-marine. Of course, as a result of this discussion, Mr Kazimierz Wiatr asked that the law be adopted without amendment. As a result of the vote, four senators supported this request from the president, 1 against. And so our committee recommends this law to continue to proceed. In addition to this report, which I conclude on this, I would like to say that, of course, there is a report from the second committee, which later met, and therefore also had the opinion signed by the representative of the President-in-Office of the Bar Council on legislation. We didn't have that opinion at the time. But it is always nice to say that in general this opinion is as positive as possible. We have not yet had it, and therefore it will be difficult for me to answer questions about whether or not this opinion was taken into account in our discussion. I should immediately warn you that it is better to ask the second rapporteur questions about this opinion. It's all on my side, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u236	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I would like to present a report on the procedure for the Central European Institute Act. The Commission met on 20 November this year. Two points were actually raised during the discussion. One was the one mentioned by the Senator, the rapporteur of the science commission, Professor Żaryn, just a little bit different. It was not that the Institute would be used for the exchange of personnel, but whether this crew, this resource which is now at the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, will be fully used and whether all this would not be harm to the workers there, after all experienced people who have been working at the Institute for several years. The second case raised was a matter relating to the competence of the Institute's Director. Namely in the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 It is written that the director of the Institute may be a person who has a Master's degree. In our understanding, this should be at least a higher master's degree. There is no reason why the director of the institute appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, after the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, would be a doctor, professor or person with any other... No? I don't know... The Minister nods his head. In fact, these two cases were the main issues raised. 2 applications were also submitted for this purpose. One application is a motion to reject the bill. He was not accepted by the committee. The second is a proposal for an amendment. I think it will be discussed by a representative of the minority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I'd like to give you one more interesting piece of information. The Institute will be able to include local branches, including those established outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. It seems to me that this is such a valuable initiative that we rarely had the opportunity I have been working for 8 years in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union to obtain information on the support of scientific institutions for the activities of our diplomatic services abroad. And I think this will be used for a very good purpose, especially since Poland has shown very high activity in this area of Europe in recent years, with great success What I wish for myself and for you in the future. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u238	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! One minority motion has partly been reported by Senator Hare. I'd just like to add a few details. Mr. Senator Żaryn, you were not familiar with the opinion of the Supreme Bargain Council, but you said it was positive. No, it's not. She presented doubts, which we have also tabled by making amendments. Because when we read that the Institute's tasks are to carry out analytical activities, carry out scientific research, prepare analyses, experts and studies, etc., it means that it is a research and research institute to a large extent. I abstract here from the fact that the conversion of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe to the Institute of Central Europe in our assessment And we're not convinced otherwise. It is staffed because all employees, from top to bottom, will be given notice and possibly new job proposals that may or may not be accepted. We don't really understand this move... At the meeting of the committee there were general statements that the work of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe was not entirely satisfied with the decision-makers, but there were no concrete elements in this matter. Therefore, as a minority in the form of Mr. Rector, Senator Rocki and my humble person, we have made two proposals. One For rejection of the law in its entirety, and if it had not obtained the required majority of votes, it would have been the second For the amendment to the Act in Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2. It's supposed to sound like this person owns at least Of course, the head of the Ph.D. degree in social sciences or humanities. Because right now it's written that he's going to have a master's degree and it's not even said in what field... [[Master's a master.]] ...so that theoretically it could be a zootechnic or a master of geology or anything else. Although the next item states that this person has at least 3 years of experience in management and professional experience in the field of the Institute's tasks, it is anything enigmatic. Since we do not find any reason for the Central and Eastern European Institute, in our opinion, to replace the Central European Institute, we are asking that this law be rejected. We find nothing in it more than that there is going to be a wide exchange of human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u240	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u241	Mr. Marshal, I have a question. Professor, I address you as a man of science. Explain to me: is the concept of Central Europe a broader concept in the geographical, population and spatial sense than the concept of Central and Eastern Europe? That's the first question. Two. Assuming that there are two cases that Mr Senator mentioned here, namely issues related to the rights of the Tri-marriage and the change of subordinates, because we already know that, I ask you to show what other fundamental differences are between one and the other institute. That's the second question. And a third. Were the committee's deliberations on financial issues? This is what the Institute's budget is now, what it will be, how much it costs for this whole staff exchange, extension of scope, etc.? Were financial matters also discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u242	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Please address the third question to the Minister, because we have not debated the budgetary details of what would be obtained in the next budgets for this purpose. Both the Minister present and the members of the committee stressed that the institute should be treated as some kind of parallel to the Western Institute. This is an attempt to demonstrate that we are guided by some structural logic, that is to say, to find a new institute, like the Western Institute, under the direct authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, gives a clear signal that there are such areas in Europe, which in turn results from our presence in the European Union, which we particularly want to address in our current foreign policy. At least, if I'm being honest, that's how I feel about it. I mean, on one side. This is no longer the opinion of the committee, but mine, as the person who listened and participated in this debate, is clearly a signal to the Tri-Moor States that we want to work continuously, in a current, very rhythmic way, at the level of searching for common national and national interests. As you know, it is not so simple, because every country and every nation in Central Europe has its own political combinations, its own higher and lower goals, as well as its own history. All of this should be the subject of historical, scientific, political, economic research. And it seems to me that if such a signal is not only transmitted but also implemented, it will give the Institute of Central Europe a chance to actually take its place. Of course, it is appropriate to ask, Mr Senator, whether it will be a better or worse institute than it has been before, just as it is a valid question, although no one has asked it during the committee's deliberations, or for example. The Western Institute performs its function, and it is already the one that is in the desired place in the government-state structure. Well, time will tell. Clearly, the Central European Institute is supposed to support the Tri-Moor project, which we take seriously. So much for the second question. As for the first question, of course, we are aware that Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe are terms that we can treat together as synonyms, as well as separately. And there's a legitimate question about why we're changing this title. Is this the result only of what Senator Grodzki was talking about here, and in our committee, Senator Wach, that we are trying to create a staff bill and we need to establish a new institution so that it is not twin-like? Well, of course you can. at this stage to stay in reasoning, but I think it is worth again to stress that we are no doubt a member of the European Union and that our presence creates a very important reality, i.e. Central Europe is becoming a self-existent in our foreign policy plans, that it poses some kind of challenge also for all other members of the European Union to treat this part of the Old Continent on the same rights as any other blocks of countries geographically arranged and within the European Union present, for example. the countries of the south. And nobody blames themselves for the fact that the countries of the south of the European Union are taking each other seriously and looking for different kinds of closer relationships, because that is their geographical location. Does this mean that we stop for example. to be interested in countries located outside the European Union and belonging to the more eastern part of Europe? I don't think so, obviously. It is included in the legislation that the whole Central and Eastern Europe will be the subject of the Institute's concern. So this is a project that is to be closely related to our presence in the European Union and the Tri-marine project, and at the same time open to what we have so far called and continue to call Central and Eastern Europe. I don't know if I'm satisfied with the answers, but that's how I understand it. I apologize in advance if it's too long, Mr. Marshal, because we certainly didn't discuss it as widely as I have put it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u244	Senator Jacko... But no. Senator Grodzki would like to answer that question, wouldn't he? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Mr. Senator, this is the podium right here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u245	I'd like to respond, Senator... Well, I'm not a geographer, so it's hard for me to determine which countries we'd include in Central Europe and what kind of Central and Eastern Europe. By referring to your questions about the budget, I would like to say that this budget is going to be bigger... It was our committee meeting that was brief, but it was touched. As far as the Institute's director is concerned, I have to say that there is a change for the worse, because I will refer to the statute of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, the director may be a person who has a PhD degree in the scientific fields present at the Institute. One of the four languages, English, French, German or Russian, is required to communicate at scientific conferences. Thus, the cutting off of this eastern leg significantly reduces, as it turns out, expectations of the new director's competence. And we can't accept that. The Western Institute must also have a doctor in this position, and here we clearly lower the criteria, which from a scientific and research point of view is incomprehensible and puts such a director in a difficult situation in advance, e.g. at international scientific conferences, because Professor Żaryn knows perfectly well that when a professor comes out, he is listened to differently than when a master comes out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u246	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Zarin, but perhaps the other rapporteurs will also want to answer my question. That's what I'm talking about. There's a record here. That's the point of this writing. That the Director of the Institute shall be appointed and cancelled by the President of the Council of Ministers after consulting the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and the Board of the Institute. My question is: is the opinion of the board of the institute binding, i.e. the negative opinion makes it impossible to appoint a director or is merely consultative, i.e. The President of the Council of Ministers may take it into account, but he doesn't have to take it into account? That's the first question. And second question. Or, for example, the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union next year... We are talking about Lublin because there will be a seat, and we have prepared a resolution I hope the Senate will accept her. That 2019 will be the year of the Lublin Union, the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union. Whether this newly designed institute will be involved in substance e.g. In preparing materials, will he participate actively in this? Because it would be, in my opinion, such an obvious work of this institute. I also have doubts about this change of name, because Central and Eastern Europe according to any definition that is available, but means a completely different circle of countries than accepted by the OECD, of course, different criteria are different by different organisations. The concept of Central Europe. Well, if it were Central Europe, I think that the Polish-Lithuanian Union would not be taken into account completely geographically, because territorially the Republic was going beyond what is understood as Central Europe. Thank you. [[Thank you. Yes...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u248	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u249	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, as far as the second question is concerned, it will, of course, have to be addressed to the newly appointed director. But I am convinced that for this institute, which will be, I hope, appointed, one of the first challenges will be to participate in the organisation of the Lublin Union year. I can't imagine he'd forget that round anniversary. However, it must also be said that we already know today that a lot of institutions are preparing to celebrate this year's Lublin Union, especially scientific institutions, for example related to historical research, but this is also an example. The National Bank of Poland, which prepares a special coin. This area is undoubtedly very wide and not every one of these institutions From here I gave an example of the National Bank of Poland It has, of course, only the activity concerning the Polish-Belarusian Union assigned to it. So I think that the Central European Institute will be able to find arguments to address this very important anniversary not only in historical terms, but also in political terms. By the way, this is an anniversary in which we can articulate our ability to conduct foreign policy in the long term of Polish elites, because not only the Polish state. I am referring here to both the policy still related to the Hotel Lambert and Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, as well as later the concept of the Roman Dmowski intermarriage, as well as the concept of the Federation of Józef Piłsudski or later the new concept of the Adam Doboszyński intermarriage, as well as the concept referring to all these threads and realized at the time when the President of the Republic was a dead man. Lech Kaczyński. So we have a very rich background, which we can use, motivating this Jagiellonian project as still worth considering not only by Polish foreign policy, but also by European foreign policy. So I think it will also be implemented by this institute. As far as the first question is concerned, if I understand correctly, and I hope that I understand this provision that you have invoked, Mr Senator, of course this means that the only one who calls and dismisses is the President of the Council of Ministers, and therefore the opinion of the Council is only an opinion, not a dictator. That's how I understand the logic of these records.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u250	Mr. Senator, you can still stay because there are questions. I have a question for you. I want to ask you why you changed your name. A change of name is some indication, a symbol of what the institute will do. He is now called the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, and is to be called the Institute of Central Europe. There is a difference in the context of political geography between these two names. If there is Central Europe, there is no Ukraine, and if there is Central and Eastern Europe, then there is Ukraine. I'm talking about today's historical geography. Question: why should the name be changed? How do you explain the contradiction which is in the law that, on the one hand, the name of the institute is being changed and, on the other hand, the law states that the institute is to deal with Central and Eastern Europe? If so, why change the name? If not, what's the point of writing it? That's the first question for you. The second question to you is: why has the level of education been reduced with regard to the future director of this institution created? These two questions I have for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as the first question is concerned, I have already tried to say this, but I will, of course, revisit this question. I understand... [[Mr. Senator, maybe I can modernize that question. I don't want you to say it again because I listened to what you said.]] Yeah, that's right. [[My question is, can't you see the contradiction?]] Good. I answer very briefly: I see no contradiction. I see clearly the shift of the centres of gravity. That is, on the one hand, the scope of the substantive competence remains the same, i.e. Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe will be among the Institute's interests, and on the other hand, the Tri-Morch project, which is an outstanding project specifically for this government, makes us want to articulate this issue in the form of a change in the name of the Institute. The Trimar project is a project that we want to see as a reality within the European Union, and the issue of Central and Eastern Europe is a matter of relations with countries that we would very much like to see in the European Union sooner or later, but they are not there today. I say this on my own behalf because I understand it so, but of course, questions about the official position of the government regarding the interpretation of the change of name, please address to the Minister. As far as the second question is concerned, I already told the senator when he said that I agree with this conclusion that the person who runs the research and analytical institute and who is to have international contacts, with other foreign entities, at the same level, level of authority, should have a higher degree of science. And as Jan Żaryn, Senator of Law and Justice, I clearly support this proposal, so I have no doubt about this. If this institution is really going to respond to the challenge that I am also talking about here myself, it would be better if this person had a higher degree, a scientific title, and evidently will be treated in a way that is also due to the scientific world of the Central European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u252	Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I am asking the same question because I am curious to see most of the Law and Justice and the question of the proposal that you have tabled on behalf of the minority, Professor Grodzki. So, Professor, I'm going to ask that question again, and I would ask, if I may, to answer it in a less scientific way, so that I can understand it. So I would ask for such a matter: show in equivalent sentences, from a hyphen, what differs one institute from another. Okay? Well, I'm asking for 3, 4 examples. Not counting the subject of the tri-marriage, because we already know that. That's the first question. [[But that's what's different...]] This. Aha! So this is the only...? Yes. [[Well, we'll see...]] Okay. I already know that. And second question. That's the same question I'm asking Professor Grodzki. And the other one... [[There could still be long-distance troops out there, overseas...]] Oh, the senator can answer, too, because... I'm sorry I didn't ask you a question, but if... [[Well, what does a master's degree mean to professors?]] Oh, yeah. [[But Senator Hare was the rapporteur.]] Yes, the senator is the rapporteur, so... [[Here you go, if you want to answer that question, go ahead.]] Professor, here's the question: wouldn't it be more logical if these tasks are what the senator says... I may have my opinion on the scope of the tasks that the Professor presents, but I ask whether it would be more logical to establish a research institute for the Tri-marine cause, first of all. Who would take care of the stricte what is an important element of foreign law and justice policy and which would be scientific support in this respect. Why would you mess with me like that? And you could separate these two cases if you want to separate them, i.e. European Union and non-EU countries After all, it can be the Eastern Institute and the Central European Institute. These three institutes with very specific tasks could be set up, and then readability will be in this respect. But space is different, tasks. It's different, too. And yet you want other tasks to be carried out. It's about what you asked the marshal. And that's completely different. It's supposed to be the Central European Institute, and you want him to carry out the tasks of the Tri-Moor. Okay, well, that kind of logic could be... I would ask, if I may, for two gentlemen to respond in this regard... Excuse me, Senator... [[There you go.]] ...and two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u254	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna leave the structural issues behind, because in her report, she talked about the local centres. This, of course, is a structural novelty. But it seems to me that the key issue here, however, is that this new institute is supposed to absorb the existing tasks of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, so we are not giving up on this entire resource. And at the same time point out that the reference point in this situation today in terms of government policy... Let me remind you that this institute is to be directly governed by the President of the Council of Ministers. It is about creating a very important scientific and analytical base for the President of the Council of Ministers concerning our participation in the institution we call the European Union. That's how I understand it, but there's a government representative with us who can possibly correct my senatorial thinking about it. I only use statutory records, and from this statutory record I draw conclusions. Well, maybe there's a better answer to that question. I see it this way: the achievements of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe so far are absorbed by this new entity. This new unit is set up because the President of the Council of Ministers is clearly determined today to articulate this mission or the task of our government, which is to seek agreement within the Tri-marine. And this is not a contradiction, it is giving new accents while at the same time seeking the right place for those Eastern European countries that we would like them to be present in this EU project as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u256	Mr. Senator Grodzki wants to interfere, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u257	Mr Marshal, in answer to Senator Czarnobaj's question, I would like to say that, in the case of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, we are dealing with a statute rather than with a law establishing it. There's a bill here, but these records are pretty similar. Only in this new legal act... I'll quote briefly. The Institute's tasks will be particularly... And now point 1 deals with building cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, point 2 on the inclusion of entities established in the countries of Central and Central and Eastern Europe, point 3 on international and cross-border cooperation in Central and Central and Eastern Europe. And in a few places, I don't think it's quite logical, it's repeating itself. I don't dare pose here as an expert in Polish, but... I wouldn't even dare ask the legislators, but maybe Prof. Bralczyk. Well, if we're writing Central and Eastern Europe, we don't have to write next to Central Europe anymore, because it's hidden in this broader concept. The only fundamental difference is that the previous institute was subject to the competent minister and at the moment this minister was excluded. Everything depends on the Prime Minister's President and the Prime Minister's Head of Office. We have no opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Science, so we do not know what they think about this limitation of competence. And this illogical set of terms of Central Europe and Central-Eastern Europe, which is repeated perhaps 5 or 6 times, suggests that this is the conversion of one into another, actually quite different intentions, because there are no differences in scientific research. This old statue emphasizes the boundaries of the former Republic of Poland. In this new document, in this law, this is of course not the case, as well as, not once does the word "Three Seas." So that also raises some doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u258	Now Senator Hare, the rapporteur, answers the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u259	I am a little surprised that our discussion is going towards proving that the President of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, wanted to lower the rank of an institution that has so far served its functions. In my opinion, this rank is rising, and there will be additional resources. I'd like to quote three points here. At the time of the entry into force of the Act, the Institute takes over the assets and non-essential components of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe in Lublin. The debts and liabilities of this institute will become debts and liabilities of the new Institute. The term of office of the Director of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe will expire and the President of the Council of Ministers will appoint the Director of the Institute after consulting the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. It will become a member of the Scientific Council of the Institute and the President of the Council of Ministers will appoint the Council of the Institute of the first term of office within 3 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. The staff of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe will become employees of the new Institute, with working relations with these workers going out 3 months after the entry into force of the Act if they are not offered new working conditions and wages before 2 months after the date of entry into force of the Act, or if new working conditions and wages are not adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, when I read documents, various, even controversial, I always try to read these documents in a positive way. And I would like you to give this institution with a new name a chance, but to a large extent its activities that have been carried out so far by the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe. I cannot imagine the work of the Institute of Central Europe without close cooperation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic offices in countries which will include the activities of the Institute. In my view, this change will have the desired effect. I'm gonna get back to this personnel thing a little bit longer. Well, it doesn't seem to me that the President of the Council of Ministers, when setting up a director of the Institute, will choose a person who is incompetent, poorly educated and unspeakable in the proper running of the institution. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, uh... [[Do you want me to give you examples?]] We are talking about this fact, the Central European Institute. Let's give it a chance. At any time, if this person doesn't work out, even if he doesn't have a master's degree, the President of the Council of Ministers has a chance to call off that person. Thank you very much. I think that the rest of these details will be presented to us by the Minister, who represents the government and certainly the best of us here knows the intentions of this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u260	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Then Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Professor Jan Zarin. Because it seems to me that it's my personal opinion that it makes sense to have a person at the head of such an important facility who has at least a doctor's degree. I would no longer say that humanities, to what extent, etc. However, a person with some scientific achievements, because it is to be an institution par excellence also research. What's your personal opinion on this? [[But he's the draftsman of the committee...]] But what is your personal opinion on such an amendment? Would you support such an amendment? My second question is: how does this Central European Institute apply to the Eastern Studies Centre? Because there's an institution... [[No, no...]] Will they cooperate with each other? And how does it apply to the Eastern Studies Institute, which, as you know, organizes annual events in Krynica? It is geared towards economic affairs, it is a private foundation, and the Eastern Studies Centre is partly financed by the state budget. In what relations will this institution concerned by the law on its creation, which we are currently discussing, remain with these other institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u262	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u263	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm answering the first question. As I said, I believe that this amendment, which has been made by a minority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, is very well founded. I hope that perhaps the Minister in his speech will be able to convince me that he is not a legitimate one. I am, of course, open, but at the moment I believe that this amendment is justified. I told you why. Director of such an important facility as a person with a scientific title in one of the fields that are specifically distributed It is about areas which are related to the Institute's substantive competence. It will undoubtedly be more respected. Unless, for some reason, it is considered that the director of the institute is to have a more managerial function than the scientific one, but that does not result from the provisions of the Act. And second question. Fortunately, I understand that we are living in a democratic state, which will sometimes also bear the excess of institutions, in the opinion of some institutions dealing with similar issues. And that's our freedom, that different structures, foundations, centers. In this case, an institution clearly dependent on the national authority They support each other. Think tanks, which are present and very important from an analytical point of view, will enter into a relationship with the newly established institute. I think that would be the wish of all of us here, because that should be the role... And that is the difference between an institution that has strictly political tasks and certain issues as an institution dependent on the President of the Council of Ministers perhaps cannot articulate... In turn, they can be discussed by an external structure that has the possibility to organise meetings and analyses at another social level. At the end of this questioning session, I would like to answer Senator Grodzko, who said this sentence: a new subsidiary is a restriction of the institute. I don't really understand how this... [[The Ministry of Foreign Affairs...]] Yeah, well, the Foreign Ministry's limitation... It's obvious. Because it's not a restriction on the position of the institute itself. I understand that's what this was all about. That's very good. Because, of course, it is not a restriction, or even the opposite, to the highest official of the Polish state. It has the mark of an attempt to demonstrate that this new institute will receive more support, support from the Council of Ministers. This is also evidenced by not so much by the provisions, but by the promises that the Institute's budget will increase from year to year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u264	Senator Blackbay. Please. [[I, Mr. Marshal, give up the question.]] You're resigning? [[Yes.]] And I'm not quitting, and I have questions for Senator Lighthouse. I asked for a reason whether Ukraine would be in the field of work of this institute. It is clear to me that this institute will duplicate the role of Minister from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I will speak about this in my speech. My question is: will this institute also deal with It is likely that it will have its exhibition in Ukraine implementing the IPN Act, i.e. what has been included in the amendment of the IPN Act, namely the issue of penalization of the situation... It is about raising Ukrainian nationalism. We have introduced such a penalization record that it is punishable by... the idea of penalising the promotion of Ukrainian nationalism from 1924 to 1950. Is he gonna take care of it? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u265	Thank you very much. I think that issues relating to the scope of these real activities of the new institute will have to be asked above all by the Director. I believe the Ministry has a vision here as well. Nevertheless, again, as Senator Jan Żaryn, I can predict, and as part of these predictions, I can say that you are right, Mr. Marshal. I mean, I can't imagine there wouldn't be an exhibit that would work with Ukraine. Undoubtedly, such an institute could, within its competence, create analyses on the reception of our various sovereign decisions in terms of building Polish-Ukrainian relations. And this analytical contact with the Ukrainian partners in turn could be effective by passing on to the relevant ministers, especially the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or in this case the Minister of Justice, bearing in mind that the amendment of the law on IPN came out of that circle and the relevant parliamentary or senate structures... I mean to introduce these analyses into the widely understood area of Polish current policy. So that it gives us the material to identify, which law requires a firm repair, an amendment. And this is, of course, in the name of best relations, in this case Polish-Ukrainian. Again, I'm not a private person, I'm a senator. But in the records that are available, as far as this part of the amendment is concerned, a well-known amendment to the IPN Act, during the session of the Senate committee that dealt with it, well, I made substantive reservations about this particular section of the Act, claiming that there is no historical justification for the provisions concerning the years 1925 and 1950. If such a period of years is there, it is certainly not because it was the right idea from the perspective of the scientist. Some other perspective, not necessarily scientific, can, of course, be dominant in the provisions of the Act. But from this point of view, it was not right. And such an institute could undoubtedly take a bold analysis going in this direction to present to both the Ukrainian partner and the Prime Minister that there is a record that can be misinterpreted without need. Because in this respect it is necessary to always write things down in a precise way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u266	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. But we have the authority of Minister Paweł Szrot. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I would not like to repeat what the senator and the senator of the rapporteur said about the justification of the bill and its provisions. I'd just like to complete it here in general with some circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the structure of institutions supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers, there are already two organisational units. This is, first of all, the Eastern Studies Centre. Mark Karpia, and secondly, the Western Institute based in Poznań. The Act, on which the High Chamber is proceeding today, constitutes a certain closure of the system, the elevation of the existing institute to the level of these 2 institutes, i.e. the attachment of it to the structure of institutions supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Act also allows financial support in the budget section concerning the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers as part of the subjective grant. This is actually a strengthening of this institution. Senator Czarnobaj asked questions about the financial resources currently allocated to the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe and planned for the Central European Institute. High Izbo, last year the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe received about PLN 1 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Even in the draft budget law, which you are about to process in the upper chamber, 4 million zlotys are earmarked for this. This amount is significantly higher and will improve the effectiveness of the Institute's work, which is currently facing problems. Overtaking the questions that I'm sure the senators would have referred to me. Of course, some of the cases have already been addressed by the rapporteur's senators. I would like to address, first of all, this basic question concerning the requirements for a candidate for a director of the institute. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! This, rather than other construction of this recording, results solely from functional reasons. It has often been the case that appointment procedures have lasted for many months only because certain persons have not been identified by a specific scientific title. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, you can imagine very easily, and I will give you an example here in a moment. The fact that a person who has many years of experience in international politics, including from a diplomatic post and in cooperation with scientific institutions from all over the world, simply does not have a doctoral degree. An example? Dear Mr. and Mrs. Mark Karpia, who is now patronising the Eastern Studies Centre, the longtime director of this institute, the deceased, as you know, under tragic circumstances... His death caused a lot of questions, and we all remember that. If the amendment proposed by a minority of committees had been accepted, he could not have been Director of the Central European Institute because he did not have a doctoral degree. So much for explaining this fundamental issue. I, of course, respect people with academic titles as a simple master, including Professor Zarin. I'm just calling for an understanding of strictly functional considerations. I cannot recommend this amendment positively. More questions have been asked at my address. Senator Jackowski asked for the opinion of the board of the institute. Of course, I repeat what the Professor said. The opinion is necessarily non-binding. If it were a binding position, it would be a memorandum of agreement or agreement. As far as the anniversary of the Lublin Union is concerned, I would just like to remind you that in the article. 3 in item 5, the task of the institute is to promote outside the borders of the Republic of Poland the Polish social thought and foreign and historical policy. So it can be said that this subject will be directly covered by the Institute's statutory tasks, Mr. Senator. More questions. I've already told you about the requirements. Senator Czarnobaj asked what is the difference between the Institute being liquidated and the Institute being created. I remind you that this is a certain formal construction, which is that based on human resources, based on a material base, based on the research and scientific achievements of the liquidated institute, is created, with the same headquarters in Lublin, formally a new organizational unit. What's the difference? As I have already said, the legal formula changes: the institute will have its own law; the supervisory formula will be supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers; the financial formula will increase significantly. And just to remind you that the financial rule contained in the draft law in the article. 28 contains a maximum limit of PLN 4 million for 2019. These measures are already secured. And by 2028 this maximum limit will reach 14 million PLN. That's going to be the amount of... here, of course, is just the upper limit. ♪ That's what I'm talking about ♪ ♪ That's 2 symmetrical institutions, i.e. the Eastern Studies Centre and the Western Institute. That's going to be a comparable amount. Next question... Wait a minute, I need to take a look at the notes. Many words have also been said here about the definition of Central Europe or Central and Eastern Europe. That, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, was in the best sense of the word economic discussion. And I hope we all go out intellectually enriched after this discussion. But I'd like to appeal to the bill now. In fact, it seems that Senator Czarnobaj has already quoted them. The Institute will address issues related to Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. At the same time, I understand that the Ukrainian issue in this area fits as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, why change the name of the institute? The Tri-Morch initiative was mentioned here. I would also like to ask a question in my academic way, excuse me, Professor, that the master is discussing with the professors But such countries as Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which part of Europe do they lie? Is this Eastern Europe? Geographically, in the sense of the Azores, they are located, it seems, slightly west of Poland. [[Voice from the hall: South.]] South. This is actually Central Europe, this is Central Europe. And that's why the symbolic renaming of the institute In order to determine its activities as widely as possible, its activities are defined as countries from a direct and indirect environment, from the nearest surroundings of Poland. That is, both Ukraine and the countries of the Western Balkans. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will accept these explanations. Mr Marshal asked a question about the penalization of phenomena related to Ukrainian nationalism. Mr. Marshal, I, to be honest, don't understand your question a bit, because I don't know how a research unit would handle criminal law enforcement. It's a subject matter. not at all related to this bill, which today the High Chamber is proceeding. [[I'm the one who might be able to determine that question...]] There you go. [[I'm gonna ask you again in a minute, but because you've moved on... I mean, if this institute is gonna run cases with the prosecutor under the IPN Act.]] I don't see how that's gonna work for me right now. He's gonna take care of strictly scientific and research issues. Let's split up the powers of criminal prosecution and the scientific and research competences. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, so much for my explanation. I'm at your disposal for further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u268	Senator Alexander Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u269	Minister, I have a question for you... Because you mentioned two existing institutes. The Institute of Eastern Studies Foundation has a slightly different character, but the Western Institute also operates on the basis of the law. We followed this law three years ago, at the very beginning of the parliamentary term. I have a question as to whether setting up this institute on a certain basis, but a new institute, on the basis of a new law, was considered at all whether the benefits or the effects of existing institutes, especially the Institute of Eastern Studies, which has been operating for 3 years. And in this connection, does the government have any, I would say, a holistic concept, how many institutes should there be? Are further institutes planned? Well, here we're talking a lot about these geographical directions, but there's still a little bit of them. It's still midnight, south, southeast, etc. Does the government have any overall idea of setting up further institutes, or is it like an initiative in itself, without reference to a broader context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u270	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u271	Mr Senator, in this context another institution can be mentioned, which has a slightly different character, i.e. the Polish Institute of International Affairs. This law, on which the State in the Higher Chamber is proceeding today, and which I am presenting on behalf of the government, is about to, as I have already said, close this system, cover this scientific and research facilities of the whole Polish environment. At the moment, the government does not provide for the creation of new scientific and research bodies in the field of international policy. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u272	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is short. The task of the new institute will be among others. the collection of specific books and scientific documentation. Will this old institute be obliged to pass on everything that it has in its assets and non-property, new institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u274	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u275	Yes? The other one's a little longer. We're here... maybe we're not fighting as much as we're arguing about terminology... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Exactly.]] ...the term "Central and Eastern Europe'. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Very interesting discussion.]] I'll allow myself to be digressed. I witnessed a similar discussion several years ago when we joined the European Union. It was one of the laws in which the question of determining the land Recovered, commonly understood, existing in Polish culture and in the consciousness of people was discussed. Well, it turns out that for several decades that wording was not legally defined. So I have a simple question. I would also like to refer to the Western Institute Act. Namely, there are 2 clear terms: Europe and Germany. There are no other descriptive terms. I would therefore ask you to clarify whether in Polish legislation, preferably in laws, there is a clear definition of what Central Europe is and what Central and Eastern Europe is. If not, using the authority of the Minister, I would ask for a clear definition of which countries belong to one area and which countries belong to the other. And then we'll be clear about interpretation issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u276	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u277	Senator, I'm gonna ask you a second question because I've already given you a brief answer to the first one. As far as the definition of Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe is concerned, I do not think that this is necessary. The use of time limits does not make it easy to work, especially for these types of research units. This is not an institution, as I told you before, answering a question from a marshal in law enforcement. This is an entity dealing with analytical, research and some understatement can only help in this situation. I do not consider it appropriate to introduce the definition of Central Europe or Central and Eastern Europe into the Polish legal system. Yesterday, I seem to have defended a project in the Seym against too casuistics. Well, there would be an excessive casuistics in terms of introducing such definitions. I've seen and evaluated a piece of legislation that defined the concept of love, but that's... It was very interesting, but at the time I thought that some concepts were better left undefined. Mr. Senator, please accept my explanation. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u278	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u279	Minister, a supplementary question. Tell me what the relationship between these two names is. Which one's wider? Or maybe it's just that they overlap in part or one is in the other. Well, that way we can explain half the issues that were discussed in the courtroom. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u280	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u281	Well, I, as a simple lawyer, do not now answer such a serious question, but I hope that the work of the Central European Institute will allow, perhaps in the context of scientific work, to determine this as far as possible, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u282	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u283	Thank you very much. I think I could reconcile both of them. I'll tell you right away. I'm addressing Senator Czerwinski here. That I am opposed to defining these areas, because different grammes define it differently and in a moment... At the International Geographic Union conference in Prague in 1994, Austria, the Czech Republic, Liechtenstein were included in Central Europe... Sorry, again: Austria, Czech Republic, Liechtenstein, Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Hungary. This is, as I say, according to the geographical union. And Central and Eastern Europe included: Visegrad Group countries Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary; Lithuania; Latvia; Estonia; Belarus; Ukraine; Yugoslavian countries .Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia, Bosnia, Herzegovina, and the other Balkan countries Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. So we see that in these most common definitions they do not overlap... For me, personally, the Minister's statement that the Institute deals with the area of Central and Central Eastern Europe in the sense of the statutory record on the territorial area to be dealt with by the Institute It's a convincing answer. We'll never get out of the discussion field when we define a name, because it would have to be very descriptive, and that would have made this institution a little ridiculous. Besides, it would be a restriction. My question is this. Well, the Minister, speaking of those arguments that are rational... It is about these criteria relating to the Director. Do similar rules apply to the Eastern Studies Centre and the Western Institute? In other words, can the head of these institutions be a person who has a Master's degree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u284	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u285	Mr. Senator, I am not going to question what Senator Zarin pointed out, that there are slightly different requirements for the Western Institute, although I am forced to repeat that functional considerations dictate such a solution rather than another. We want this institute to function well, efficiently, and that's why it's written. I'm asking you to keep it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u286	Minister, I have a question for you about this. At the current Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, the education census of the director is higher This is a doctor in the fields of science that the institute is engaged in. I therefore have a specific question: why did you lower these criteria in this case? The Institute's gonna get more money, and it's probably gonna be pretty tight in the budget, and so on. But why did you lower those criteria? Do you have a candidate yet? [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, should I answer now?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u287	Well, I've actually answered that question. This, not another, is based on strictly functional considerations. I was talking about the fact that it is often difficult to find a person with a scientific title who, at the same time, would have great experience in the operation of a given individual. I would also like to remind you, Mr Marshal, that the basic requirement, in addition to the Master's degree, is professional experience in the tasks of the Institute indicated in the article. 3. And that will be the basic criterion by which candidates will be evaluated as director of the institute. I would not really be afraid that a person will be appointed who will not have the knowledge and professional experience of the Institute's activities. That's a declaration I can make. And as for the details, this is the sovereign decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u288	Sure. But the question is, how many humanities doctors are in Poland. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: This is not a question for me, Mr Marshal.]] Oh, no, Minister... A few tens of thousands, I'm sure. How about a couple hundred thousand? [[A few dozen...]] [[No...]] [[No, a few dozen...]] A few tens of thousands. You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion is simple. The current director, who is a doctor, and the current director, the head of the scientific council, who has the degree of doctor-habilitated, are fired. You don't have to look far, just take the current director... and say that for functional reasons the doctor needs to replace the master. It's offensive to doctors, because that means that this doctor is misdirecting, that only a master can be a good manager. [[But this...]] This is where the Minister has gone a little far. And you don't have to look far. All you have to do is ask Professor Żarin, who will surely point out many doctors of historical, sociological, humanistic sciences who would meet the conditions necessary to run the institute. And the thesis with this master is indefensible, because there are basically no indications that the required criteria need to be lowered. Not to mention language skills, because you've eliminated it, too. I'm going back to the illogicalness of those records that I keep... I'll put it in a nutshell. The Institute deals with Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. If it were an agricultural institute, it would sound like this: the institute deals with horses and cows and horses. Well, there's really no logic here. Central and Eastern Europe includes a broad group of countries, as Senator Jackowski quoted, and that is enough. This limitation to Central Europe, and in the law, the writing of Central and Eastern Europe completely misses the simple logic of simple senators. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u290	That's a question, but the Minister has already answered...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u291	I can relate to that, but my job here is not to comment on Senator Grodzki's conclusions or opinions... [[But why are there records?]] I would like to stress that there is nothing to prevent the director of the institute, in accordance with the rules that we are leaning over today, from being appointed even a Belgian professor. It's just that this record is not a testimony of some kind of contempt for the scientific community, Professor. Nor is it a result of the assumption that a master would be better than a doctor. Absolutely not. It is intended to serve, I repeat, only functional and practical considerations. With regard to the definitions contained in the title and the tasks contained in the Act, Senator, I will answer you with a question, if you allow me: is the Republic of Slovenia in Central and Eastern Europe? [[He's down, he's down.]] You're sure of it, but... [[Senator Jackowski just quoted it.]] Central Europe... Senator Jackowski seems to have spoken in Central Europe. [[Exactly.]] Mr. Senator, precisely because we have to ask ourselves such questions, we need such understatements. Of course, I'm asking you to accept...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u292	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to finish with these criteria. Here, with Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, we have checked the Eastern Studies Centre Act and the Western Institute Act, and in both of these laws there is no scientific criterion. And maybe this would be the easiest way out of the situation to make it consistent between all three laws, because they relate to a similar profile of state institutions in the rank of research centers. And there's no... One law states that such a person must be unpunished, must be a Polish citizen, but there is nothing about status, level of education at all. This is also described in the second law. So maybe this would avoid discussion, why at least a master's degree, and maybe this would be the best way out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u294	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u295	Since the issue of this name, the definition of the area of Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe takes a long time, I feel a bit obliged As chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which gave an opinion on this law, add that at the meeting of our committee there was such a view that this concept is not only geographical but also political, mental, customary... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Historic.]] For each such concept, borders are discussed. I think there's been a bit of an overreaction on this matter. My question to the Minister is whether or not this lead... Was that the way they thought about it when they offered the name? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u296	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u297	Mr. Senator, I've already explained what kind of lead the designer was following. I repeat: the aim was to cover the scope of the Institute's activities in direct and indirect countries, the nearest neighbourhood of Poland broadly understood. That's all, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u298	Are there any other questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna start with some surveillance. I'd like to thank you very much... I like Minister Szrot... [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: With reciprocity.]] ...but it's such an understatement that we're talking about. It's not the first time that's happened. I value in people such an understatement of the subject they speak of. It's very valuable, because then you can always get out on the principle of "I didn't exactly define what it was actually about." But let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few words about this initiative, I would like to quote a few facts, because when we use facts when making decisions, we use knowledge, it is easier to talk. Minister, whether it's a question of those boundaries or a concept. The national spirit, the patriotic spirit, shows the extent to which the Institute will function. We have discussed so much that until Prof. Wind had to point out that there are other things that should be taken into account in the context of this broad name, the geographical definition relating to these four countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that since the beginning of the term of office... In the election campaign, you declared that one of the important elements of the Law and Justice activities would be the restriction of administration. Do you remember how it rained here in this room that the Platform of PSL is the bad ones who... In the statistics of the European Union we were in the middle when it came to the number of people working in the administration. Now, let's look at the statistics... I want to say that now we can really be proud of the European top when it comes to the number of people working in the administration. Every year, there's more and more of them. I want to say maybe some of you aren't interested in the financials; this is what I do because of my work in committee. That what today consumes the entire administration in Poland is almost 4 programs 500+. Well, I'd just like to show you the great amount of expenses involved. And today again, I would like to say that, in this term of office, I don't think I've had time to check, 15 or 18 times; I'm not counting anymore. You're proposing a law that increases the administration. You're setting up a government-level institute... [[That's a good change.]] That's right, good change. What's the good change doing? He's setting up an institute... Well, since it's mideast, we'd have to call mideast. Yes? And this middle guy has undefined tasks and territory that he's supposed to be dealing with, but he's got one very important thing to figure out. Director of the Master's degree under the Prime Minister. You told the senator that if you set up an institute that would oversee the Prime Minister, then I wrote it down to myself, clearly increasing the rank of this institute. Well, if that's what the money's putting in. The amount is rising from one million to four, as the Minister said. Well, then this rank is raised, well, rank is raised, Minister. I propose that all institutes submit to the Prime Minister, add money and be of great rank. Meanwhile, what will be represented by the head of this institute is secondary. The fact that educational requirements have been lowered can still be explained, but the fact that, as Professor Grodzki said, in the case of the Central European Institute, whose main element of action will be foreign policy, actually there is no condition related to the knowledge of foreign languages, shows that the authority of the Prime Minister and the cashier is building here. I would like to tell you that according to the Civil Development Forum, there is an institute that investigates the things that you create. 37 staff laws were adopted by the end of 2017 and this is largely a staff law. These laws affected, in terms of changing working conditions, posts, 11.5 thousand people, of which 5 000 people These are the people in the ranks of the employees. 15 new offices, the top on the number of ministers, vice-ministers in Europe, in the case of vice-ministers, this is even the first place. And that doesn't make you reflect. After all, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the marshal asked, I checked it out. It is the Institute of International Affairs. Of course, he has other tasks, but it is easier to expand the tasks of existing institutes, because you do not have to build the whole structure than do what you do here. It is best to cover the whole of Poland with institutes, since it is western and now central, it is also eastern and southern. If an important element of your policy... [[Voice from the hall: Pomorskie.]] Please? [[Voice from the hall: Pomorskie.]] It's still in the sea. [[North.]] North, yes, sir. Pomorskie, northern. If it is important to have a policy related to the Tri-More, then simply set up, in human terms, a Tri-Moor Institute for Research and Science, which will be the support of the Prime Minister in this area, because of course such analyses and support is always needed. I'm the only one who doesn't know if there's any more institute in the structures that could be of assistance to the Prime Minister. I wanted to ask, but then I didn't ask, Senator Lighthouse... After all, if the institute is under the authority of the Foreign Minister and, in my opinion, institutes where the focus is on foreign policy should be subordinated, within a coherent policy, to the Foreign Minister, then the Prime Minister may use this institute, he may demand certain information that he needs to instruct the Institute... It's not like anyone forbids the Prime Minister to do that. The establishment of an institute on a "this" basis for the Prime Minister, the one for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is not the pursuit of a coherent foreign policy in this area. Setting up institutes, lowering criteria and saying that we are raising prestige by subjugating the Prime Minister is such a folk policy of creating groups. There's a group that needs to be set up, there's a central European institute, but we're going to call it middle, we're going to subpoena the Prime Minister, we're going to add 3 million zlotys, and we're going to put some people in there. I think that's how you do it. Facts showing how much you have already created the right to create new institutions in Poland, in which we belong, as I said, to the top European... I don't think it's an element that will create the wealth of the Republic. These tasks, Mr. Professor, you were talking about. Without discussing whether they are serious or not, they will be more important to some, less important to others about the Tri-marriage, analysis, promotion of this project, etc. etc., require a structure, but in my view, the existing structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the institutes that exist, can be attributed to these tasks. And if there are some scientific elements missing, then it is simply the formation of a scientific institute for the Tri-Moor, it is given a specific task, for a certain period of time, because after creation, after functioning these tasks can be assigned... This is how you create it, you create a task project, you set a goal, and it's either going on or it's going to end. And not specified: middle, middle-east... These tasks... I asked both Professor Grodzki and your professor about the difference between these two institutes... I have already said this once from this speaker, but I do not know if Professor Żaryn was, so I will repeat: these 2 institutes differ in what is different from the capitalist economy from the socialist economy. If the professor hasn't heard, I'll tell him. The main principle that distinguishes the capitalist economy from the socialist economy is the exploitation of man by man. This is the general principle of the capitalist economy, and in the socialist one, which I see you are starting to represent, is exactly the opposite. And that's the difference that you're showing, and that's the difference between the two institutes. That was the case for every institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u300	Thank you, Senator. Now. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Now you... Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear Internet users and all who are watching us! I would like to draw attention to the fact that it would seem that the bill would not raise any longer discussions in the Senate, and yet we are discussing it a little bit. I think it is a good thing that this discussion is taking place because we know not only the intentions of this law, but also the scope of the subject matter to which the institute is to deal. I would like to start by referring to the question of the name itself. In the course of the discussion, I changed my view, and thanks to the Minister, in that it is indeed Central Europe as part of the name of this institute, taking into account that its geographical field also includes what we mean by Central and Eastern Europe... This fills absolutely the scope and I would not argue this dispute here anymore because, as I tried to demonstrate in the course of this discussion, there are different definitions of both Central and Eastern Europe and Central Europe, so at the moment multiplying the definition or trying to legally define... This is, in my opinion, absolutely impossible, because that is not what the International Geographic Union says, for example. The European Union. I have not quoted the European Union in this respect, but the European Union treats Central Europe very widely, even including Lviv, Terespol and Stanislav, which is interesting. So that we would be stuck in such debates simply if we tried to define it, so I leave this matter as if it were settled. As for the Institute itself, it is here, High Izbo, worth referring to the interwar period. Well, in 1926 it is an important year in our history, and we are in the year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, so we are necessarily more interested in the interwar period and the moment of the reborn Republic of Poland was established the Eastern Institute. It was a very specific facility. One of the first in the world I stress: one of the first in the world . institutions that dealt with the field known as sovietology. We know what the beginnings of the Second Republic were. We know that Tsar Russia has become a Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The beginnings of sovetology as specialties in political sciences are the origins of the interwar period. And from this point of view, the achievements of the Eastern Institute were very large, because it was an analytical centre, but also a quasi-exploratory centre, which gathered material on the situation in the Soviet Union. After Poland regained... After 1989, the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe was established in 1990, if I remember correctly... sorry, in 1991. It was formed as an association of volunteers, people who saw the need for such a centre of study in Central and Eastern Europe. In 2010, it was transformed into a research institute under the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. At the same time, the Institute of Eastern Studies Foundation, which is a foundation, as you know, is involved in animation of meetings, economic forums in Krynica. So we see that in our tradition, from the point of view of the Polish state, the existence of various institutions of different status State institutions or foundations or institutions which are not formally state institutions are very important. Our geographical position forces Poland to carry out serious research in this area, especially in terms of economic and political cooperation, perhaps also military In this act there is a record that there may be delegations or branches of this institute outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. And in this way it is an instrument of influence of the Polish state in a peaceful spirit, in a spirit of dialogue and in a spirit of building some broader spheres of cooperation. And from this point of view it is clear that the Polish State needs such an institution as much as possible. And from this point of view, this is a very good initiative to sort things out. Here, I understand, there is such a change that if in 2010 the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe was subject to If we're already using that colloquial word The Minister for Foreign Affairs is now de facto subordinate to the President of the Council of Ministers, in cooperation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs views the candidate for Director and plays an important role in the functioning of this institution, but it is subordinated to the President of the Council of Ministers. Finally, I would also like to refer to this part of the discussion on the qualifications of the person who directs or directs the work of the institute. And here I think, in fact, Minister... I don't know what the government's position on this case would be. However, if similar provisions were to be applied, concerning similar institutions - No, not the same, of course, but the same. The Centre for Eastern Studies, founded by the sleeper. Mr. Mark Karpi, who... as you rightly mentioned, to this day all the circumstances of his tragic death are unknown and, you can say, giving much to think about. Perhaps it would be useful to harmonise these provisions and apply such criteria as are applied when the Director of the Western Institute is appointed, i.e. without specifying the degree of education or professional title. Well, because a master's degree is a professional degree, it's not a degree. Just leave it in such a descriptive form that it must be a Polish citizen, unpunished, familiar with this issue, etc. etc. Perhaps we would have avoided this whole discussion. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u302	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I happen to be at the beginning of the establishment of this central-eastern institute. It was the idea of a group of scientists from the Catholic University of Lublin, especially Prof. Jerzy Kłoczowski. And to this day, this research institute is based on this group. There is Professor Łaszkiewicz, who deals with these problems, this institute and prof. Łaszkiewicz cooperates with the Senate. He was among others. Last week at the parliamentary tripartite assembly of Lithuania, Latvia... I apologize, Lithuania, Ukraine and Poland, i.e. as if it were also some support and facilities for us in what we did at political level. So I ask the question: what is it? What's the point of changing things? These changes make all employees of the institute stop working after 2 months if they do not get a renewed job offer. Turn around, I mean... And this is the mechanism used once again in another institution, such as the tax administration. It's not like you're solving a job relationship, you're slowing down as it should be, because then you have to pay something, then you get fired, you can appeal to the labour court. There's such extreme, aggressive capitalism here. The Institute is being transformed, everyone loses their jobs within 3 months, unless they are offered a re-employment proposal, which is a kind of reversal of this principle, that when something is eliminated, people are released in a normal way, they are given some compensation, checks, well, that's 3 months, etc. That's one thing. Secondly, the requirements for the director of this institute are being reduced. So what if there's no such requirement in other institutes? But in this case, it's going down. There was a requirement that the director must have at least a doctoral degree in the field where the institute works. It's not here, which means it's getting worse. I'm not saying that all people with a census of education are the smartest, the smartest. I know people who don't have an education and who are superior to those with an education. But there are rules in the institutions that need to be followed. The case of Mark Karpi, whom I also knew and appreciated very much, is very different. He didn't have a doctor's degree, but he had a higher education. He created the Eastern Studies Center out of nothing. And here's a different situation. Here, the state creates a science centre and equips it with budget money. It's at least weird for me. Now the question of the Foreign Office and this initiative. It's a duplication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that in other countries there will be foreign centers of the institution that you are now creating, the Central-Eastern Institute... This is a duplication of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has its own scientific and research institute, the Polish Institute of International Affairs, which has considerable potential in foreign affairs. So the question is, why would you want to double foreign policy? This will undoubtedly cause conflicts and tensions, because that is what independent structures are like. Many years passed before the embassy was introduced, I would say, the outbacks of the Ministry of Economy It's called different names. They were engaged in promotion and trade. It was many years before it could be brought back into embassy structures. There was a situation. I don't know if this surgery is over, but I remember how long it took. So what's this all about? The Prime Minister is calling the director of the institute, but not the Prime Minister... The Institute will be supervised by the head of the firm. Minister Dworczyk will have the most to say when it comes to this institute. I ask: the Prime Minister creates a structure parallel to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? No. It is Minister Dworczyk who creates a parallel structure to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's gonna cause a lot of tension. Already there is an inconsistent policy of the Polish state in a rather critical place, in Lithuania and in a rather critical situation. The head of the Poles' union is suspected of embezzling a significant amount of money that was coming from the Senate. It's about more than 120 grand. That's the state. A few months ago. The Polish Ambassador in Lithuania attacks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, individual foreign ministers and refers to Minister Dworczyk. There's a duality here. What can this lead to? In this obvious case, the game begins with 2 different institutions. The Senate Bureau decides that the head office of the organization will not receive the money from the Senate, because it cannot receive it, and there I can see how different games are conducted to ensure that the money is received. This is a concrete example. This is an example of a bad situation. By creating these centres, especially those outside the country, you will lead to the dualism of foreign policy... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal. Time's up.]] ...will be visible. And there are people who have different interests who will claim once on those, once on those. It's just a run-down of Polish politics. I recall this example to show that it is dangerous. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u304	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Piotr Wach. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u305	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! My attitude towards this law is actually quite negative. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz began his speech with the question of the question, and then he broadly answered it himself. And I actually agree with that answer, so I don't have much to add. Maybe I'll say something in other words. The name is wrong. Of course, the name of the institute may be any, but this one is wrong, because Central Europe, at least in the UN classification, does not exist, is Eastern and Western Europe. And we are definitely part of Eastern Europe. The COP24 climate conference, which starts in Katowice in less than 2 weeks, will be held on behalf of Eastern Europe and we are taking this permanent lead as Eastern Europe. Of course, it's hard to call it a second institute... If something had to be changed, we had to do an amendment and leave this Institute of Central and Eastern Europe. It is such a typical staff law of the PiS. Mr. Marshal showed it. Many points to this and, above all, a reduction in the requirements of the Director. Of course, the director can also be a professor, and a doctor habilized, etc., but it is written literally that the minimum requirement is a master's degree. It means it doesn't matter, otherwise it wouldn't have been written down. The Scientific Council is meaningless, fortunately only 7-persons It may give opinions on a number of matters. Employees, just as in all these other laws, since the Border Guard started, are practically at the mercy of the decision-maker for 2 months, then they are fired or not, without any compensation and without normal proceedings. The Institute, as Marshal Borusewicz said, goes under the wing of the Prime Minister, when it is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. At the same time, the intention to put it into practice, so to speak, the administration of the head of the firm, is clear. I've seen there's a few permits for the head of the firm to look into the institute's records. So that it's actually a pathetic project. And I'm also really upset about this Central Europe, because it's actually such a mess with this whole Mid-Morning... It should be called the European Navel Institute. And then it'd be fun, it'd be exactly what it's supposed to be. I only see two positives. First of all, when it comes to spending, these expenses are defined and they are not too big to begin with, because they are, if I'm not mistaken, 4 million a year; then it grows and grows to 20 pairs. And secondly, there is Lublin, which I think is appropriate. However, it is a law from a series of laws, which should be highly criticised, a law to reject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u306	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that your speech to the minutes was made by Marshal Adam Bielan. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals... [[Oh, no, I didn't get anything.]] There's nothing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Grodzki...]] [[But it wasn't complicated.]] [[He didn't make it in writing.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I therefore ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Good. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 992, and the report of the Commission In print No 992 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present my position, the reports of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. This law was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on 20 November 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a special and important act, so that it is indeed an honor to present it. This is another good solution proposed by the Government of Law and Justice. It was a government project, the author of which is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, but it must be noted that other departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration participated very intensively in the work, and it was several years of work. This is, ladies and gentlemen, in short, the e-Professional Act. It is intended to introduce an electronic-layered identity card, and it is also about defining the rules for the functioning of this electronic layer. In fact, the aim of the law is to provide every citizen with a secure electronic communication tool with the administration, health services and commercial operators. This tool will clearly and undeniably confirm the identity of the citizen. It will also serve to authenticate e-services of public administration and to sign electronic documents. It will also be possible to confirm presence at a specific time and place using ICT systems. The new proof will have an ICAO application, which is a travel document with biometric characteristics, i.e. a photo of the face. . which will allow crossing of border crossings through the so-called. ABC gateways within the European Union. With regard to the content of the electronic layer, these data will allow the holder to authenticate it in the ICT systems where online services are provided, as well as the electronic signature of documents. This electronic signature will be a solution similar to the already known and used, both in administration and in business, qualified electronic signature. This signature, called a personal signature, will constitute an advanced electronic signature within the meaning of Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. With regard to the solutions adopted, this electronic layer of ID will include, among others.: Certificate of identification and authentication including data enabling electronic identification and authentication; Certificate of personal signature together with signature data; Certificate of confirmation of presence together with data enabling its use. A personal signature certificate shall be included in the electronic identity card layer of the person who has the full capacity to act and when submitting an application for an ID card shall give his consent to include that certificate, or of the minor who, during the period of validity of the identity card, shall complete the 18th year of age if the parent, legal guardian or guardian of that person consents when submitting an application for an ID card to include that certificate. The use of a certificate of identification and authentication and a certificate of personal signature will be possible once the holder of the identity card has established the codes for each of these certificates. The codes can be established in the municipality authority upon receipt of the identity card or at any time after receipt of the identity card. The important thing is that it will not be mandatory, it will not be an obligation, e.g. older people who do not wish to use this type of service do not need to activate it and then the evidence will only fulfil the function of this classic identity card. The use of a certificate of presence will not require the establishment of a code, and its introduction is intended to allow, inter alia, in the future. confirmation of the receipt of medical services by electronic means, contributing to the sealing of the health care system, as well as the possibility of implementing other facilitations for citizens and public administrations. The provisions of the Act provide for the possibility of suspending, for a maximum of 14 days, the certificates contained in a layer of electronic identity card in the event of temporary loss of control of that document. The suspension of the certificate will also result in the suspension of validity of the identity card and the operations carried out during the period of suspension or cancellation of the certificates will not have legal effect. If within 14 days the holder of the identity card does not revoke the suspension of the certificates, the identity card shall be automatically revoked. At the same time, the provisions of the Act introduce the possibility of suspending and withdrawing certificates, as well as filing the loss of identity card automatically using the electronic service intended for this purpose. In addition, the scope of data collected in the Register of Personal Evidence will be supplemented by data on new identity card statuses, i.e. the date and time of suspension, the date and time of revocation of the suspension and the designation of the suspending authority and the withdrawing authority, as well as the date of validity resulting from the decision of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to annul the certificates contained in the electronic layer and to extend the validity of the graphic layer of personal evidence. According to the provision of the Act, the identity cards issued before the date of its entry into force shall remain valid until the expiry of the time limits specified therein. The current law amends 44 laws. These changes will mostly cover the consequences of introducing new regulations in the Personal Evidence Act into the legal order. In particular, they provide for the possibility to use, alongside the qualified signature and the registered signature, a personal signature, the certificate of which will be included in the e-doctor. The amendments to the rules in force also concern the indication in the rules on authentication in the electronic systems of public entities that the personal profile can be used for this purpose. The law is to enter into force on 4 March 2019 with the exception of the provisions laid down in Article. 54 points 1 and 5. This is a law that did not cause controversy. In the Seym it was adopted virtually unanimously. With regard to the work of the Senate Committee, the Legislative Bureau has prepared 3 comments. At the committee meeting, the legislator withdrew from the first point of view because this comment was due to inconsistencies in the Lex programme. Two notes left. The first point concerned Article. 6 and related to the incoherence of this law with the procedated Act of 9 November 2018 on the National Debt Register. The proposed amendment was accepted by a departmental staff member, the director of the department present at the committee meeting. The second amendment proposed by the Legislative Office was, in fact, only about clarifying the refund, namely the words "trueness." There was a question of verifying the truth. And this amendment was also accepted. In addition, two amendments were tabled by the vice-president, Senator Spider at the committee meeting. The first of these amendments concerned an error in the wording of the Act as regards the upload of a certificate of authentication for minors over 13 years of age. The point is, with the consent of the parents, this certificate can be uploaded... After this amendment it will be possible to be uploaded with the consent of the parent or legal guardian, but it will be activated, so to speak, only after obtaining the full legal capacity. And the last amendment, which is also so precise, is to change the date of entry into force of the Act from 1 March to 4 March. All these amendments were accepted by the Ministry. On behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted with the amendments proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u308	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Any of you... [[Yes.]] Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u309	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, I'd like to ask you about the deadlines because I didn't catch one thing. Since when will new identity cards be issued with an electronic layer? And the other thing. It's worth it, I think it sounds like it. I take it the current, current evidence will not have to be mentioned? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u310	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yeah, I didn't say that. As far as the deadline for issuing evidence is concerned, it will be March 2019. And it didn't sound like it, but the fact that I said so, I said that so far I.D.'s kept their validity. At the request of a citizen, they may be exchanged for this new biometric evidence free of charge, before the deadline, but there is no obligation to exchange an identity card.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u312	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Paweł Majewski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: No.]] Thank you. Do the senators have questions for the Minister? Now's the time. [[There isn't.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. At the same time, I inform you that Senator Grzegorz Czelej made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1010 and the Commission's reports In prints No 1010 A and 1010 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The act is aimed at changing the chain of command of police units which carry out counter-terrorism tasks. It introduces a new counter-terrorist service, which will consist of the Central Counter-Terrorist Police Unit (BOA) and independent counter-Terrorist Police units. The Act uses the abbreviation BOA due to the recognition of this abbreviation abroad, as well as the possibility of reducing administrative costs which would result from the change of the name of the entity. The Act provides for the newly appointed service to carry out counter-terrorism activities and to support other police units under conditions of special threats or in cases requiring the use of specialised forces, means or tactics. The Act also allows for the possibility of withdrawing from compliance with the rules and security rules in situations justified by a higher degree of necessity, saving human life or reversing a threat to the security of the State when carrying out certain tasks. The commander of the BOA and his deputy, as well as the commanders and deputy commanders of the independent units of counter-terrorist police will be appointed from among counter-terrorism officers by the chief police officer as the personal superior. Organised officers of independent counter-terrorist divisions will be subject to the appropriate police chief of the voivodship or the police chief of the capital. During the counter-terrorism period, the BOA commanders will be responsible. The Act also amends the Law on special forms of supervision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, on measures of direct coercion and firearms, on medical committees subordinate to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests the adoption of a law without amendments. A brief discussion took place at the committee meeting, 7 senators supported the bill, 1 senator abstained. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u314	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration a report on the meeting of the committee on 20 November 2018, on which the Law on the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws was discussed. Speaking after my esteemed previous speaker, I am comforted not to repeat what was said. I would just like to add that the contested law was presented as a government project to amend the Police Act and some other laws. The law was adopted in the Seym without opposition. The result of the vote: 405 Members were in favour, no one was against, 2 abstentions. The Act aims to change the chain of command of police organisational units carrying out counter-terrorism tasks. Very briefly these tasks and this change were discussed by Minister Zieliński. There were no questions, no discussions. After the presentation of the subject by the Minister, the bill was unanimously adopted by the senators: 8 senators were in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. I'm asking on behalf of the committee to adopt the bill without amendment. No amendments have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u316	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Voice from the hall: Minister Zieliński has left.]] Minister Zieliński has waited long here. [[Are there any questions?]] I will ask you this, but I want to justify the Minister, to say that Minister Zieliński was here and has waited a long time for this point. If there are any questions for the Minister, I'll announce a recess, and if there isn't... Are they? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Good. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Grzegorz Czelej made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u317	Message one. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests submitted at the sixty-seventh Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of financial market supervision and investor protection in this market, Senate print No.997, will be held today immediately after the announcement of the break in sitting in room 182. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation and some other laws will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 176. Message three. The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the examination of applications for the Central European Institute Act will be held on 23 November at 8.30 a.m. on Friday in room 179. And message four. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the examination of the amendments tabled at the sixty-seventh Senate meeting of the Act on the National Debt Register will be held today immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217. And the second part of message four. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the review of the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, Senate Printing No. 1019, will be held immediately after the end of the committee meeting on the examination of amendments to the National Debt Register in Room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-senat-67-2.u318	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. It's a vote in the morning. [[Voice from the room: See you tomorrow, right?]] I'll see you by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 42]]
