ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Andruszkiewicz, Mr Duszek, Mr Jarubas and Mr Weber. The first part of the session will be Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Rafał Weber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 67th session of the Sejm to be adopted against the non-rejection of objections. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Louder.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...because some people can't hear. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland, - about farmers' cooperatives. These are printers 2815 and 2816 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on State Labour Inspection, - the Centre for Postgraduate Medical Training, - amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. These are printers 2814, 2822 and 2819 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski on his 100th birthday. This is print number 2821. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, - to amend certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and the protection of investors in the financial market. The designs are printers 2809 and 2812 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first readings of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, print No 2811. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Oh, Felczynski just broke down. You need to turn the screw on here, Minister. Excuse me, we're gonna make a technical change. I remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting. [[But it's a formal conclusion.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, print No. 2811, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The vote was 220, against 178, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I would like to inform you that we will be examining the formal proposals in a moment. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition to the item on the agenda was raised: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law establishing on 14 April - the State Holy - the Polish Baptism Festival, prints No 1456 and 2765. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to keep it on the agenda. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the establishment of 14 April - the Holy of State - the Festival of Polish Baptism, prints No 1456 and 2765, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 258 voted against - 140, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the groups: - discussions on: - information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2018, - a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber, - discussion at first reading of the government draft law on employee capital plans. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's report on the draft resolution on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period, the presentation of which was requested by the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club - the European Union of Democrats. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Now let's make a formal conclusion. Several formal applications have been submitted. He will be the first to submit a proposal from Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! On the basis of the article. 184 I would like to ask for a recess in view of the fact that you have reversed the logical agenda and are responsible today for the discrediting debate that will take place in this House. It is a debate about a very important date, i.e. holidays, which is connected with the creation of the Polish state. You did not allow this request to be motivated by historical data and materials from the PAS, from the university or any data that would justify the choice of 14 April. After all, we ourselves, as Chambers, celebrated this day on April 15 in Poznań. The date of April 14th in Polish history is known only for one fact: on that day in 1934 the ONR was founded. You want to set a holiday on this very day? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[I was born.]] Yes? Your credibility in this case [[♪ The bell ♪]] and these data are the same as the credibility of the professorship and culture. Don't talk to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u3	Thank you. [[The baptism of Poland was the 14th!]] Good. I would like to inform you that this matter was discussed at the Senior Convention meeting. I thought the Sejm should settle this case. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Reason: The Americans have no doubt that the Russian forces have interfered with the recent presidential elections. The defendants are already eight. Nor do they have the same doubts in the UK, France and Spain, where they ask themselves how strong this interference has been. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not a lonely island, and therefore we are demanding information from the head of government about what links Marek Falenta had with the Russian services and what were his links with the various policies of the PiS. [[Ask the owl.]] I think that the country, which so easily gave faith to artificial fog, fireballs, has no problem asking itself whether the Russian services interfered in 2015 in the elections in Poland and what they had to do with them. We demand information from the head of government. [[Applause]] Of course, the Platform [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the meeting of the security team, he will address this issue tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter was also discussed at the Senior Convention meeting and will be settled under the rules of procedure. There you go, Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a recess due to the following matter. [[Voice from the room: Why work?]] Last weekend, public opinion shocked information about a double homicide that took place in the downtown of Warsaw. 35-year-old Monica and 3-year-old Oskar were murdered. [[You're not ashamed!]] The person who committed this crime was on leave. We request information from the Minister of Justice on this matter. We refer to the Vice Minister of Justice supervising the Prison Service for information as to whether this Prison Service is properly supervised, because the statistics that are shown give us the impression that this service is not supervised and is left to itself. We're filing a formal application. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to inform the Minister of Justice on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u8	This case cannot be left to itself. This case needs to be cleared up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u9	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform the High House that this matter was also discussed at the Convention meeting and will also be dealt with under the rules of procedure. [[Voice from the room: How and where?]] Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying for the adjournment of the sitting so that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki can come here and present information about the giant sale of Polish land to foreigners. [[Applause]] According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Brudziński, in 2017 more than 1,000 were sold to foreigners. ha Polish land. That's twice as much as in 2015. You accused us of selling Polish land. You went to the election saying you were gonna protect her. You sell it on an unprecedented scale in the history of Poland. [[Applause]] PiS is a false defender of Polish land. PiS is a false defender of Polish agriculture. PiS is a false defender of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u11	Thank you. I would like to inform the High House that this request has also been discussed, because it is formally submitted... [[Voice from the room: So? What? Any conclusions?]] ...and was transferred to the agriculture committee for consideration. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! I am applying for the adjournment of the proceedings until the High Chamber holds a fair debate on the migration policy of the Polish state. Poland is experiencing a flood of visitors from Ukraine, China, former Indochina, Bangladesh, India and Uzbekistan. We're talking about bringing in millions of Filipinos. That's the truth. The state that rules has fooled the voters. You promised: no immigrants, and every year, tens of thousands of visitors come here from Southeast Asian countries alone. Under the authority of Brudziński voivodships from PiS issue residence and work permits in mass. The immigration invasion is taking place, and Poland is today the most open country for immigration in Europe. It is because of Poland that Muslims enter, people from all over Asia enter, and Prime Minister Morawiecki signed a declaration from Marrakech. [[Voice from the room: He didn't sign it!]] We need a serious debate. The Sejm must debate this. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u13	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three requests for a recess and two applications for a deferral. I'll put them together. Request for a recess... [[I'm gonna postpone the recess.]] Do you want me to postpone the recess? No. It's not funny, it's serious... There are three requests for a break. We will vote according to the order of the application, first on the request for a break. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 234, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the motion to adjourn the sitting. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 164 voted against - 235, 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u14	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.30, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation jointly with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: public health - immediately after the end of the votes, - an away meeting of the Parliamentary Group. Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws (Prints No. 2557 and 2631). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee and your fellow Members [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and certain other laws, the printing of Seym No 2557. Marshal of the Sejm at the 63rd meeting of the Sejm on 7 June 2018 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for its consideration. The Commission, after considering this proposal at its meetings on 6 and 17 July 2018, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The Extraordinary Commission has appointed a subcommittee to consider this project. The subcommittee amended the article. 118 § 1, Art. 119 § 1 and 2, Art. 122 § 1 and Article 1 124 § 1 Code of misdemeanors, i.e. with regard to the acquisition of property, intentional and unintentional fences, and the extraction and logging of wood. The amount was raised, the value of the object of the prohibited act: from 400 PLN - so was the project - to 500 PLN. This amount is a cesarean, is the limit value for offences and crimes against property. This amount was considered to be more appropriate to the level of revenue at present. The second amendment concerns a new definition of continuous act by adding it to Article. 12 Criminal Code § 2 excluding the grounds for committing an act of preconceived intent. The third amendment concerns Article. Ten misdemeanor codes. The following article is inserted: 10a with a new content, clarifying the cases permitting the execution of penalties and the application of criminal measures for offences which it provides, in conjunction with other acts, in view of the total value of the property of the offence and introducing the principle that, in the event of a penalty or a criminal measure of the same kind, a stricter penalty or a stricter criminal measure shall be imposed. The fourth major change concerns vacathio legis. The basic 14-day deadline for the entry into force of this law was maintained in the case of a vast majority of the provisions, whereas in the case of an electronic record of offences it is a period of 12 months. A period of 6 months has also been introduced for the adoption of a regulation by the President of the Council of Ministers on the imposition of fines in the form of a criminal mandate and on the amendment of the regulation of the Council of Ministers on the procedure for forms of criminal mandate. High Seym! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications, I request that this draft law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u17	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the draft law amending the Code of Offences and certain other laws, Seym Printing No. 2557 and 2631, in particular as regards the amendment of the provisions on the determination of the limit value of damage determining the classification of theft as a criminal offence by accepting the amount of PLN 500, recognising that this is a more quantitative solution than the reference of a fraction to the minimum wage, as it has been since 2013. I know that this salary changes every year; from next year the minimum rate will be PLN 2250. The bill also provides for legal provisions allowing the perpetrator to be free from the second type of substitute penalty, carried out in the form of useful work, by paying the amount of money still to be paid. Changes in the provisions of the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct concern the improvement of the procedure, the visibility of the role of the mandate procedure as the most frequently used procedure. The definition of continuous misconduct is also introduced in Article. 10 § 1. There have also been amendments to other laws, namely the Law of 20 April 2004 on the promotion of employment and the institutions of the labour market. These changes typize in a new way, among others. offences under Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of this law: The unemployed person who has taken up employment, other employment or economic activity without informing the competent district labour office shall be fined. This solution departs from the solution so far, from setting the lower limit of the fine at the level of PLN 500, which should be considered too restrictive for the unemployed person so far. The article was also amended. 120. 2 of this bill. It received a new wording: "A foreigner who is illegally engaged in work shall be fined. This gives him the opportunity to be punished directly in the term of office. Similarly, the Article has been amended. Paragraph 122. 1 Act on employment promotion in the case of persons who commit offences without fulfilling their obligation to pay contributions to the Labour Fund or not paying them within the prescribed time limits. The mandate procedure was also subject to a breach concerning the failure to notify the required data or to report false data affecting the level of contributions to the Labour Fund, or to give false explanations in this respect or to refuse to grant them. The draft law also sets the maximum limit for expenditure of the State budget resulting from the financial entry into force of this law - an amount of 28 891 thousand. zł - for the years 2018 to 2027, and it should be stressed here that this will mainly concern the introduction of an electronic register of offenders and a new IT system in general. The Law and Justice Club supports this project and requests its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u19	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club by Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform's position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act. In general, the project concerns changes in the scope of so-called. half-life, the establishment of a police record of offences, changes in the mandate procedure and tightening of rules on the holding of dangerous animals. Both substantive and editorial amendments were made during the work of the subcommittee and committee. In the current legal situation, half-off acts constitute a misdemeanor if the value of the goods does not exceed 1/4 of the minimum wage. Today the project developer proposes to return to a fixed amount and after work in the commission shows a cesarea of PLN 500; initially the project assumed PLN 400. In justifying the amendment, the committee points out that this amount is more appropriate to the revenue generated today. Of course, there are supporters and opponents of the increase in this amount, which was also evident during the work of the committee. Certainly, the proposed changes will still be discussed on a number of occasions, as will the way in which the halved acts are regulated. The Commission also proposes a new definition of a continuous act - the exclusion of one of the grounds for committing an act with a preconceived intention. Another amendment concerns the clarification of the cases for which penalties and criminal measures may be imposed for offences which it constitutes, together with other acts, because of the total value of the property of the offence and introduces the principle that in the event of a penalty or a criminal measure of the same kind, the most severe penalty shall be enforced. The Commission has also proposed to extend the vacathio legis of certain provisions. These are the most important substantive amendments proposed by the committee. As a platform, we will be in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u21	On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present our position on print 2557 and after changes, after work in committee - on printing 2631. Well, we have asked several times to look at the Code of Misdemeanors at all. Of course, with regard to the changes that are mentioned here, regarding the Code of Offences, the Police Act, the Code of Conduct in Crimes or the Employment Promotion Act - those that are listed here - it can be said that they are going in the right direction. Nevertheless, Minister, the problem is elsewhere. The problem is... Here's my question to you: Would you be able to answer how many cases there are in Poland about violations of the article. 51, which I've already mentioned many times? This is an article on the basis of which I can actually be punished for speaking too loudly in the courtroom today because a policeman or a city guard will come and say I'm making noise. Not much, the same cop or the guard who says it, then he's gonna be a witness in court. The problem is something else, the problem is that the Code of Misdemeanors is abused by both the city guard and the police to harass people. Here's the problem. I'm very appealing... Let me give you an example -- because maybe it'll be more graphic -- a person who's at an hour. 23.30 in the production plant, in a small workshop, arrives and turns on the machine. To report to a neighbor who lives there for two weeks - and this company is there for 30 years - the police are coming. Of course, this person refuses to pay his mandate and the case goes on in court of 2.5 years - 2.5 years. The motive is noise. What does that mean? If the manufacturing plant has all the permits, neither the police nor the city police should come at all on such a call, because to determine whether someone is loud or not, it would have to be measured by decibels. They'd have to have a decibelmeter, not measure it in the ear. Then they are witnesses, by the way, they are recorded, they give false testimony and after 2 years - it is good that they have been appointed legal counsel - this person is acquitted. That's the problem, Minister. The problem is that, unfortunately, law enforcement public officials abuse their powers by using a general article. Fifty-one misdemeanor code. And nothing has been done in this case. Once again, I turn to... Because this unfortunately again goes beyond the warp of this law, and there is nothing we can do about it. But it cannot be that, in the majesty of the law, those who forge protocols, those who abuse laws, are witnesses in courtrooms. It's just unacceptable. The Code of Offences - I appeal once again - requires a substantive review, reflection on what it looks like, and correct it in those places where it is necessary, not that we correct it in instalments, every now and then, a little bit. We will decide on the position of our club regarding further work at the meeting of the club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u23	On behalf of the club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch made his statement in writing. Before the next Member, allow me to say hello to a group of seniors from Opoczno and the municipality of Białaczów. [[Applause]] I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm and positive impressions from this place. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. And on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u24	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Code of Offences and some other laws, prints No. 2557 and No. 2631. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the project proposes a change in the rule by which it determines whether the theft committed is still a crime or already a crime. It's a big difference, because a criminal offence is most often punishable by a fine, and even five years in prison for the theft. According to the current regulation, this limit sets the value of damage of 1/4 of the minimum wage for work, i.e. currently 525 PLN. The project originally proposed that the limit should be a fixed amount of PLN 400 and any theft of objects of value above that amount would be a crime. During the work in the subcommittee, this fixed value was increased to PLN 500. At the stage of the subcommittee's work, a modification of the Penal Code was added to the project, according to which: Responsible as one prohibited act for the exhaustive character of the offence, who, at short intervals, on the same or the same occasion, or in a similar manner commits two or more intentional offences against property, if the total value of the property justifies the responsibility for the crime. The draft also contains changes to the deadlines: from 7 to 14 days the deadline for paying the mandate is to be extended, e.g. for traffic offences registered by a photo-radar, incorrect parking or not snowing of the sidewalk at home. It has also been proposed, ladies and gentlemen, to tighten the penalties for failing to protect dangerous animals. For example, one of the laws now being amended is: Whoever does not take the usual or prescribed precautions when holding an animal is punishable by a fine of up to 250 zlotys or reprimands. The amendment proposes raising the fine to 1 000 in this provision. zł and the possibility of a penalty for the restriction of freedom has been added. In certain cases, the fine can reach up to 5 000. zł. In addition, it is planned to establish an electronic register of offenders against property, persons suspected of committing such offences, blamed and punished. The register will be used by the police, prosecutors and courts to ensure that thieves who commit petty thefts in different cities are not responsible for individual offenses, but for a summarized crime. Ladies and gentlemen! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u25	Thank you very much. There's one person on the list of people asking questions. Would any of you, your messengers and your fellow Members like to sign in? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Therefore, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur on the budget. The talk was about 28 million PLN, which will be allocated for this purpose, for this project. And my question, because the rapporteur said that most of the money would be spent on the electronic system: How much will it be allocated to the electronic system, to the production, whether it will be created within the state units, or whether it will be an external order? And how much later is intended to maintain this system in the years to come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u27	Thank you. It was a question to the rapporteur, but he's not in the gym. I therefore ask Minister Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. In answer to Mr Pudłowski's question, I would like to point out that we have the annual term vacathio legis provided for the preparation of the system. The amount quoted is, of course, an indicative amount. This annual time gives us the opportunity to really think about what mode and whether by our own forces or by means of a specialized entity this system will be built. Such decisions have not yet been taken. They are also outside the scope of the Ministry of Justice's work. Here the cooperating institution is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I can give further explanations in writing because the question is so detailed that I can answer so much today. I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs for the fact that the clubs either explicitly supported this submission or did not exclude its support. It seems uncontroversial. With regard to Mr Jachnik's statement from the Kukiz club15, it concerns one particular case, the example cited concerns this, and the very idea of revision of the Code of Offences is close. To us as the Ministry of Justice. We're working on it, the work is at the preliminaries. We are aware of how this law is sometimes temporary, but also distant from today's realities. Art. 51 of the Code of Offences is obviously not covered by this submission, so I am unable to say how many cases of noise in Polish courts are pending, but I can certainly declare on behalf of the Minister of Justice that this is not the last submission concerning the Code of Offences, which will stand before the High Chamber. Perhaps we will also consider the issue of the article. Fifty-one misdemeanor code. I will point out that if it were like Mr Jachnik says that someone, some policemen or guards falsely testified in court, it is, of course, a crime of art. 233 The Penal Code and it was during this term of office that, at the request of the government, the High Sejm approved an increase in the penalty for false testimony. Previously, it threatened from 6 months to 3 years, now it threatens imprisonment until 8 years old. So if we actually had a suspicion of committing a crime, then in this case appropriate proceedings should be initiated, which, if this is confirmed, will certainly end with a harsh conviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u29	Thank you very much. And in the formula of correcting Mr Paweł Pudłowski - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this reply, and in that case I would like to ask you in writing for the amounts that I have asked for, broken down by system itself and for maintenance in the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u31	The forms of correction, Mr President, did not, therefore, happen because I gave the floor, but please... The correction is when something is misunderstood or misquoted. As there are no further questions, and the Minister has completed the answer, I am closing the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws, prints No. 2557 and 2631. The proposed project aims to amend the so-called regulation. half-deeds. In addition, it regulates the establishment of a police record of offences, changes in the mandate procedure, and tightening of rules on the holding of dangerous animals. The way of regulating the half-deeds has long been discussed in doctrine. Depending on whether the offence constitutes a criminal offence or an offence, the value of the subject matter of the enforcement action, at the same time the variable threshold of that liability, depending on the minimum remuneration for the year in question, was intended to achieve those values. The project submitted assumes a return to a rigid border. Originally, it was proposed that the Cesare should amount to PLN 400, but the subcommittee introduced an amendment to raise this amount to PLN 500. The project also provides for the introduction of additional powers for the Police in the form of the creation of a central record of offences, in fact a database of offenders, as well as suspected offenders and victims. This is an undoubted step to facilitate the fight against the so-called. thieves with calculator in their hand, i.e. with persons stealing goods of value only up to the threshold amount. However, there are doubts about the compatibility of this project with GDPR regulations. It should also be noted that the proposed amendment of the deadline for the imposition of a mandate for 60 days will in some cases lead to an extension of that deadline. These dates are currently different - 14, 90 and 180 days respectively - depending on how the perpetrator is disclosed. In the event that the perpetrator of the offence was caught in the act or immediately after the offence was committed, that period has so far been 14 days. The extension of up to 60 days in this area should be negatively assessed. The proposal to tighten the rules on the holding of dangerous animals deserves to be commended. Numerous cases of improper handling of dangerous animals prove that there is a need for change in this respect. The proposed proposal waives the definition of a minimum fine for offences involving employment, including illegal work by foreigners. This gives the impression of an ad hoc response to labour market demand, including seasonal work. However, there is no systemic action here, and such actions should be required from the rulers. Despite my doubts, it must be acknowledged that this project is moving in the right direction. Therefore, Members and Members of Modernity will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u33	We're moving on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on farmers' cooperatives (prints Nos 1425 and 2816). I ask Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives, print No 1425. The Commission proposes that the Sejm adopt the attached bill. As far as farmers' cooperatives are concerned, this problem, which has not yet been resolved, was already in 2004 a similar bill, slightly amended, to be sent to the Sejm. Then Mr. Belka's government took a negative stance on the parliamentary printing. Then, already in the years 2005-2007, we took similar action on the adoption of the Farmers' Cooperatives Act, but as we know, in 2007 that term was interrupted. In 2008, our club, Law and Justice, submitted a draft law on farmers' cooperatives. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition did not want to bring this into legal order. This was referred to the Constitutional Committee. The coalition's position was negative, too. Only in this term of office will the bill, I think, be passed. I'm presenting the committee's report today. It took quite a long time to work in committee because the bill required and required notification. The notification itself lasted almost eight months. From the moment the number was given to this day, and the number was given on 22 March 2017, almost 1.5 years have passed and today we are considering this law. The Commission shall, after considering this draft and approving it or adopting the rules resulting from the notification, present this report. The Farmers' Cooperatives Act lays down rules for the creation, organisation, activity and liquidation of farmers' cooperatives and their associations. It is a law which must be compatible in the sense of the application of the law with the cooperative law of 1982. This is, you can say, a special act for farmers, which will enable economic activity to be activated in rural areas, in the countryside. As we know, in the Polish legal system there are mainly capital companies or producer groups, and farmers' cooperatives, these typical ones, so far, have not functioned so much to the extent that this law provides for. This is where we introduce in the article. 6 that farmers' cooperatives are engaged in economic activities in favour of farmers' cooperatives' members in planning and adapting their production of products or groups of products to market conditions, concentrating supply and organising the sale of products or groups of products produced by farmers, concentrating demand and organising the purchase of the necessary inputs to produce products or groups of products to farmers. Cooperatives in addition to carrying out the activities referred to in paragraph 1. 1, may carry out activities in the field of, i.e. those necessary activities - the storage, packaging and standardisation of products or groups of products produced by farmers, the processing of products or groups of products produced by farmers, the provision to farmers of services related to the production of products or groups of products, the sale of products or groups of products, the dissemination to their members of environmentally beneficial cultivation methods and production technology, the pursuit of service activities for their members. Founders of cooperatives - this is also important - can be farmers whose number cannot be less than 10. The rules for the operation and economy of farmers' cooperatives shall be laid down in a statute which shall be drawn up on the basis of the Cooperative Law, but also on the basis of the provisions which are contained in that law. A very important issue is chapter 6, which provides that, in order to stimulate the development of common economic structures in the form of farmers' cooperatives and the creation of agricultural networks, several laws are being amended. Firstly, the Civil Code amends the fact that the contracting agreements between an agricultural producer and an agricultural producer also refer to the cooperative of farmers or the association of such cooperatives. The Act on inheritance tax and donations amends the tax exemption for the acquisition of rights to contributions to farmers' cooperatives, the Act on local taxes and charges in respect of the exemption from property tax, buildings and buildings or parts thereof and land which are owned or permanently used by farmers' cooperatives, the Act on income tax on natural persons as regards the adjustment of the rules in force to the proposed new legal institution concerning the possibility to dispose of shares in farmers' cooperatives, the Act on corporation tax as regards the adjustment of the rules in force to the proposed new legal institution concerning the possibility to dispose of shares, as regards the exemption from tax on the income of farmers' cooperatives operating as a micro-company from the sale of agricultural products or groups of such products or fish. And what is important is that the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture indicates that one of the tasks carried out by the Agency is to support the formation and development of farmers' cooperatives and their associations. Like I said, the bill was notified by the government. During the work of the Civic Platform committee, he announced that there would be amendments. Of course, the committee will consider these amendments. We are here together for this law, when it comes into force, to be the best instrument for the organisation of processing and trade in rural areas, but also for the concentration and cooperation of farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u35	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on farmers' cooperatives, contained in prints Nos 1425 and 2816. Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, the rapporteur of the committee, presented the bill in very detail, and I will not discuss it in detail. Let me just say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports it, and we will vote in favour of it at third reading, because, like the government, we see the need to strengthen the development of cooperative ideas in the agricultural sector. Cooperatives have very rich traditions in Poland. In the 19th century it was one of the forms of struggle to regain independence, it developed well during the Second Republic of Poland, but unfortunately it was distorted during communism. To this day, farmers, and especially the older generation of farmers, remember the times of the Polish People's Republic and do not have confidence in this form of joint action. However, the dissemination of the cooperative model would strengthen the market position of family farms. Cheaper purchases of agricultural inputs, better selling prices for agricultural fruits, common use of agricultural machinery are the main benefits for the farmer associated with the cooperative. It is therefore so important to establish effective mechanisms to support the functioning of cooperatives, especially in the early stages of their activities. It is worth explaining here that the government project provided for a much wider range of aid related to the creation and development of cooperatives than it provided for solutions which were finally included in the report of the agricultural committee in print No 2816. This was because the mechanisms proposed by the government constituted public aid within the meaning of Article. 107 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was therefore notified to the European Commission and the Commission unfortunately considered that the fiscal measures provided for in the draft law constitute State aid and are incompatible with the functioning of the internal market. The European Commission has recommended the introduction of provisions establishing support for cooperatives in the de minimis aid formula and this is what the Committee on Agriculture has put in place. I would like to draw attention to this fact mainly by Members of the opposition who may be criticising the bill as insufficient. The government planned wider support, but EU legislation and the European Commission's position did not allow it to do so. Nevertheless, the bill is a step in the right direction and, as I have already mentioned, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u37	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of expressing my opinion on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, expressing my position on the draft law in print 1425 and 2816. This bill is very expected by the Polish village and is an element, it is - in my opinion and my club - a panacea for many Polish pains, the pain of Polish agriculture, the exit from the dream of Europe, the state of being the cinderellas of Europe, etc., etc. We as the Civic Platform, looking at this project, discussing this project, have made a dozen amendments. I would also like to say that the climate among farmers, which is directly interested in what comes to us to look at this bill, is very negative. In Poland, cooperatives are not spoken well. I don't want to judge and decide why they say that, but that's the situation, that's the situation. Even Minister Ardanowski, who was not yet a Member, said very positively about this sector of the market in our country, clearly stated that he did not know the mechanisms that could be put in place to convince farmers of the elements of cooperative law, cooperatives of farmers, cooperatives of farmers, what works in modern, e.g. French, agriculture, Danish agriculture, Italian agriculture. Why aren't we using this? I would like to say that many solutions in this bill are correct, but a number are incorrect. The first element of the whole discussion on this subject is that we must respect the existing cooperatives, the solutions put in place by former Members, senators, parliamentarians, farmers, because if we do not respect the existing ones, then potential candidates, looking at it, will not want to join and operate in these cooperatives. What is it that you do not respect? The first point - it cannot be that a legal entity joins a cooperative of farmers and is not chosen e.g. to different authorities, supervisory boards, boards. This could be a very serious barrier in matters relating to the functioning of the entire cooperative. The second thing - it cannot be that a person excluded from participation loses his share. This is an unacceptable element - let's call it - the functioning of this law. There are a number of issues related to equity funds that play a huge role. A disfellowshipped person must have the right to own his or her compulsory and super-mandatory shares. No one will join the cooperative unless it is properly regulated. I would like to say that these cooperatives which have remained on the market in Poland, in our country, are in many cases - in the vast majority, because in more than 90% - champions. I welcome the reply and the position of the former Minister, Mr Jurgel, that there will be no obstacles to the cooperative nature of the past, but there are records that are slightly different. Cooperatives, among others. the current agricultural cooperative demands that after the article. 24 add a new definition of the concept of production cooperative as a multi-family holding. I will prove this in the Committee on Agriculture, I will try to convince you of this and not the other wording of our amendments. I just wanted to say that my whole adult life was because of the cooperative, and that's where I worked. I know this sector very well because I was professionally, professionally. I stand here on this stand, and as a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland I will say: 90% Polish problems would be solved if this project were to succeed. If you accept our amendments as a government agreement in the framework of this project, the most important ones, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this Civic Platform Club will vote in favour, considering that this is a development element, that there is such a need in our market and that this will decisively contribute to improving production in our country in all respects - and organisationally, and everyone else.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u40	That's why we're determining our position on... [[Corrections, make adjustments.]] [[Make adjustments.]] ...how the leading club will behave in relation to these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u42	Your Marshal, I will allow myself on behalf of the club to make the amendments that my club has prepared. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u43	I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika. The Member made his statement in writing. Therefore, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u44	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The proposed draft regulates provisions encouraging the establishment of cooperatives for farmers and their associations in order to create economic conditions for farmers to operate. Currently in Poland there are dairy cooperatives, cooperatives Chłopska, agricultural production cooperatives, agricultural rings cooperatives, garden-bees cooperatives and groups of agricultural producers organised in the form of cooperatives on a general basis, i.e. cooperative law or the law on groups of agricultural producers. The amount of income tax paid by these entities in 2014 amounted to PLN 56 million. In the west of Europe, almost all farmers are associated in cooperatives. Some of them belong to several cooperatives at the same time. I think it's a good direction. These provisions are intended to help build a stronger negotiating position for consumers of products. This is of great importance, for example. in the case of fruit producers. The intention of the project is also to reduce rural development disparities in relation to urban areas, as well as to reduce costs in the fragmented structure of farms. These are very important objectives and their implementation is expected by farmers, but the project, as my colleague mentioned, has many flaws. A general approval during the public consultation was given by the provision that not only farmers as natural persons, but also legal entities such as agricultural production cooperatives, as well as non-farmers, but also those involved in processing, would be allowed to join the cooperative members. However, the opposition precludes the possibility of belonging to the supervisory board of cooperatives, which contradicts the equality of rights and obligations of all members of the cooperative. It is important that the agricultural cooperative does not bear tax burdens, which are also not charged to individual farmers. However, there are no calculations of the financial implications for local government units with rural areas. As a result, it is likely that the growth of agricultural cooperatives would deprive the municipality of a significant part of the income from real estate tax and CIT, which could be used in the future for the development of infrastructure and investment for cooperatives as well. The association of rural communities calls for solutions similar to compensation for lost income as a result of the operation of special economic zones. In order for financial aid to be granted to agricultural cooperatives to be granted, a decision by the European Commission to authorise the application of State aid tax reductions was necessary. The European Commission has agreed to be granted, of course, only in the de minimis framework. This support is aimed at small and medium-sized companies. However, support for one entrepreneur must not exceed 200,000. the euro over a period of 3 calendar years. Unfortunately, the practice so far has shown that EU subsidies have not led to a greater integration of farmers, as some of them are not interested in increasing production. It is also necessary to clarify in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 provision concerning the loss of participation by a member of the cooperative as a consequence of exclusion. It is about clarifying the conditions for exclusion, which will result in such consequences. The proposed regulations lack an external control mechanism for cooperatives benefiting from the fiscal status granted by this law. Furthermore, as the Supreme Court points out, some of the proposed arrangements should apply to all types of cooperatives in the Cooperative Law in order to exclude the privileged position of newly established agricultural cooperatives in relation to already existing cooperative cooperatives. The Modern Posel Club is in favour of the bill, but subject to consideration of the comments I mentioned and the amendments of the Civic Platform with which we agree. I think this is a good direction, but give this bill a chance to make it look like farmers, cooperatives are happy and it's a real benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u45	Thank you. And on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm presenting my club's position on the Farmers' Cooperatives Act, an interesting bill, which I'm about to discuss. It's about the association first. Everyone here is talking about the fact that common forms of management, first of all, are intended to provide a farmer with the opportunity to buy production resources cheaper by the opportunity to negotiate low prices from suppliers, secondly, giving farmers the opportunity to counter the exploitation of the contractual advantage that exists today on the market by large operators who take the product away from farmers and, due to fragmentation, the farmer with a small share of the product is subject to this dictatorship. We are all in agreement here - as we have said so far, I will repeat this - that farmers should work together in this area, should create entities to represent them, which are to negotiate both the terms of purchase and the terms of sale together. Today, farmers already have this opportunity. The law allows the setting up of cooperatives, the law allows the setting up of producer and agricultural groups, producers and fruit and vegetables, also on the basis of cooperative law, is not excluded. But we are also all aware that cooperative activities are a particular form of activity, distinct from the activities of capital companies, companies with o.o. or public limited liability companies, the fact that it is not possible to dominate such an entity by capital, i.e. it is not possible for one large enterprise to dominate such an entity by bringing in a large amount of capital or taking over, buying shares of that entity, and then dictating conditions, and farmers to be just some minority shareholder with no greater impact on the wider scale. And that's the idea of cooperative. The cooperative causes that one member is one vote and that he decides on the same rights as the one who, for example, act as its President or member of the Management Board. This, of course, has its advantages, does not allow the cooperative to be dominated by one or two persons or by any group in it. There are also some drawbacks when it comes to cooperatives. And I am talking about this on the basis that I myself am a member of such a cooperative producer group, I have helped establish many cooperatives, I have amended cooperative law on agriculture or I have been an applicant for many such amendments in previous terms. So I'm saying this as a practice, not as one who's theorizing. Therefore, if we agree together - I also believe - that the cooperative is a particularly good form for farmers, it seems that the intention of this law should be to ensure that it provides specific conditions for the functioning of the market. And now the question is, does this law give such special conditions of operation? It does not give, as this law is merely an intentional law, which says that it would be good for farmers to actually come together in cooperative form, and in comparison with a limited liability company or a public limited company, there is no preference here. There is no preference here, because if we are talking about the fact that farmers, acting separately, trading, selling their products, who are not paying income tax today, because they are exempt from income tax, then when they do it by cooperatives, they will also not pay this income tax, then we do not exempt anyone from anything, but at the very least do not impose additional obligations. I am also saying this as a practice which would like cooperatives to be treated better by law than other entities, because if we are talking about the right direction, then such intentions should be taken into account in this project. I would like to say that cooperatives, producer groups were formed on the basis of the activities of the leaders. And those leaders who formed such an entity wanted to have a greater impact on decision-making, because they often contributed more money. And for many years, the director sitting here can confirm that, I have been fighting for more than 20 years to give preference to these organised farmers. We talked about the fact that farmers are unaware, do not want to act together, thinking that this is a commune relic, do not want such a communist entity to arise, or that a cooperative is something bad, or that it is best managed, traded and produced by itself. There's nothing wrong with thinking like that. Farmers want to work together, provided they have preferences. And when in the fruit and vegetable sector several years ago we negotiated in the European Commission, in Poland also, the possibility of financing, reimbursement of investment costs, the production groups started to form, farmers started to come together, also in a cooperative form - I am a member of a group that operates in cooperative form and is a group of fruit and vegetable producers - just because nothing like this convinces people to work together as economic benefits. And, I don't know, whatever we write in this bill, whatever noble ideas we bring, no matter what the Minister says next, or what the other Members say, is that farmers, if they don't feel the money for association, they won't get together. And this bill unfortunately doesn't show them the money, and this bill doesn't give them the money. This bill only says: act together, you will not pay the highest income tax. It's not enough, it's not enough. And it's not some deaf, dumb criticism, it's just a criticism presented by a practice that says that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Despite sincere intentions - I believe in them - despite the support of our club, which will be, this bill will unfortunately be a law that will not bring anything to organize Polish farmers, because it is only an intentional act, expressing desire, and practically no influence, because there is no preference for farmers encouraging association. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u47	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. And you start Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club. Time: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur, Mr Jurgel. In terms of improving the efficiency of management, because the state is so lacous in the explanatory statement that these actions will improve the efficiency of rural management, I would like to ask if there are any calculations that show more precisely what improvements are needed. We talk about efficiency on a national scale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u49	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u50	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the future, because the solution that we are considering today is some kind of regulation for today, but the regulation of space is very important, especially for the food market. On the other hand, my question is: What next stage does the Ministry envisage as regards the development of cooperatives in our country? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, Minister, I have the question of why in countries such as France, a more commodity agricultural country in Europe - in Denmark, Italy, even though some names are annoying about the commune, the point is that cooperatives are communes, these farmers do not give up this form of management. We know well that in France 70% all turnover falls on cooperatives, in Denmark - more than 90%. What prevents Poland from doing the same? I would also like to say, Minister, that I fully agree with the statement made by my predecessor, Mr Maliszewski. Preferences, money - without money, a golden idea will do nothing and there will be no solution. Cooperatives are discriminated against even to such an extent, there is the fact that agricultural services, de facto classic agricultural services, are called in the tax and fiscal system [[♪ The bell ♪]] as non-agricultural. There's no fiscal climate right now. This has to change. If that changes, it'll be a success. It won't change, it won't succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u53	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you if you do indeed foresee any further consequences of this bill. We have all been talking for years about the fact that the association of cooperatives or other forms of association gives a greater position to the farmer in the supply chain. That's what we were just talking about at the committee meeting. Shouldn't this law be the one that gives greater preference to a farmer's position in the supply chain? That's one thing. Secondly, my question is still to introduce the definition of a multi-family farm, which Mr Aichler is calling for and we are talking about this repeatedly at committee meetings. Would this form of change of entry, among other things, in the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and in this law not be helpful? Doesn't the Minister think that there should be a definition of a multi-family holding in addition to the definition of an agricultural holding, which could also make this final objective of strengthening the position of the farmer in the chain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would the supply be more complete? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u55	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing and discussing an interesting area of activity of farmers, and about some ineffectiveness - I am convinced of the good will of all those who speak about it - the impact on farmers, why in Poland cooperatives do not play the role they play in Western Europe. Indeed, as far as all the data are concerned, all the analyses concerning agriculture in countries - perhaps even more developed agriculture than ours - which we often refer to, whose market solutions we judge or admire - are based mainly on cooperation between farmers in cooperative form. This form was created in the 19th century and most, best suited to the expectations of farmers, especially smaller farmers, farmers who took action together and at the same time maintained a rational balance in decision-making, not allowing someone to dominate their joint activity. So we admire the functioning of cooperative organisations in agriculture in France, Germany, Italy, etc., etc. They also have a strong translation to the authorities of the European Union, because COPA-COGECA, or COPA, is the Committee of Agricultural Trade Organisations, while COGECA is the General Committee of Agricultural Cooperatives, in which, if I recall correctly, there are about 9 thousand. cooperatives from all over Europe. And it is an organisation affiliated to the European Commission, which has a strong impact on the decisions taken by the Commissioner for Agriculture or the European Commission in relation to agriculture and rural areas. Now the rhetorical question that I'm asking myself, which one you're asking yourself. Since this form has worked out, it is the most optimal, adapted to the expectations of farmers by the form of economic cooperation of farmers, why is it still, in Poland, a reluctance of farmers to cooperative? We're trying to find historical references, but it could be history. not so far away, because the experiences from the time of the partitions and prewars are as positive as possible. After all, cooperatives have been established since the first weaver cooperative in Rochdale in 1843. When it started to function in agriculture, they came from Europe to Poland under partitions to learn cooperative activities. Raiffeisen studied banking cooperatives in Poland. After all, there were leaders, patrons of cooperatives, light earthlings, priests, many farmers who were involved in the process of creating cooperatives. Just replace Fr. Brudziński, Stefczyk or Fr. Lorenzo. But there were many in every region of Poland who helped to develop cooperatives as a form of defending the interests of farmers. And here it is, you know, a simple recipe repeated both by Mr Maliszewski and by others: you have to give extra money, people will be interested and will want to work together. When farmers fought for survival while fighting against Germanization, Rusification, fighting for physical survival in Polish rural areas under partitions, did the killers give them any money, encourage them to do so, pay them for it? Besides, there are examples, after all known to all, of great financial incentives to create groups, fruit and vegetable groups or others. Very often these financial incentives go into millions, hundreds of millions for one group. This means that the legal form will be created, investments will be made, but when the reporting period, reporting period and the need to settle the funds cease, there is a solution to this group, the creation of new legal entities in order to often receive additional funds. Is it just money that has a problem with organizing farmers? I don't think so. Yes, we can recall the second historical area, perhaps even more affecting the mentality of the older generation of farmers, but strongly rooted in the Polish tradition, in peasant farms. This is a period of perversion of cooperatives, a post-war period, when under the banner of cooperatives, breaking all the rules, European cooperative rules established in Vienna were called cooperatives in Poland, something which as a living had nothing to do with this noble, beautiful, elevated cooperative movement in Europe. So the soviet-like collectiveization of agriculture after the temporary transfer of land to farmers in the form of agricultural reform 1944, then the forced collectiveisation carried out in a brutal way, the ruthless way that led, also as part of the fight against peasant movement, to murders, to prisons, and people, crying, entered production cooperatives called with Russian collectives, collective chasiaiities. Ten, almost 10,000. production cooperatives, which were formed in Poland after the war, in one month after Stalin's death, when the freedom of association was allowed, 9 thousand were dissolved. cooperative, in one month. That means it was an idea deeply incomprehensible and unacceptable by farmers. Unfortunately, this was the so-called state of affairs. Cooperatives influence the thinking of farmers, also this period after the collectiveisation, when cooperative societies operating in rural areas, I am not only talking about agricultural cooperatives, but also about other forms of cooperatives, it was a de facto extension of state power, it was part of the distribution of rare goods, because in socialism everything was rare: there was a shortage of coal, lack of feed, lack of fertilizer, lack of basic means of production, lack of machinery, lack of tractors, lack of everything. The cooperative was the intermediary who, for the chosen, for those who may have been more on the basis of a line, provided access to these rare goods. She was often associated with pathology rather than good organization of work or activity. Telling how much someone has in the GS, how much will it cost, etc., did not come from anything, so the dislike of farmers is at the moment an unjustified charge of cooperativeism, but somewhere deeply rooted in this historical consciousness of Poles. Now if we are convinced - and I have not heard the voices of opposition - that cooperatives should be developed that farmers need to be encouraged not only because the mythical European Union will give additional money, it will be for a moment, for a short time, the reporting requirement and such entities, as experience shows, are failing, not for the ad hoc benefit of some money transfers, but for this market position, which is increasingly difficult, which during this period, during globalisation, at a time - we have just talked about this in committee - the domination of powerful trading networks, the domination of large processing plants that consolidate and become even greater, the dominance of intermediaries on the market... Only and only farmers' cooperation can give an opportunity - it does not give that certainty, but it can give a chance - that organised farmers can be a link that will not be eaten, will not be dominated by those stronger market participants. So getting to consciousness, however, is, in my opinion, a more important element than just another money, not always well spent. There is an example of fruit and vegetable groups. I no longer want to develop this topic, because it is extremely difficult for me to lose credibility in the European Union and we are in the languages of Europe, but reaching this awareness especially of young farmers, the young generation, is very important. That's why these questions were going through, what are we going to do next? In a moment, I will refer briefly to the bill, or rather to a more important problem, which is how to develop cooperatives. First of all, I want the work to be done in this direction - in the curricula in agricultural schools of all types - to strengthen information on the benefits of joint activities, on cooperative activities, so that young farmers' assistants learn about how it has evolved historically, but at the same time to show examples and calculations, and models that economic cooperation between farmers is beneficial. Work must certainly be stepped up through agricultural advice, through agricultural organisations, to influence farmers. Recently, a little while ago, I was preparing to discuss this law, and I met with the vice-chief of COGECA, a Frenchman who represented the entire European cooperative movement. We agreed - I asked him to do so - that in the near future we should organise a European cooperative meeting in Poland within a few months, so that farmers from other European countries also come to us, on concrete examples, to present what they have, not mythical but real benefits of functioning in the cooperative area, with market participation, trade participation, negotiating terms of sale, also various margins that can be obtained through a joint purchase of inputs, joint preparation of products for sale, joint sale, obtaining also better conditions for logistics, transactions, payment deadlines, etc. I will strive to ensure that such an international conference in Poland is carried out, that representatives of Polish agricultural organizations also take part in it, because as I lively think that some of the organizations are not interested in encouraging farmers to create cooperatives, rather highlighting this individual character of Polish farmers, our specific characteristics, which may be distinctive in Europe. I will also invite you to this conference, above all, to these interesting agricultural issues. Is this law merely intentional, a collection of passwords, or does it bring some real, measurable benefits? It seems to me, even taking into account what the European Commission has questioned as unlawful State aid, moving this form to the de minimis area, that it is worth benefiting from this, because even the income tax on the turnover of cooperative members, which cannot always be carried out on individual farms, including. Because of the scale of the necessary technical equipment, it is something that cannot be despised. It seems to me that this is a direction that can encourage some farmers to a common processing base, to a common storage base, not so that each individual is doing so somewhere in his barns or in his farms. Also the mandatory abolition of property tax is, it seems, something beneficial. Sometimes cooperatives have been able to benefit from it so far. Assuming several agricultural cooperatives, I mostly obtained permission for tax remission in these municipalities, also from wójtów, but it was not mandatory, it was the good will of local governmentmen. Here, however, we introduce the principle that no real estate tax will be paid on all these squares, properties, areas occupied by the group's cooperative activities. This is a significant amount in the case of cooperative activities. The scope of de minimis aid will be extended for both a single entity and for Poland, as this formula is already being exhausted and those amounts which were granted to Poland are too small amounts. Also, ladies and gentlemen, a cooperative can be a recognised producer group and benefit from all that is reserved for the group. I would like to encourage you to adopt this law. Let us continue to work to build positive awareness among farmers and solutions that will make this most developed, preferred and probably best suited to the needs of agriculture a way of organizing farmers will also develop in Poland. I'm counting on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u57	Thank you very much. There was also one question for the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Jurgiel. Therefore, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as cooperatives are concerned, as I said, the first project was already in 2004. I am surprised by the Polish People's Party which did not lead, having its 8-year share in power, to the adoption of a law which was initiated in 2004. The bill can be corrected. With regard to the other reliefs we are talking about, unfortunately, this has not been achieved in the European Commission. Maybe you can try again, maybe you can get more. I am in favour of this organizational form, however, to develop it. There was such a report on the 100th anniversary of cooperatives by the National Economic Council in 2010, in 2009, we also held such a conference in the Sejm, there was a government together with organizations. There is a general belief, not only political but also economic, that this form of activity is very necessary in the countryside and should develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What about multi-family farms?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u59	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u60	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on farmers' cooperatives. A bigger one, maybe more. Farmers who have been demanding for years the introduction of favourable conditions for association in cooperatives are aware of this. In Europe, agricultural cooperatives are a widespread form of farmers' association. According to statistics, there are around 22 000 in the European Union. agricultural production cooperatives which have more than 50% participation in the supply of agricultural inputs and more than 60% in the concentration, processing and marketing of agricultural products. An example should be agricultural cooperatives in France, where many important agri-food companies have been taking over by cooperatives for several years and the creation of marketing and processing branches. Farmers control more than half of the agricultural processing industry in France through cooperatives and subsidiaries. There is also an increasing involvement of farmers and cooperatives in the production of renewable energy, which is encouraged by legislation which is lacking in Polish legislation. Another example - Italy. In Italy almost 6,000 were already in operation 10 years ago. cooperatives from different agricultural sectors: most services, then dairy, fruit and vegetable, meat and wine-producing cooperatives. Germany has also created excellent conditions for the development of cooperatives, in particular energy. Between 2006 and 2014, renewable energy cooperatives themselves were created there more than 700. Meanwhile, in Poland on an area of about 230 thousand. ha agricultural area is carried out by less than 700 agricultural production cooperatives. The main drawback of this law is that nothing will change. It does not provide real incentives or real support for farmers. The agricultural resort as the project's author expects the proposed solutions to improve the efficiency of rural management, to consolidate the distributed supply of agricultural products and, as a result, to increase the lots of delivered goods. Only that such assumptions are not adapted to today's reality and delayed by at least a dozen years. Farmers may not only be producers and suppliers of the basic product. They cannot, because in this way they become slaves to foreign corporations that have taken over most of the elements of the food supply chain under previous governments. In foreign hands there are buying points, fruit and vegetable processing plants, dairy houses and slaughterhouses, which dictate prices on Polish agricultural products. We're directly dependent on foreign capital. We lack sovereignty in the most crucial economic division for each country. It's too late for round words, no concrete and superficial changes. Today, the government is spending millions on social aid, boasting of lively consumption, growing pillars of sales of goods. It is said that the real beneficiaries of social programmes are commercial - foreign networks. Foreign capital essentially takes over most of the proceeds from commercial networks. Over the past few years, Polish grocery stores have gradually disappeared so that only a handful of them will be present. In view of the above, the measure of effectiveness of the contested law should not be the creation of several dozen new cooperatives, but the recovery of individual components of the supply chain, i.e. processing and trade. This is the objective that we should set before us, and this is the purpose of subjecting the provisions of the bill to it. I ask the Minister for such solutions for Polish agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u61	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the establishment of 14 April - the Holy of the State - the Festival of Polish Baptism (prints No. 1456 and 2765). Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This parliamentary project was examined by the cultural committee on 18 July. During this meeting, after hearing the applicant, who stressed the importance of this event in the history of Poland, Members began a wide discussion. During this discussion, the vast majority of Members considered that the commemoration of the adoption of the baptism by Apartment I, and thus at the same time the beginning of the Polish statehood, because these two events or this event identify itself, is important to restore in the consciousness of Poles the moment when the Polish state existed on the map of Europe when it started functioning. At the same time, the adoption of baptism and the beginnings of Polish statehood cannot be separated. It's not. Polish specifics only. Since then, many European countries have dated the beginnings of their statehood. Today we do not know the exact date of baptism, but most historians recognize that this was probably the case on the Great Saturday, April 14, 966. And that's the date they offered the applicants. In fact, there have been voices, such as Members of the Civic Platform, which suggested that it is appropriate to ask the Ministry whether such a holiday should be set up, but the overwhelming majority of Members considered that the possibility of establishing public holidays, by law, is a Member State's exclusive competence and there is no reason for any consultation, such as with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anyone else. There was also a voice that reminded many participants that Poland is not only a Catholic country, but that it should also be a secular country. Most of the Members were rather associated with the Polish People's Republic's tradition. When the Polish state was baptized 1000 years ago, the communists tried to separate church celebrations from national celebrations. Hence this famous 1000 years of baptism and 1000 years of the Polish state. Today, fortunately, we do not have to follow in the footsteps of the Communists, and most Members have decided that the traditions of baptism and the beginnings of the Polish state must be combined in a national celebration, which would not be a holiday for the time being, but would give the Poles a chance to remember this moment of the beginning of the Polish state. After almost an hour of discussion, several amendments were also adopted, which significantly shortened the text of the law, limiting it practically to the fact that we are establishing a public holiday, a feast of Polish Baptism, indicating that it was a very important date, it was a very important moment in the history of our country. The overwhelming majority of Members voted in favour of this bill by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u63	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Jack the World on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Act on the Establishment of the Baptism of Poland. At first, an old saying comes to my mind: better late than never. Just in the year of the big anniversary, we celebrate, we have to ask: We celebrate the 100th anniversary of what? Recovering independence. So independence, which once existed. And if so, why don't we have this first independence in the same way as we did 100 years ago? And so we reach until 966, the date that is undoubtedly the most important in all our history, because it all started with her. The decision of Living I to accept Christianity, and to accept it from the West, decided on our entire history. As the outstanding historian Prof. Andrzej Nowak writes, there could be no Poland at all if it were not for the choice of Christianity. The meaning of that event for the history of Poland has been spoken and spoken a lot. It is also worth noting that this date was also of great importance for the whole of Europe, because already in the year 1000 the name "Polonia" became a permanent one, as it turns out, on the map of Central Europe. Beautiful Gothic temples, from Wrocław, to Cracow, to Vilnius, as well as certificates of Western culture far east of today's Polish borders, testify to the sustainability and importance of the civilizational position of Poland. The political and cultural choice made in 966 led Poland to power in the 16th century, 17th century, and created a unique, republican and tolerance-based model of society, while the political thought, on the one hand, Paul Włodkowic, on the other hand the creators of the Constitution on 3 May, was a model of modernity, a model to follow throughout Western civilization. So it is worth reminding us on the anniversary of Poland's baptism, we need to continue to realize to ourselves, but also to the international community, that Poland did not start 100 years ago, but that for more than 1000 years it has made a very important contribution to the history and culture of Europe, not just the central one. The date proposed by the Act is, of course, hypothetical, but that is not the most important of all. Let's give the voice again to Professor Nowak: Mieszko brought into this process, the process of building the Polish state, the shape that we know and recognize to this day. But this process continues - some are building, others are storming, there are no limits to data once and for all. The young man in his goat showed the next generation how and how to build so that he could straighten himself up and sit in his own house. And that's why it's a holiday, a holiday that's not religious, it's not political, but it's all at the same time. The religious, civilized, cultural and political aspects of that decision cannot be separated. That was the time, and maybe that's what was beautiful in the Middle Ages. The Law and Justice Club, of course, supports the proposed project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u65	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Wojciech Król will give a speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are events that build the foundations of the existence of countries and nations. There is no doubt that in the history of Poland such an event was the adoption of baptism by the Prince of Living I. The simple ceremony of immersion in the water of the ruler of Polan turned out to be, using modern language, a leap of civilization and culture, introduced us into the circle of Christianity of European civilization. Leaving historians to settle the dispute whether Mieszko was baptized for political rather than spiritual reasons and whether it was the baptism of the prince or the baptism of Poland, it must be said that the process of Christianization initiated by this act led to the adoption by most inhabitants of the lands of the Polish Christian religion in the Roman rite. But let us also say that baptism was not just a religious event. Its meaning is much wider. After all, he defined the identity of Poles, incorporated the emerging Polish state into the political orbit of Latin European culture, introduced into the civilization of the Western world. We received a place in Europe and, as many say, it was Poland's first entry into Europe. Let us also note that when the first missionaries arrived in Poland, the long process of adopting Western political and cultural patterns, political structures and administrative models, writing, customs, and especially important - the legal system as the basis for the functioning of the Polish statehood began. From today's perspective we can say that Mieszko I provided Poland with the basis for development and participation in the community of European countries and nations. These foundations need to be constantly strengthened, built and cared for. The most important idea rooted in Poland's baptism is to base our country on the foundations of European values, which today unfortunately often threatens the destructive policy of the governing camp. We have no doubt about the significance of the event and its significance. However, we cannot accept the establishment of this holiday on 14 April. Given that there is no date of baptism Living I, the date of baptism of Poland is not known, April 14 is unacceptable. On April 14, 1934, the National and Radical Camp was established - an extremely right-wing Nazi camp. Given this date, you can presume... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...that it is an attempt to introduce extreme nationalists, xenophobics and often anti-Semitics into Polish politics. If the High Chamber consents to the establishment of a national holiday dated on 14 April, we can be sure that every year Poland will burn from the racs and sound war cry of nationalists. It will be a celebration of Polish divisions, it will be a celebration of the enemies of the European Union. It will be a denial of the values that incorporated us into the civilization of the Western world. The purpose of this operation, the establishment of this holiday on April 14th, is to distance us, and unfortunately in the majesty of the Republic of Poland, from the value of the European Union. European Union flags will be burned on 14 April on the streets of Polish cities. This bill is a reason for deepening further divisions, it's another excuse for arguing at the family table. And our problem today, which we have to deal with today, is to rebuild the community and re-integrate us into the community of values. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club expresses the will to establish the feast of the Polish National Baptism, but in no case can it be on 14 April. That's why we're making two amendments, Marshal. The first concerns the recital, which would be read: In order to commemorate the adoption of the baptism of Poland, Apartment I, dated April 15, 966, appreciating the importance of this decision, identified with the birth and baptism of the Polish state, the following is hereby decided. The second amendment concerns Article. 1: On 15 April the Holy Baptism of Poland is established. We refer to the National Assembly held on 15 April 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Shame.]] Shame is April 14th.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u67	Thank you very much. I do not see the representatives of the Kukiz club15 - neither Mr Piotr Apel, nor Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Of course, Poland's baptism was a civilization event, it was the beginning of the Polish state and the beginning of Poland's accession to the European community, just as more than 1000 years later Poland's accession to the European Union became once again Poland's entry into such a large European family. And contrary to the President's words, this is not an imaginary community. It is a community that gives Poles... It is not only a community of interest, but a community of values, a community that offers benefits such as investment, benefits such as economic development, benefits such as direct subsidies, but also benefits such as belonging to a family that gives us safety. However, we know that Law and Justice are under no circumstances about celebrating a civilization leap. Whenever modernity and regression wears off, the PiS chooses a regression. We do not know when Poland was baptized, even the date of the year is unknown, it is not certain whether it was 966 or 965 or 967. We don't know for sure. Whether it was April 14th in particular. But we know 100% that on April 14, 1934, an ONR organization was established. Therefore, it is to be expected that what you are doing is bowing down to the brown forces that you are raising the strength of aggression, that you will lead to a situation in which this holiday will become a celebration of hatred, not a celebration of civilization connected with Poland's belonging to Europe. I have a deep feeling that it has been a long time since I spread a protective umbrella over brown forces in Poland. Now this holiday fits exactly into this policy. Let us note the last ruling of the prosecutor's office, which stated that what was the beating of women, the state's consent to the brutal beating of women, was a display of dissatisfaction. It is not our consent, nor is our consent to establish a feast on the day on which the anniversary of the ONR is to be established. There's one more thing. Let's start dealing with the real problems of Poles. Let's not just do the next Christmas thing. We don't need another Christmas. Nor do we need to celebrate yet another church anniversary celebration. We do not want further resolutions concerning the subsequent saints and the next union of the state and the Church. Modern is in favour of the separation of the Church and the state. We have no influence on the fact that there is more and more politics in the Church, it is not up to us, but we have an influence on it and we do not want more and more of the Church to be in politics. We believe that it cannot be so that the Sejm is becoming more and more an outbuilding of the Church and episcopate. That's enough. Modern is against this law. We are opposed to bowing to the Church more and more. But we are also opposed - and above all, we are opposed - to more and more bowing down to the brown forces of ONR to raise nationalists to grow aggression, to grow hatred for all who are not what the nationalists and fascists want. Once again, you show that you really have the advantage of the fact that in Poland there are forces that are national, nationalistic, forces that hate others. And unfortunately, there is a fear that once again it will turn out that even on 11 November, which should be a celebration of all of us as a community, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence will become a celebration of aggression, just as on 11 November last year, when women were beaten, and your prosecution felt that nothing happened, that beating brutal women was acceptable. As I said, we have no consent. Therefore, the Modern will vote against this law. We are opposed to raising those who cultivate aggression. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u69	On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, Mrs Urszula Pasławska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u70	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Polish People's Party are in favour of establishing a state holiday - the Festival of Baptism of Poland. We agree that Poland's baptism was a state event of great political importance. By adopting Christianity, Poland joined the circle of Latin civilization creating the foundation of Europe. I would also like to point out that Christianity is widely understood, understood not only as Catholicism, but also because in 966 the confession was only one, Orthodox was separated in the next century, and Protestantism - up to 600 years later. In Poland, together with Catholics, there are representatives of other Christian churches today, and we all celebrate national holidays the same way. So we're gonna put it to you. to make the feast of Polish Baptism a day connecting Poles. We must remember that for centuries Catholics, evangelicals, Orthodox people lived in harmony in our country. Equal rights were guaranteed to all Christians already in 1573 by the Warsaw confederation, an event for these spectacular and innovative times on the scale of Europe. So let's learn from the story that we should be proud of. The feast of Polish Baptism should be the feast of every Pole and entire nation. Modern history is closely intertwined with Christianity, which is written in the Constitution. You don't have to be a religious man to live by intuitive Christian ethics. The most important thing is to recognize the primacy of values, which in 966 formed the foundation of Polish identity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u71	And also Mr Jan Klawiter, a non-member Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address some doubts as a representative of Members who have signed this bill on certain matters. First of all, it is obvious that each of us has a birthday date and for each of us this date is a fundamental date in his history, everyone refers to it or mentions it one way or another. Birthday is fundamental in life and man, and nation. It is obvious that the act of adopting the baptism of Poland, as you emphasized from the Civic Platform, was a motive, had not only religious conditions and for various reasons, both religious and state-making deserve absolute support. There's no doubt about that. [[We don't deny it.]] There are different cultural patterns, but I would like to clarify one thing. I am a representative of the Right of the Republic who proposed this bill. I've collected the right number of signatures. And it is not that you can burden the PiS with the fact that you invented a feast of Polish Baptism, and now accuse it of some hate raising, strengthening the brown forces, etc. That was not the basis of this bill, the bill was normal. This is a fundamental date in the history of Poland and must be indicated in the calendar. Therefore, this date really did not have any brown connotations, etc. I have to say brutally that I personally don't care if it's April 14th or April 15th. Historians give these dates... [[Even years.]] ...as most likely. In fact, that's not the point of the case. I will accept any solution that is proposed on this subject. Therefore, I also call for us to look for solutions to avoid division. There's no brown agenda for growing hate here. I wish all of us a peaceful understanding on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question at this point. You are beginning Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Recently, during the economic forum in Krynica, a Czech representative said that not everyone must be a believer and not everyone must go to church, but every European must realize that he has grown up in tradition and Christian values, as in Greek philosophy and Roman law. Poland has not been part of Europe since it was in the structures of the European Union, but since it was baptized. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves: What would Poland be today if it were not in the circle of Christian civilization in 966? That is why this holiday is so necessary and it will help us to find the answer to this question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u75	Mr Jacek World, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur to remind the debate in the Committee on Culture about, among other things. the dates of the proposed holiday, because I personally feel that today's reservations are being expressed forcefully, in order to actually torpedo this project. [[What are you talking about? Listen to your ear, not your stomach.]] It is worth reminding, by the way, that on April 14th e.g. An act of Sandomierz settlement was issued, one of the fundamental acts of religious tolerance, that many years later also on 14 April was created, for example. Association of Freedom and Peace, very freedom. Beautiful events related to this date. [[Yeah, the day of the homeless is April 14th, too.]] Many good and bad things also happened on April 15th. I have this misfortune that I was born on December 16th, when President Narutowicz was murdered, when there was a massacre of workers in Gdynia and when there was a massacre of miners in Katowice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it's fate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u77	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome. [[We still have to work on that date.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u78	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! Mr World... [[It's all bad luck.]] ...very nicely and gently juggles with dates, but on April 14th and 966 as Professor Maria Janion said, this is a fantasy, this is our historical imagination, not documents and evidence. Today, when the 14th of April is to be established as a public holiday, unfortunately we will remember everything that has happened in Poland in recent months, in recent years. There is no doubt that today we are dealing with the brutalisation of social life, not to say: the fascisation of social life. I have a question for you: Do you want to bring fascist hordes to the streets of the Republic of Poland every year on April 14th?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u79	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the rapporteur: What sources indicate that Poland's baptism date is 14 April? Well, in Poland there is a dispute between historians about this date, actually about the annual date, the day date, and even the place where Poland's baptism took place. By choosing the date of April 14th, you are sanctioning a certain vote in this discussion by law of the Sejm. That's why it's worth it for you to give us these sources from the podium. [[Before or after the wedding.]] And the second thing about justification. Well, speaking of baptism, the applicant's explanatory statement states: Thanks to it our homeland has joined the family of European nations, the circle of Western European civilization. And here's the full agreement. But the applicants further state: Therefore, today, in a time of crushing the foundations on which our national and state existence is built, in an age of uncertainty and concern about our future, about tomorrow's children, we should remember the anniversary of Poland's baptism. Do you share this view? [[♪ The bell ♪]] as expressed in the explanatory memorandum of the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u81	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I am going out, not so much with a question, but with a certain appeal to your Members of the Law and Justice. Since the Member's representative himself said that it is essentially indifferent whether it is 14th or 15th, and 14th it is known for what reasons it is simply unacceptable, whether you are able - and the case is important and no one is against it - to rise above and agree to this date on 15 April? Then, as a community, we can all celebrate this holiday together, not just watch these brown behaviors. Really, there is a request to you: once show that you can rise above your wrinkles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The feast of Polish Baptism should unite all Poles. Today's reservations, raised by representatives of total opposition, Platform and Modern, are to me a manifestation of some deep mental illness, deep soul disease. [[And you and Marshal Kuchcinski will talk. The assembly was two years ago.]] Because if you had reservations, given the real historical dispute, I would understand that, but you're putting some of your phobias at stake. Let me remind you that most historians, wondering what date baptism should take place, mention the Great Saturday, because most of the time in the Middle Ages baptism was on the Great Saturday. As it happens, in 966 the big Saturday was April 14th. If you said no, it wasn't a big Saturday, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was the feast of the Holy Spirit, I would understand such an argument. [[On Christmas and the day of Pentecost.]] Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u85	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u86	Nobody should...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u87	Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u88	...about this holy talk as you say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u89	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seemed after the meeting of the Committee on Culture that it was in principle agreed to establish a new state holiday, which would resemble most Poles, that there was a moment when this state was born. Of course, this is a symbolic moment, and so is the date of 11 November. It is also a symbolic moment, that day the Second Republic did not appear suddenly, a few days earlier there were seeds of Polish power. Some historians would like to move this date to the following days of November or perhaps even to the beginning of 1919. Nevertheless, symbolically this date was adopted as the one which should unite Poland and Poles today, in the century of regaining independence. It would seem that the initiative not our club, but the initiative of a dozen Members from several clubs and parliamentary circles should be the moment when we all unite, while I see the desire to convert the attempt to unite Poles into another attempt to divide Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] by artificially inventing problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u91	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! But I'm going to quote a conversation from the Convention. Please also discuss this amongst yourself, including Marshal Kuchciński, who himself admitted that on the 1050th anniversary of the establishment of the Polish statehood, in Poznań both Chambers participated in the solemn meeting, we accepted April 15 as this date. Why 15... [[The religious celebrations were on April 14th.]] Please, by not interrupting, doing something aimed at unity and harmony, not insinuating, because it is possible to establish various festivals. Today it is September 12th, here we are, the battle of Vienna, the Vienna rescue, some will want to establish Europe's day of defence against Islamism, but there is no question of the date of September 12th, but here we have not only a problem about the date, but even for years: 965, a year later, this interval is very large. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since there is no certainty, let us accept this date, and let us be consistent, which we ourselves celebrated as Chambers, and let us be serious. [[We celebrated April 14th.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u93	I ask you to answer these questions by the rapporteur of the committee of Dariusz Piontkowski. Let me remind you that this is to be a public holiday, sir, so referring to religious celebrations... I don't think that's relevant. [[He's got a voice from the gym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u94	Marshal, I must refer to what you just said. It is hard to imagine a public holiday, which in this case does not refer to religious celebrations, or how else to celebrate baptism... [[The episcopate assembly was 14, and ours was 15.]] ...lords of Polan - only indicating the moment at which he accepted this baptism. Therefore, Your Marshal, it is no different than referring to religious celebrations. This is a holiday when we must even refer to religious celebrations, regardless of what kind of state you have toward faith, to the Catholic Church and whether you are believers or not. This is a special moment. [[Exactly.]] So... Mr President, I have tried not to interrupt you, I would ask you to do the same. It's okay that there's really no one in 100% today. The accepted date and even the place of baptism Lives I. [[Exactly.]] Historians have really been arguing about this for several hundred years. Apart from Gniezno, it is often said about Poznań, about Ostrów Lednicki, also about Ratyzbon... [[Not even about Prague.]] ... about Prague and even a few other places. [[But it was Gniezno.]] The same is true of the date, apart from the day date, there are even disputes whether this took place in 966, or perhaps a little earlier, or perhaps even a little later. Today, however, there is a strong opinion among historians, for those reasons which Mr Dolata spoke about, that this was most likely done on the Great Saturday before Easter 966. I do not know whether you are so educated and experienced mediewists that you are able to question the view promoted today by the most famous Polish historiography. Perhaps you have some secret studies about which we do not know where you were taught a slightly different version of history and are able to prove that some other date is more appropriate here. Perhaps if it hadn't been for your speeches at the Sejm today, none of us would have associated this date with the interwar period. This country has a kind of persecution mania and refers everything to an extreme political group, which today does not play a major role in the history of Poland. Similarly, it was also during the interwar period, it was an extreme party which did not play a decisive role in the history of our stateship. You forcefully try to bring everything back to the fascists, to one group. You act like the extreme leftists in Europe who try to identify all their opponents with fascists, although this has nothing to do with reality. [[But why all the trips?]] Today you are again accusing Members who want this holiday to be established, trying to insinuate them that they are fascists, that they are trying to rebuild fascism. None of the initiators of this law, none of the clubs that supported the initiative, in any way referred to events other than only the baptism of Poland. If you're trying to find some other analogy... [[That's exactly what we're doing. If the initiator accepts the date 15...]] ...then all you have to do is... Mr President, I have tried not to disturb you, but the basic principle of culture is to listen and then to discuss, Mr President. Neither the initiators nor the supporters of this law referred in any way to any other historical events. The state is trying to build a narrative that is to fight Poles again instead of uniting them. If you look for a date of April 14, you can find a lot of other events that could be associated with someone, for example, that Primate Wyszyński signed a deal with the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, thus ensuring the functioning of the Catholic Church at the price of certain concessions during the period of the Polish People's Republic. It's also a symbolic date. There are many other events that took place on 14 April, such as the burning by a group of knights of the monastery robbers on the Holy Mountain. [[But are we talking about this?]] Dear Sir, I'm just trying to show that you have a kind of stalking mania, which is imposed on a normal discussion about the history of Poland and how the Polish state should function today. [[If the envoy accepts...]] You can't bring discussions to your phobias. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, none of the Members, not even those who opposed the draft law, paid any attention to the date at all. It was widely accepted that it was the date adopted in Polish history, and there was no discussion about it. [[Today at the Convention meeting, we talked about this seriously...]] Therefore, your doubts today are only because you are trying to force Poles into conflict and force their narrative that Poland threatens fascism. You cannot respect the most sacred things for Poles, including the beginning of the Polish state and the moment when we are baptized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Can I have one sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u95	Correct? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, on the correction. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u96	Just one sentence. [[There was no name mentioned, Your Marshal.]] But you were talking to me. Just one sentence. Just to respect the sanctity and independence of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u97	Mr. President, just a moment. Please, sir, wait. He has been a marshal since the sitting. That's one thing. Secondly, if you look at the Rules of Procedure, you will see that you do not have to mention the name, it is enough to misquote the statement or misunderstood it in the way that the speaker intended to present it. You don't have to name names according to the recipe. One minute, therefore. Mr Andrzej Halicki on the correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u98	And just to respect the Polish statehood and to be united and in the community, thanking Mr Klawiter for his initiative, I accept his statement for a good coin, because I do not deny that different dates appear in source materials. And the 15th can also be used for that. Today, the only document that accompanies this proposal is a document from the Sejm Analysis Office saying that this initiative is not contrary to the European standard. I am very pleased that Baptism Lives and does not interfere with the standards of the European Community. Glory to God, at least that's what we've solved. However, there is no other source document that confirms this date and not another date. Fifteenth in this case, if the Member agreed to do so, he would have stopped all the bad emotions. Let's avoid bad emotions and subtexts. That's all we're appealing for. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u99	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection (prints Nos 2351 and 2814). Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, I would like to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection, print No. 2351, entered the Sejm on 6 March 2018. March 20th this year Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading. March 27th this year The project was positively assessed by the Chief Labour Inspector and on 2 July this year. has been evaluated by the government. The proposed law aims to ensure transparency in the business activities carried out by members of the family of labour inspectors, in so far as it relates to the inspection activities carried out by those inspectors in order to avoid conflicts of interest. It is also designed to counteract suspicions of bias or interest. It is mainly about ensuring transparency on the basis of the intertwining of professional and private interests. On 5 September 2018, a joint meeting of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy took place on the first reading and examination of the draft law and an amendment on the Article was adopted. 3, i.e. the date of entry into force of this law. Both committees ask the High Sejm to adopt a law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection in accordance with the report presented in print No 2814. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u101	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on State Labour Inspection, print No 2351. I will start by saying that the Law on State Labour Inspection requires a number of amendments. This is included in the annual reports, there are demands for changes to de lege ferenda, also in connection with the discussion that is ongoing, that is the intention. On the other hand, the present Commission Act, the Commission's Act on Petitions, concerns one very specific issue. Why have we decided to support this solution - I am already putting it this way: the Law and Justice Club supports this project in its entirety - we have decided to do this in a unique way? Well, it's a very sensitive, sensitive thing, and I think it's bad for the image of the State Labour Inspection, just like any pathology occurring in public life. This obligation to make statements on blood relationships, family relationships, family ties with business people in an area that overlaps with the work inspector's tasks is only a signal. After all, we are all aware that blood compounds are not the only criteria or elements that can motivate or cause pathology, cause corruption. However, the introduction of this obligation is an important signal that the state, the labour inspection, is trying to eliminate this pathology, that this kind of phenomenon is seen as a corruption at all. So this will certainly encourage some discouragement of inspectors or their families to take such pathological action. Unfortunately, various complaints to the State Labour Inspection confirm that we are dealing with a real phenomenon here. It happens, there are situations where inspectors in the course of the inspection suggest to employers... This concerns both the provision of certain mandatory training and the commissioning of inspection tasks, which must be carried out in each workplace, by specific companies carrying out business activities. Unfortunately, it happens that these family connections are proven. The mere adoption of this law and the introduction of the obligation to make statements will be an important element, as a signal to the whole environment, that the state is watching and trying to eliminate these pathological phenomena. I believe that this will help to improve not only the image of inspection, but also the image of the state as a manifestation of concern for the release of our lives from all manifestations of pathology, corruption and irregularities. Certainly, because this concerns such a sensitive sector, an area such as human safety, worker safety, it will help to improve or improve the quality of health and safety at workplaces, it will serve to increase the safety of people, and that is what we are all about. Once again, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u103	Thank you for speaking. I would like to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club with Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on amending the Act on State Labour Inspection, print No 2351. High Izbo! In accordance with the proposed amendment, an inspection officer, i.e. a labour inspector, will have to make a written statement on the conduct or absence by the nearest person within the meaning of Article. 115 § 11 of the Code of Criminal Business Activity, the object of which coincides with the subject matter of the audit carried out at the company. It is therefore about informing about the business activity carried out by a very wide range of people, i.e. the spouse, the parent, the child, the siblings, the relative in the same line or degree, the person remaining in the relationship of adoption and her spouse and the person remaining in a common relationship with the labour inspector. The aim of the revision of the conflict of interests of labour inspectors must, of course, be supported. The Civic Platform supports all actions, including legislative initiatives aimed at eliminating or reducing corruption. However, the project is not entirely clear and it is worse when it comes to details. First of all, Art. 115 § 11 of the Penal Code defines a very wide circle of persons. Hence, the question arises as to whether it is too wide for revision. Will the inspectors not have a problem with the reliable and truthful provision of the information required? After all, the labour inspector may simply not know about the activities carried out by persons of his family or other persons closest to him within the meaning of Article. 115 § 11 of the Penal Code and thus expose themselves to negative consequences from the employer. On this aspect the amendment also draws attention to the government's position. In addition, the question arises as to whether the current Article. The 48th Law on State Labour Inspection prohibiting employees from carrying out any activity which is contrary to the interests of the State Labour Inspection or which does not comply with its tasks, and which is contrary to the obligations of the employee or which may give rise to suspicion of bias or interest, is not sufficient in this respect. It is also not clear what content the declaration to be made by labour inspectors will have. Wouldn't it be appropriate for the project to include details of this statement and not leave the freedom of the Chief Labour Inspector with regard to its content? At least some basic scope of information that will be provided in it should be specified by law. Or is it even worth trying to make a model statement like that? Finally, it is extremely important: a circle of people affected by the amendment. Why should the statements be made only by labour inspectors? The Act on State Labour Inspection distinguishes between the two in the article. 38 persons carrying out control activities, i.e. labour inspectors, from persons supervising the inspection, i.e. the chief labour inspector and his deputies, as well as district labour inspectors and their deputies. Shouldn't they also make such statements? This may be very important in particular when considering appeals against decisions of labour inspectors or decisions of district labour inspectors. The transparency of actions should apply to all those involved in the supervisory process. I don't think the government should have anything to hide, either, as it is required of its subordinates. As I said earlier, the Civic Platform supports all measures aimed at eliminating corruption phenomena, but the proposed amendment needs to be clarified, and therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I am proposing amendments to the procedated project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u105	Thank you. Allow me to say hello to the ladies of the hostess' circles and the ladies of the town of Nowy Korczyn before the next person arrives. [[Applause]] We wish you a successful stay in the Sejm and positive experiences from this place. I do not see Mrs Agnieszka Chasing from the Kukiz club15, so I would like to invite you to the speaker of Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the proposed amendment to the Act on State Labour Inspection. It is the printing number 2351 and the printing number 2814 adding the article. 44a in the sound indicated there. We see intentions, but we have some legitimate doubts. Namely, the proposed provision does not introduce any effective mechanism to protect against the possibility of corrupt behaviour, because it cannot be considered as such to introduce an obligation to declare, to this demanding form both positive and negative. By the way, this will apply to practically all employees of the State Labour Inspection performing control activities. Moreover, regulation creates only a bureaucratic obligation which does not translate into any form of liability by the person making such a declaration. To date, the statutory regulation referred to in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 that the staff carrying out the control activities cannot participate in the interests of the control entities remains a clear condition for the assessment of the legality of the control body's activities, which in each case must be assessed individually in the facts in question. In addition, the regulation omits a completely different group of persons carrying out tasks within the State Labour Inspection, namely persons supervising control activities also having control powers which are not bound by the provision of that Act. This means that people employed in the Chief Labour Inspectors, including executives, and district labour inspectors, e.g. Assistants or district labour inspectors are not covered by this obligation, which leaves this professional group most vulnerable to corruption temptations outside the obligation to strengthen protection mechanisms against corruption. In addition to any doubt, it is also too enigmatic to mention the content of the statement which must be made to the fact that the person closest to the undertaking is engaged in or not carrying out an economic activity whose subject-matter coincides with the subject-matter of the inspection. The labour inspector shall carry out about nine inspections within a month. So is the analysis of his professional activity for the submission of a statement to be the subject of any activity in this regard? This would lead to an absurd bureaucratic burden, which remains, as I mentioned above, without consequences. The credibility of this statement will be quite easy to challenge due to the circle of actors which the legislator covers the obligation to declare the person carrying out the inspection. The obligation to make a declaration in accordance with the draft shall apply to the nearest person within the meaning of Article. 115 § 11 of the Penal Code, i.e. the spouse, the first, second, siblings, the same line or degree, the person in the relationship of adoption and her spouse, and the person in the common life. Already the circle of actors itself excludes the possibility of making an effective statement, since the person making the declaration will have the opportunity to obtain information about the spouse of the person being appointed? It is also against the law to create responsibilities for those living together. This creates the possibility of unlawful interference with the private life of the person performing the control and in addition may result in the imposition of an obligation which cannot be effectively achieved, is the person making the declaration, nor will it be possible to verify such information. The mere identification of the circle of entities on which there is an obligation to declare constitutes a paracarinal procedure by linking them to criminal law rules. Apart from the provisions of the Act, which, through the temporary training mechanism of the Labour Inspector and the analysis of his social attitudes, including cyclical work assessments, allows to presume the integrity and transparency of the action of the State Labour Inspection Authority itself, and the cases of infringements in this area remain incidental and dealt with in internal procedures for this purpose, i.e. disciplinary and disciplinary. In conclusion, two points need to be addressed. Firstly, the training process of the labour inspector is complex, is spread over time, allows to assess the candidate not only from the point of view of his qualifications, but also moral and ethical attitudes, so important in the work of a public official. Secondly, everyone takes a vow before receiving an inspector's card, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the issue of the rule of law and ethics in professional activities remains an important element. Therefore, there is no reason for the draft wording of the new provision to be drawn up - from this proposal only a bureaucratic dimension can be read - the Modern Club supports its implementation in this way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u107	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. High Seym! Existing Law on State Labour Inspection of 13 April 2007, namely Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, standardizes the rules, in my opinion quite precisely, which should be followed by labour inspectors in the performance of their duties. The article of the Act that I am referring to introduces the norm that inspectors carrying out control activities in the field of their activities are independent of any outside influence and are not allowed to participate in the interests of the controlled entities. Also another article, specifically the article. 48 (1) (a) 1 ww. the law, lays down the rules and, in principle, the prohibition on employees of the State Labour Inspection to carry out activities which would be contrary to or contrary to the interests of the State Labour Inspection and would be contrary to the obligations of the employee, or could give rise to suspicion of bias or interest. It's an exact record of this bill. High Izbo! I am convinced that the prescribed legal standards are logical and sufficient to supervise and organise work in this institution, we are talking about the State Labour Inspection. However, there has been conviction and this has taken the form of a petition and a draft law, which we are discussing today, that these wordings are general and do not directly define the tasks and responsibilities of employees. It is a situation in which the inspector controls an entity engaged in an economic activity related to its closest person, as specified. I can argue that in a moment there will be another situation in public space, which will also not be precisely described in the bill. And this, in my opinion - this applies to this law, but also to any other place where we apply such a philosophy - makes the law more instructional, and it is addressed to the American consumer, than the form of statutory regulation. Let us look at the very wording of the proposed amendment and the content of the additional article, just the article. 44a. I quote: an economic activity which coincides with the subject-matter of the inspection carried out by that worker. After all, it was very broad and very illogical. It is good that this has been pointed out in the opinions and in the discussion that it is not the subject of scrutiny, but the scope of control activities carried out by this worker. I would also like to point out that the concept in the Act, the definition of the closest person, as has been mentioned here, is the reference to the article. 115 § 11 of the Penal Code, is very broad. This was also pointed out by the government in its position, and rightly so, I must say, that such a scope is an impossibility for an employee to fulfil the obligation imposed in this novel. This will, of course, be an excuse for signalers to run the whole action. To sum up, High Sejm, we stand in the position that the scope of statutory regulations should be relatively general. Adding additional regulations will not necessarily meet the intentions, even the good intentions reported in these ideas. This is, for example, the range of people closest to you, i.e. spouse, initial, immediate, siblings, relatives, adoptive persons, their spouses, and the person living together. Exactly, who can tell with his hand on his heart where he is employed when it comes to this range of people? I think that the employees of the State Labour Inspection will also have problems with this. This must be narrowed down, in my opinion, against the government's opinion in this regard. And that's what I wanted to introduce to the club. But I also have doubts about why - if we regulate, we specify this scope for the control body, which is precisely for the State Labour Inspection - why this does not include, this new law will not include it, the provision in the Law on the Supreme Audit Chamber or any other control body, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whose employees may be exposed to such doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u109	And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Free and Solidarni wheels against the Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. The purpose of the proposed act is most appropriate because it is intended to ensure transparency in the activities of the State Labour Inspection. In my opinion, the record clarifies the ethical principles in the work of state inspectors who are to be excluded from the audit of their loved ones. In order to verify, they are to make appropriate statements on the business activities of their immediate family members. Currently, the management of the State Labour Inspection does not have the information which companies provide health and safety services to employers are operated by family members of labour inspectors. With this knowledge, it will be possible to organise the work of inspectors so that there is no conflict of interest resulting from family ties. However, I share the concerns expressed in the government's position, as well as by the members of the committee during the process of examining the law, that it vaguely defines the closest person, which may cause problems in the implementation of the law. We do not always have such detailed knowledge to properly fill out the statement. Changes in the rules that allow for greater transparency in state institutions are always supported by me. About Free and Solidarni will support the Commission's bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u111	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who are going to ask a question at this point? I can't hear you. So I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating the amendment of the Act on State Labour Inspection, and there is no Chief Labour Inspector in the Chamber. Question: "Where is the chief labour inspector?" What is more important than change than the debate on the State Labour Inspection? [[Applause]] And second question. The aim of the bill is to counter the conflict of professional interests of labour inspectors and their loved ones. My question: Is this principle also valid within the inspection itself? Is it true that in the District Labour Inspector in Warsaw, the spouse of the Deputy District Labour Inspector for Supervision, a person famously e-mailed to the inspectors to be audited, is the Labour Inspector subject to this person? Is that right? Isn't that a certain degree of nepotism that exists in the labour inspection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u113	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether the Act sufficiently clarifies groups of relatives and relatives whose activities could lead to a conflict of interests with the activities of labour inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u115	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a problem because I actually wanted to ask a question about this statement, which will be required, but at the committee meeting we did not have a model for this statement. Now, the question is whether this statement, this form will be prepared by the Ministry and will therefore also be consulted as to whether it will be a simple regulation by your Labour Inspector. Unfortunately, I see that the Labour Inspector is working hard for his prizes and cannot participate in today's debate. Essential question: Has this form been taken into account yet? At what stage is this? Does it primarily include the protection of personal data in accordance with the amendment of the GDPR Act? Unfortunately, all this information is missing in the explanatory memorandum, and this was not mentioned at the committee meeting either. Hence the question: Are these standards preserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u117	Thank you very much. Before I ask the Minister to answer, let me say hello to the high school students. Jan III Sobieski in Lublin. Enjoy your stay and positive experiences. Welcome to the plenary room. [[Applause]] I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Stanisław Swed to answer these last and previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the questions to the Chief Labour Inspector, of course I am not entitled to answer them on behalf of the Chief Labour Inspector. The Chief Labour Inspector is under the Marshal of the Sejm. The questions are addressed to him or by the body in which the ladies sit, the Council of Labour Protection. I think you can talk about it there. The Labour Inspector shall participate in this debate by making an annual statement. [[And where is he, Minister?]] We're discussing today a revision of the National Labour Inspection Act. This is the bill that came out of the petition committee. This is the new kind of legislation. There's a petition bill. The bill was adopted. I think that, in principle, we all agree on the issues of sealing suspicions of corruption or other phenomena in this room. We're on, of course. I think that's how two committees approached this project. In this room, the question was whether the current article. The 44th Act on State Labour Inspection is sufficient to ensure that these negative phenomena that occur are eliminated. Clearly not. Hence the position of the petition committee. The whole problem came from the fact that there were signals that especially with training companies involving labour inspectors and family members this collision occurred. And that's why you're trying to regulate it. We in our government position have also drawn your attention to this, you have also raised this in your speeches concerning the circle of people, but it seems that this is not yet what we all want. This is kind of the beginning, because someone rightly noticed that we only touch the labour inspection, we do not touch other inspections that are, for example. The Supreme Audit Chamber and other inspections which do not have such solutions. And I think this is a good direction to start this discussion too and try to think about regulating these issues in all inspections, i.e. not only in the labour inspection, but also in other inspections, which is why this beginning is a labour inspection. Will this be as effective as we assume that in this case, when it comes to controls, these negative phenomena will be eliminated? The information provided by the Chief Labour Inspector at committee meetings showed that as far as supervisors are concerned, when supervisors take control, they are covered by that law. So the question is whether or not we need to be more specific. I think... [[I think we have to.]] ...if there is an amendment, then the committee will bend over again, because, as a rule, if the supervisory inspector is carrying out the check, then of course it should be included here. But the problem is wider. The petition committee drew attention to this. I understand that the committees have adopted a draft law with one amendment on the deadline, and I think this is the right way for us to try to find solutions for all other inspections, and then maybe even those provisions that are here to be clarified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Where's the main one? And this is the GDPR?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u119	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft law on ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016, print No 2818. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre (prints 2548 and 2822). Mr Tomasz Latos will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the two joint committees, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. In this case, a subcommittee was set up to consider this project. Then, at the meeting of the two joint committees, we adopted the report and the corresponding amendments resulting from the new Law on Higher Education. On behalf of the two joint committees, I recommend that the High House adopt this document. It is a document, which is very expected by the medical scientific community, by the Postgraduate Medical Center. This legal solution, a statutory solution, will help to further improve the functioning of the centre, especially in the new conditions created by the new Law on Higher Education mentioned by me. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u121	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the Act on the Postgraduate Medical Training Center, the printing of Sejm VIII of the term No. 2548. The draft law regulates the legal statute of the CMKP, an institution that has been operating for 47 years, i.e. Since 1971, on the basis of the Regulation of 9 October 1970. Unregulated for 47 years, the legal status has significantly hindered the fulfilment of the functions for which the CMKP has been established. The law on which we are proceeding today adapts the legal regulations determining the formal status of the CMKP to the current legal situation, including the Law on Higher Education, which enters into force on 1 October 2018. The Postgraduate Medical Training Centre was established as a separate scientific and teaching institution. In the process of developing health care, the medical centre took over the tasks of education and improvement in new medical professions. The Act sets out the tasks of a medical centre in the field of organisation and coordination of post-graduate medical training, defines the organisational structure and competence of a newly established institution which is an important institution in the national post-graduate training system of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, laboratory diagnostics, physiotherapists, paramedics and training in other professions applicable to health care where higher education is required. The establishment and development of new professions requires the establishment of a legally regulated establishment with precise tasks and competences in the field of post-graduate education. The bill assumes that the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre will function as a state legal entity under the name of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The primary area of activity of the institution shall include postgraduate training in the field of medical sciences, health sciences and physical culture, scientific research and development in this field, doctoral studies and postgraduate studies in the field of medical sciences and health and physical culture. The CMKP will continue to be supervised by the Minister of Health Just like in the case of medical schools. The draft law applied provisions similar to those applicable to medical universities. The legal solutions introduced are intended to allow for the development of a modern teaching and scientific centre. The funding of the CMKP will continue to be based on the state budget. The funds for the functioning of the institutions are to come from the subjective grant of the Minister of Health from the third degree study area. In addition, the medical centre may, according to the proposed rules, generate its own revenue from activities involving European funds. The Act allows business activities to be carried out to the extent permitted by public institutions, which is intended to facilitate the provision of paid training. The institution shall retain the old name. The provisions of the Act are adapted to the Act on Higher Education which enters into force on 1 October. The new Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. In order to maintain the continuity of the facility, some solutions will be maintained concerning, among others, the operation of the facility. Council of the Scientific Council until the end of its term of office, which began in 2017. The CMKP's statutory amendments provide hope for the development of a facility that will expand its research, development and teaching functions in line with the growing needs of post-graduate education. The solutions applied in the Act provide the legal basis for regulating the status of the institution and adapting it to new solutions in higher education and increasing specialisation needs in medical professions. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill as submitted to the Health Commission of 11 September 2018. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u123	Thank you, Member. And Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u124	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, print No. 2548. The Postgraduate Medical Training Centre as a separate scientific and teaching unit was established by a regulation of the Council of Ministers of 9 October 1970. The main objective of the Centre's activities has been for almost 50 years to educate and improve in the professional medical knowledge of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, laboratory diagnostics, paramedics and other persons with a diploma in higher education whose professions are applicable in health care, excluding post-graduate training of nurses and midwives. The Centre, in addition to coordination and post-graduate training in the above mentioned period. medical professions carry out scientific activities, carry out scientific and research work. He also has the authority to give a doctoral degree in medical sciences and a doctoral degree in medical biology and medicine and to apply for the title of professor in this field. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government, sending the bill to the Sejm, justifies that it is necessary to regulate the legal status of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre in the legal act of the statutory rank. The post-graduate medical training centre will be supervised by the Minister responsible for Health and will be similar to those of public medical universities. As a general rule of the draft law, it has been accepted that, in the field not regulated by the proposed law, the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018 will apply to the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. may not be applied directly to the CMKP. The bodies of the Centre shall be the Director and the Scientific Council. Authorities will be elected for a term of office on a similar basis to those used in medical institutions. The proposed solutions are more an attempt to adapt existing post-graduate education institutions and solutions to the health professions than to present a comprehensive post-graduate education law to the extent indicated. The draft law is based in principle on the current organisational and legal arrangements of the centre defined by the Order of the Minister of Health of October 2012. The draft law is intended to maintain the existing arrangements for post-graduate training in the professions applicable to health care. The arrangements adopted in the draft concerning the status and powers of the CMKP to conduct business activities in the performance of its tasks may lead to conflicts of interest by maintaining the powers to coordinate and control the tasks of other entities, conferring and withdrawing the powers to conduct specialisation training. The contested draft law ignores the basic issues relating to the organisation of the centre. The technique of recourse to the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and Science adopted throughout the project is not entirely clear. The fact that the Director of the Centre performs the tasks set out in the above Act does not mean that he is appointed on the same terms as the Rector. In the draft we have provisions on the rules of appointment and dismissal of the Centre's Vice-Directors, and the appointment of the Director is not subject to any relevant provisions. There is also a lack of provisions to determine what matters will be dealt with in the statutes of the centre. In view of the specific characteristics of the centre, it would appear that at least those areas which differ from public universities should be identified in the project and that the possibility of a different regulation in the CMKP Statute should be eliminated. The question should be asked why the government resigned from setting up the centre as a research institute. According to Art. 1 paragraph 1 The Law on Research Institutes is a State Organizational Unit [[♪ The bell ♪]] isolated... Half a minute, Marshal. ...in legal and organisational terms. The post-graduate medical training centre fulfils all conditions to function as an institute as well. Despite these comments, the Civic Platform Club will be in favour of supporting the draft law contained in print No 2548. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u125	Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the government intends to organise the status of the Postgraduate Medical Training Center is very good, but not in this way. After all, this bill, for which the government had a lot of time, was prepared in a way that I can clearly describe as a bullshit. After all, it was a psychic thing that we were working on a law in the original version that we were proceding in a subcommittee that was dated. So she was supposed to come into force on July 1st. The status of a medical training centre must be changed, but it could have waited a month and not caused a certain legal vacuum, because the law refers to laws that will soon lose power. If we waited 47 years, you could wait a month and adapt this law to the rules that will come into force from 1 October. Therefore, I will no longer refer to the previous statements of my previous speakers, who have said about this bill In fact, everything, but Kukiz-15 does not agree to such a form of legislation, on this type of, I do not hide, a messy way of doing the law. That is why we certainly cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From now on, it is not known how important it is for a healthy and functioning society to continuously improve the skills of those working in the field of medical sciences, health or physical culture. Health is one of the most important things that we politicians and legislators have to face. To face up to this challenge successfully, with a good idea that translates into a more efficient acquisition of new skills by citizens in relation to the above mentioned scientific areas. Not for nothing Jan Kochanowski, our Renaissance master of literature, so he started one of his famous frescoes (healing), stressing the importance of health in our lives, and he did so with these Here are the words: Noble health, No one's gonna know. As you taste, You're gonna break down. And we do not want the health of Poles and Poles to deteriorate, but if that happens, it is in our interest that they be treated and cared for by people who have the opportunity to continue learning in their profession. The proposed law on the Postgraduate Medical Training Center is an opportunity to implement my thoughts. The most important issues: legal personality, i.e. the fact of legal circulation, the possibility of conducting post-graduate and doctoral studies under the principles laid down in the Law on Higher Education or the independent organisation and the implementation of post-graduate training of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics or medical rescuers, i.e. representatives of these professions which we need in relation to the proper care for the health of citizens, testify to the willingness to create, hopefully, a functioning entity to carry out its mission. I welcome the introduction to the act of supervision of the Minister responsible for Health over the Centre, and I hope that Minister Szumowski, as a cardiologist, will pay the utmost attention to ensuring that the Centre is conscientiously responsible for its statutory duties, and that we, as an opposition, will carefully observe and request explanations when we see any irregularities, because we are talking about people who are supposed to care for the health of people residing in the Republic of Poland. It is commendable to include in the Act a requirement that at least 60% the Scientific Council, the second next to the Director of the Centre's Authority, must be the teachers of the academic centre having a professor's degree or a doctor's degree in habilitation. Such a numerical ratio should bring with it a positive charge, among others. knowledge, experience or specific authority, and raise the prestige of the institution in question due to its teaching character. It is also a positive impression that representatives of other academic teachers, independent academics, doctoral students and other staff of the Centre are present. In our view, this creates the possibility of creating as broad a collegial body as possible in terms of person, in which each group from the centre will have its representative. This diversity, in line with the characteristics of the activities of the collegial bodies, should lead to the adoption of such resolutions, from which the outcome will emerge as a kind of consensus between the proposals of the members of the Scientific Council. Chapter three, i.e. the financial economy of the centre, does not require a more extensive commentary. The provisions set out therein clearly regulate the possibility of raising funds for scientific and statutory activities. We are counting on this to translate into the actual activities of the centre and in the coming years we will be able to see the effects of this law. The changes in the rules in force, the inter-temporal rules and the adaptations contained in chapter four of the Act clearly indicate that the postulation of the Centre is to be a specific successor of the old centre. The succession of rights and obligations, labour, financial, property and bodies and their terms of office are regulated. However, the time to work on the bill was unfortunate. The work took place at a time when the law on higher education was not known. The so-called constitution for science enters into force on 1 October, so in fact it is only now possible to start working on a draft law on the centre, which contains a number of references to this law. This view is also shared by the General Council of Science and Higher Education. We appreciate the fact that Mr Latos has undertaken to prepare the amendments, but we are of the opinion that the law cannot be created in a hurry. We do not say that there is a need to regulate the situation of the centre, because there is a general belief that this idea is right, but the modern one was supposed to take care of new quality in politics, including the quality of lawmaking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the Modern Club will abstain on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas has the floor. No, I'm sorry, sir. You have put your position in writing. Please, Mrs. Margaret Mirror, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The work on this project so far has repeatedly stressed how important it is. It concerns the regulation of the basics and legal status of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, which was established in 1971, but - among other things. due to the repeatedly amended provisions on higher education, a new standardization of the core activity of the Centre is essential for its proper and efficient functioning. There is no doubt that the CMKP is an extremely important part of the national postgraduate education system of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, paramedics and other professionals whose professions are applicable in health care. It is therefore important that the basis for its activity does not raise any doubts. This project regulates this. On the basis of the proposed provisions, the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre will act as a national legal entity. The proposed regulations, despite the initial confusion, must be assessed positively in my opinion. The demand for qualified medical staff continues to grow, also because we are an ageing society. What the Polish health service looks like today, what it looks like to have access to specialists, as well as predictions in this area, we must always keep in mind and take such steps, which in the future will translate into an increase in the number of medical staff. This project, thanks to its new statutory mandate, allows the CMKP to undertake various forms of cooperation, which will positively affect the development, conditions and access to selected forms of post-graduate education. I am convinced that the regulations discussed today will contribute to improving the effectiveness of post-graduate education in medical professions, so that near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of the bill presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u131	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. The floor is voiced by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I actually have two questions. Question one: Why has the form of the Research and Science Institute of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre been abandoned? Aren't you concerned that this will reduce the relatively high scientific activity of the clinics that operate within the Centre for Postgraduate Medical Training, reduce the possibility of obtaining both EU and national funding for research? And what were the reasons for this not being a research and science institute? The second question is: Why is there no clue to the statute? Why doesn't the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health, leave in the hands of this force to influence what is in the only place in Poland that educates future doctors of specialists, should take place according to the principles that are lacking in this law? Because, of course, there is a different law, something else written by the staff of the Postgraduate Medical Training Center internally. So why did you take it out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u133	Thank you, Member. I don't see Mr Michael Honestly. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have such a short question about the financial resources, about the budget, because we are aware that without money it is impossible to educate anyone at this moment, and especially such an excellent staff as the medical staff. I have a question: Will this bill make it easier to raise funds for the CMKP? As far as I know, it is still the main source of the state budget, of course, but what other possibilities does this amendment offer at the moment? And I would like to ask you about European measures: To what extent will the CMKP be able to raise European funds and just educate doctors and other medical staff? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u135	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u136	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, first of all, to refer to the general comments that you have made. Thank you very much for your comments. Maybe to begin with, a comment on the objections relating to the procedure for proceeding over this law. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to remind you that this bill... Maybe from the beginning. Currently, the post-graduate training centre operates on the basis of a regulation by the Minister of Health, which set up the centre in 1971. At this point there were completely different legal, organisational circumstances. As I said, the appointing act was a regulation, so a lower order legal act. For many years nothing has been done in this regard despite the changing circumstances surrounding the functioning of the post-graduate training centre. The Minister of Health of the current government decided to put this situation in order and began work on a draft law on the Centre for Postgraduate Medical Training, resulting in a specific project which was submitted to the Sejm - and was given the number of the sejm printing - in May this year. This document covered all types of areas that are defined, which are defined in this draft law. As you know very well, in the meantime the Law on Higher Education was being examined, which is the general law to which this project, which we are currently discussing, had to adapt. As you know perfectly well, the Law on Higher Education and Science has entered into force since 1 October, and in fact in terms of financial regulation since 1 January 2019, it was published at the end of August this year. In view of the above, it was necessary to adapt the provisions of this proposal to the new reality which emerged after the review, to complete the legislative process concerning the law which I mentioned. Therefore, in this project, which you are talking about and which you are criticizing, there are terms which result from this printing in the Seym in May. The current project, which you have received, is already fully adapted to the provisions of the new law, which is of a systemic nature. This project, which we are discussing today, is also a draft law of a very general nature, but very important from the point of view of the functioning of the post-graduate training centre. As we all know, the post-graduate education centre is a very important organisation, an entity that deals with education, primarily post-graduate education, doctors, physiotherapists, other health professionals who have graduated from higher education. In changed circumstances, this fixation was very weak and it was therefore decided to change the system, i.e. primarily to give legal personality. The consequences of giving legal personality are issues related to the conduct of the financial economy. So, at this point in time, the Centre may have obtained funds from various sources, from which it has so far not been able to use any other legal form. It can apply for grants, it can receive subjective, targeted grants, it can apply for EU funds, it offers far more opportunities to raise funds. Few of this, too, can more effectively enforce all the debts that are due to him. So that generally improves the financial economy. The centre on the basis of this law will be equipped with assets, so it has a very strong legal formula, which allows very widely to carry out this activity, which is specified in the law. And now I'm going to address the specific questions you've asked. First line. Mr Pawłowicz - the allegation that the Act does not specify the procedure for appointment of the Director. We clearly indicate that the appointment of the Director is governed by the statute. The statute that the Minister of Health assigns. Therefore, such regulations will be included in the statutes. There was also a charge, the question of why in the Act we will not specify the areas which should be governed by the statutes. It is in this respect that our law is adapted to the Law on Higher Education and Science, because in the same way the issues of statutes are regulated in this general act, to which we had to adapt our regulations. Another question. Professor Chybick asked why there is no postgraduate education centre - a research institute. I would therefore like to remind you that the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre is primarily a teaching centre. It is supposed to lead the teaching, to work in the direction of conducting excellent courses in particular competitions. Of course, it also carries out scientific activities, but the core of the centre's activity is didactics. The Minister of Health has institutes that are targeted strictly at scientific activities, while due to the specific and fundamental tasks of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, we considered that this character is the most appropriate. Mrs April asked about the possibility of obtaining grants. I have already presented this information in the first part of my reply. Indeed, this increases the ability to raise funds, gives more flexibility to the financial economy, but the main thing is that at last the centre has a certain legal status strongly based on the law, which is a condition for the correct and good quality of teaching processes in relation to the professional groups it includes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u137	Thank you, Minister. And please, Mr Latos as rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u138	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to thank all those involved in this discussion in this debate. This is important from the point of view of post-graduate medical education, and I am pleased that it will be able to continue to operate under the new rules. I hope that we will all agree on this in plenary and support this project. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u139	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u140	Position of the club PSL - ED in relation to the government draft law on Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, prints No. 2548 and 2822. The Act will enable you to obtain the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. The title of a specialist will be obtained after completion of specialization training or after recognition of the existing scientific or professional achievements as equivalent to the implementation of the specialization programme and the sentence of the State Specialization Examination in a given field - PESoz. E.g. psychologist after completing the training and sentence of PESoz will be able to become a specialist in clinical psychology, a speechpeda - a specialist in neurologopedia and a medical physicist - a specialist in medical physics. The preparation of the Act was necessary because the regulation of the Minister of Health of 30 September 2002 on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection expired on 2 July 2016. The regulations proposed in the draft law are based on the solutions contained in this Regulation. The Act does not apply to persons engaged in medical professions for which the rules for obtaining the title of specialist are laid down in other legislation, e.g. Doctors and nurses. The draft law lays down the rules for establishing a specialization training programme in the field of health care, the rules for obtaining accreditation for the provision of specialization training in the field of health care. The principles of supervision of the implementation of specialization training, including its control, as well as the conditions and modalities for obtaining the title of specialist in health care, including the holding of specialization training and the organisation and conduct of the State Specialization Examination in the field concerned, are also presented. Specialization training - so far - will take place on the basis of specialization training programmes prepared by a team of experts, appointed by the Director of the CMKP Medical Postgraduate Training Centre - and approved by the Minister of Health. Specialized training in post-graduate education will be provided by training units that have been accredited and included in the list of accredited units led by the Director of the Post-graduate Medical Training Centre. The project also sets out the procedure for accreditation by training bodies. The applicant for accreditation will submit to the Director of the CMKP through the Monitoring System for Medical Workers Training - the application for accreditation in electronic form, signed by a qualified electronic signature or signed by a trusted ePUAP profile. According to the draft law, for the purpose of qualifying designated persons for specialization training, the voivodship will conduct the qualification procedure - from 16 December to 15 January and from 1 June to 30 June of each year - which will include an assessment of compliance with the conditions set out in the law. If it turns out that the number of persons fulfilling these conditions is higher than the number of training places, the competition procedure will be carried out. To date, the qualification procedure has been conducted in training units involving voivodships and voivodship consultants from specific fields. The new solution is to regulate the rules for monitoring the implementation of specialization training provided by the training unit. It will be run by a control team appointed by the Director of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The scope of the inspection activities and the powers of the controllers, as well as the documentation drawn up as a result of the checks and related procedures have also been defined. Impacts were identified for the training unit: in the event of a finding of irregularities during checks and failure to follow-up recommendations within the prescribed time limit, the training unit will lose accreditation to carry out specialisation training and will be deleted from the list of accredited bodies. These solutions will contribute to improving the quality of specialisation training. The draft law sets out detailed rules for the accession and submission of the State Specialization Examination in a given field - PESoz. It has been proposed to change the admission to this examination. On the basis of the previous regulations, the person who specialized in the exam and submitted a specialization card to the voivodship centre, together with the application for admission to the exam, could be admitted to the exam. The voivodship centre, after establishing that the documents fulfilled the formal conditions, passed them to the Centre for Medical Examinations. However, the provisions did not specify how the missing elements of the training programme could be supplemented. The competent entity for verifying the conduct of specialization training will be the voivode. It will act as a national consultant in a particular area of health care or in a related area if there is no national consultant in a given area and request an assessment of the compatibility of the specialized training with the specialization training programme of the person concerned. In the event of a non-fulfilment of the specialisation training programme, the national health consultant or related consultant will indicate the missing scope of the programme. Then the voivode will direct such a person to the appropriate training unit in order to implement the missing elements of the programme and set the deadline for their implementation. The person who has completed specialization training according to his programme - which will be confirmed by the voivode - will be able to apply to PESoz. The National Specialization Exam for every field of health care is organized by the Medical Exam Centre - CEM. PESoz is carried out by the State Examination Board - PKE. The draft law also provides for the extensive use of electronic systems in the process of obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection. First of all, the Monitoring System for Medical Workers Training - SMC is planned to be launched. It will speed up the process of specialisation training and ensure transparency of the procedures used in the training of healthcare professionals in the areas applicable to health care. It will also make it possible to replace the paper circulation of electronic documents. The IT system provides for specialization training systems, among others. the introduction of electronic specialisation cards documenting the course of training, which will replace the existing paper-based specialisation cards. In addition, the Monitoring System for the Training of Medical Workers will be able to apply for accreditation for the provision of specialized training, specialization training in the selected field applicable to health care, as well as accession to PESoz. The bill also provides for the possibility of joining the State Specialization Exam by a person who did not have time to submit it. This means abolishing the existing time limits for taking the exam. PSL Club - ED will support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u141	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on employee capital plans (print No 2811). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u142	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to you the draft Act on Employee Capital Plans - a comprehensive regulation on the establishment of employee capital plans as a programme of universal, voluntary, long-term savings collection. The draft law implements the assumptions introduced in the framework of the capital building programme, which is a key element adopted by the government in 2017 and the strategy for responsible development. The capital building programme is designed to build long-term savings and increase the financial security of citizens and the sustainability of the public finance system, develop the local capital market and improve the potential of the economy. One of the priorities of the Capital Construction Programme is to build a stable long-term and universal voluntary pension scheme based on third-party austerity programmes. Employee capital plans as one of the pillars of the Capital Construction Programme will be designed to systematically collect long-term savings by their participants for payment after the end of their professional activity. The introduction of universal long-term savings is justified in order to provide citizens with adequate value for their old age and decent living after reaching 60 years of age. The introduction of a uniform age for men and women giving entitlement to the payment of the funds collected is justified, in particular, by the Union's requirements for equal treatment in respect of, inter alia. to voluntary pension insurance schemes. The programme of employee capital plans is intended for about 11.5 million people employed. The first groups of people employed in the largest entities employing at least 250 people will be able to start collecting savings under the PPK from 1 July 2019. The programme will then be extended every 6 months to further groups of actors, including public finance units. The reasonableness of the gradual introduction of the PPK results from the scale of the project and the need to prepare the system infrastructure on the part of the Polish Development Fund as an institution performing the organisational and coordination function of the project, the preparation of financial institutions for the management of the PPK funds, as well as the proper preparation of the employment entities, in particular in the field of staff systems. High Izbo! I would like to stress that the draft law clearly justifies the fact that the funds collected under the PPK will constitute private ownership of the participants. The PPK's introduced saving mechanism will be an important instrument for collecting the individual participants' own savings in order to use them after they have completed their professional activities. The proposed solutions provide for the voluntary collection of savings under this programme. Each person employed will be automatically enrolled in the program and will be able to withdraw from making contributions to the PPK on the basis of a written declaration submitted to the employer. A return to the program was assumed every 4 years. The employer will inform the participant who has resigned from making payments, re-payments and resume payments unless the participant re-subscribes from the payment on the basis of an appropriate declaration made at the workplace. At the same time, the PPK participant who has resigned from making payments will be able to submit a request to the employer at any time to re-establish them and thus return to the programme. Payments will be made by the employer and the PPK participant from their own resources. The basic contribution financed by the employer will be 1,5% the remuneration on which the pension contributions are based. On the other hand, the basic contribution financed by the participant will in principle be 2%. remuneration, with the exception of less earners who will be able to make a basic payment of not less than 0,5% salaries. In addition, the employer will be able to declare an additional payment of 2,5% in the PPK management agreement. In turn, the participant will be able to declare an additional payment of up to 2% salaries. As a result, a total deposit of 3,5 and8% may be made to the participant's account. In order to increase the incentive to raise savings under these programmes, the proposed law also provides for special support for participants from the State financed by the Labour Fund. The incentive to start and continue saving is to be a one-time so-called one-off. a welcome deposit of PLN 250 per participant. The annual annual payment of PLN 240 will also be encouraged to make systematic savings. Investment funds or pension funds in which funds will be collected under the PPK will locate the assets collected in accordance with the interests of the participants, while maintaining the safety and efficiency of making investments and reducing investment risk. The funds to be managed will be placed in the so-called. funds of a defined date corresponding to at least the number of restrictions on the level of investment risk according to the age of the participant. They will apply different investment policy principles, taking into account the different age of participants, ensuring increasing security as the participant approaches 60 years of age. It must be stressed that the remuneration of individual financial institutions for the management of defined-date funds cannot be greater than 0,5% the value of net assets per year. In addition, financial institutions will be entitled to pay a maximum of 0,1% for the result achieved. the net asset value of the fund manager on a yearly basis, provided that the positive return rate is not lower than the reference rate. The supervision of the functioning of the capital programmes will be exercised by the Financial Supervision Commission as regards compliance with the right to conduct the PPK and compliance with the interests of the participants in those programmes. They will be entitled to all supervisory powers set out in the sectoral laws applicable to individual financial institutions. Where a financial institution or the fund has found an infringement of a defined date, the provisions of the proposed law relating to the functioning of the programme of the Financial Supervision Commission may apply the sanctions laid down in the relevant sectoral laws. An important element of the new savings system will be the records of employees' capital programmes kept by the Polish Development Fund in the ICT system. In order to ensure an adequate level of security of the PPK system from the perspective of the participants in the proposed Act, the requirement to allow the financial institution to register the obligation to meet the relevant experience in the management of investment funds or pension funds, capital requirements as well as investment policy requirements is set out in the proposed Act. The inclusion of the financial institution in the records of the PPK will be possible after the submission of a declaration to the PFR and the KNF of the fulfilment of the conditions in question and the transmission of documents confirming their fulfilment. By default, i.e. without having to comply with them, a designated financial institution, i.e. will be included in the PPK's records. TFI in which more than 50% the share capital is owned by the PFR. A portal for staff capital programmes will also be set up for the presentation of offers from financial institutions addressed to employment entities, for the presentation of information on the requirements for employment entities, the rights and obligations of persons employed, and for the future also to inform participants of the value of the funds they have collected. It will be run by the portal operator, i.e. by a subsidiary of PFR. In view of the specific savings targets collected under these schemes, they will in principle remain on the PPK participant's account until the payment, transfer or return is made. The basic principle will be the possibility of paying them once the participant reaches 60 years of age. Then 25% the funds collected will be paid to the participant once, unless he applies for payment of that part of the funds in instalments. Other 75% the funds collected will be paid in at least 120 monthly instalments, giving a period of 10 years. In addition, in the event of a serious illness of the participant, the participant's spouse or child may at any time apply for payment of up to 25% of the funds. In such cases, payment, depending on the participant's request, will either be made once or in instalments and, importantly, will not entail a repayment obligation. The PPK participant will also be able to pay up to 100% once the value of the funds collected in his account to cover his own contribution in connection with borrowing to finance the construction of a residential building, the acquisition of an apartment or land property, with the obligation to repay those funds within 15 years from the date of their payment. The draft law is intended to enter into force as a general rule on 1 January 2019. In view of the above, I ask the High House to work constructively and urgently on the draft Act on Employee Capital Plans submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u144	I wasn't surprised by the marshal. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding this draft Act on Employee Capital Plans. This project, as we have just heard in the Minister's speech, is a result, it is a fruit, it is a reaction to a very serious problem, an attempt to meet the expectations of citizens also, first and foremost, with regard to problem number 1, a problem that is still being discussed and which is still coming back in the public debate, but which also affects millions of citizens every day, namely the social security system. We are all aware that the current system is functioning in a far insufficient way and does not meet expectations, and moreover, it raises very serious concerns about the future. This is not just about the imbalance between the proceeds of social security contributions and the stream of benefits, which is much to say here, and which is also widely criticised as low. Not only do we have a gap in wages, but we also have a gap in the whole pension system. This case is a huge shadow. There's also talk of billion-dollar debts of an insurance company, money deposited on paper. But these are huge commitments to future generations. It is this government that, in order to move on to the essence and to, in my opinion, the main inspiration, as one of the most important goals, has set itself an attempt to face this problem. The 500+ flagship programme in our mind, apart from the huge social and aid dimension, was supposed to be and is a project that was designed to promote the breaking of the deadlock, prevent a breakdown or even, some say, a demographic disaster. We've got the fruit. We can enjoy them, but we cannot hide that these fruits are modest, they are not in line with the needs of our country and society, and they will in the long term not bring the expected return, expected improvement and substitution of generations, i.e. 2,14, during the reproductive period of the female population. It's a fact, and we need to be aware of it. We are also aware of certain experiences with the present, previous attempts also to create additional security mechanisms for the later period, it is not nice to say: old age. These programmes did not meet with the expected interest and today we are talking maybe not about a trace but marginal commitment, so the current government decided to come up with an initiative whose embodiment is the materialization of this draft Act on Employee Capital Plans. We just heard that. We are aware that 3/4 Poles are practically not put away for old age. That's what we have in the materials, in the analysis. There is a very small group of people, estimated at a dozen percent, who earn so much that in the expert opinion they could put off, but they don't either. Hence, a very important element, who knows whether or not it is not crucial, is some kind of encouragement, not propaganda, but concrete and material. It is unfortunately connected - because such an echo in the public debate we hear - with the need for some funding not only from the stakeholders themselves, i.e. employees, but also from the other side, i.e. employers. We know that we have a very good period in the economy, an economic situation, we have a good situation in the labour market, but the prospect of lasting - it has to be stressed - the burden on employers is not smiling, especially since on 1 January 2019 there is a very important programme, a programme that is expected from the point of view of public finances and social projects, a programme to abolish the 30-fold limit of the projected average wage in the contribution of workers. With regard to these two projects, the one we are discussing, and the one I have now mentioned, there are expectations in the public debate, in the discussions and in the questions, to resolve doubts and disputes which will happen in the future, and they are addressed mainly to the government and the parliamentary majority, Parliament. These two projects have one thing in common. In both cases, it is the employer, it is the trader who must add appropriately to the size that the employee will pay in this case. In the case of 30 times, so it's a cover-up project, we're talking about a total of 7 billion gross for ZUS, of which up to 5 billion on the employers' side. So for us, although both sides of this discussion are important, there is no doubt that always a hero, so I think, the key player is the citizen, the weaker one in contact, in the labour market dispute. It is for him that this bill establishes a welcome incentive and then an annual bonus from the Labour Fund. And that's the answer, I think, very good. And the doubts that arise here, indulgent, formulated by various environments, among others. trade unions, they don't get away with it. The Minister will agree with me that they are signalled, they are adopted and in the process of working on this law. In advance of the next speeches and questions, including critical votes, I would like to say that the security of these contributions, the detailed provisions concerning the conclusion of contracts, management agreements and conduct agreements... This law also shows a wonderful thing, namely the lessons learned from past mistakes. We remember - I look at Mrs.Ewa Tomaszewska - open pension funds, how huge were the rackets for running these projects. Here we see supervision, control and care of the state in order to avoid these abuses. Can we guarantee it'll be perfect? No, but we can do a lot, I believe it deeply, in the course of parliamentary work, so that this bill is as safe as possible, or as someone will say, the least dangerous. It is undoubtedly an outstretched hand, it is a project, a proposal to increase the safety of millions of older people. We do not know what the future will be, but we are analysing today's day, forecasts, prospects and this law is very interesting and very positive for employees. There is a point, a very important matter, also indicated in the discussion. In short words, because it is difficult with a very extensive project within 5 minutes to refer to everything, I would like to say that there is a problem with these weakest, least-earning people. For them, putting aside even a modest amount is a problem. We need to be aware of that. It would be very painful and sad if these workers gave up because their situation in life, I don't want to develop it, it won't allow it. This is a topic for discussion, and we need to think about it. I want to thank you, too... This may not be a perfect solution, but this law introduces a provision of the Penal Code to prevent real or alleged pressures that have always accompanied the situation on the labour market, when one blink of an eye the employer will make it clear that he does not wish the employee to use these records and reach out for the 2% or 4% , counting with an additional payment. Someone may laugh about it, they will say it's just for themselves, but I think even the inefficient attempts to defend the citizens deserve the highest respect in idleness, disregard, and such situations have taken place throughout the years in our homeland. I emphasize that with all my power, because you have to have the courage and resist the profanity, greed and human harm, because she can also, even with such a good bill, appear. [[But where are the Members to be the good one?]] In the course of work, Madam President. There are a lot of committee meetings going on right now. So that our young guests don't get any worse, I'll say that there's work going on and an empty room, unfortunately often met, isn't evidence at all, doesn't prove that Members in their rooms or [[♪ The bell ♪]] The banquets are upside down. [[Don't let the head be empty.]] Under strange circumstances, I'm forced to end. To conclude, this good, demanding still great work...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u145	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u146	...and consultation, I invite the opposition, the bill deserves support.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u148	My club will support this bill. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We're gonna have good offers...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u149	Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is being listened to by ladies and gentlemen from the rural hostels' circles from Wieliczka. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u150	He left his notes here. Mr President, I do not want to use them. [[This needs to be taken to the lab for analysis.]] [[Or is it? Why don't I tempt you?]] I assure you, no. [[That's what that would be.]] [[You're paying attention, or you're gonna get your punishment.]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Dear Our Guests! About the pensions of Poles, so about the lives of millions of seniors, PiS wanted to discuss 5 minutes. Five minutes is the time, [[Applause]] which Marshal Kuchciński assigned to opposition clubs... [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] ...to discuss billions of zlotys taken directly out of the employee's pocket and the employer's pocket. It was only the protest of the Civic Platform supported by other clubs during the Senior Convention that caused us to have 10 minutes. Moreover, the PiS wants this complex system of funds defined date to be introduced in 3 months. The workers don't know what's going on. They don't even know we're debating here today the idea of putting them away for their retirement. In three months' time, this system is about to enter the capital market. The capital market is to go first to millions, then billions - to a market that is completely unprepared for it, which is not ready for it at all, little of it, to a market that is, after all, in a very serious crisis. Suffice it to say that Altus TFI is the only company, the only fund that meets the capital requirements that this law puts before the funds. I have a question for the Minister, or perhaps to Prime Minister Morawiecki, because he is the beneficiary of the GetBack sponsorship. [[Yeah, that's right.]] Is this the Altus who's in a lot of trouble today because his founder was arrested in connection with the GetBack scandal? Is that where you're gonna send the money to future pensioners? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] How are employees and employers supposed to entrust their private money to institutions whose supervision is completely unable to control? The supervision of the financial market, for which PiS has been responsible for 3 years, could not protect thousands of Poles, thousands of private investors from a huge loss, from the fraud of GetBack. People lost PLN 2.5 billion in the financial market. [[Applause]] And what did the Stock Exchange do, which part of the money is going to go to? Just before the fall of GetBack, she gave him the award. Well done, sir, really. I am touched that the Member is so keen to support the draft prepared by the government. In the case of pension savings, the security of investment is a priority, a key and a key one. Security of investment. [[Applause]] However, there are no guarantees in the project for a future pensioner. He even reminded you of this recommended by you by the President of the National Bank of Poland. And the PiS today in these 5 or 10 minutes wants to close the discussion, push the draft through the committee later, because already October is scheduled for a second reading and of course the vote. This means that all this long-term pension saving, which is extremely necessary and important, which Mr Cymanski spoke so nicely about here, is, Mr Cymanski, as reliable in your performance as this 1 million Polish electric cars, which is about to be driven on Polish roads. We're not gonna let the pensioners be fooled like that. Now let's think again, ladies and gentlemen, why does PiS want to do this so quickly? Well, there are two answers. One is that on the stripes that the postman brings to the pensioners, they saw that they sentenced Poles to starvation pensions. That's why President Kaczyński promised 500+ for pensioners before the election. But they understand it's not gonna work. A one-off corruption proposal for voters will not solve the problem of hungry pensions of Poles. [[For three years.]] According to the OECD report, the Polish employee of the first pension in 2017 received such that it represented more than 38% his last salary. This is the worst result in all OECD countries studied. The average is 63%. Polish pensioners will get worse and worse due to the effects of reduced retirement age. We will have the youngest pensioners in Europe, but with the lowest pensions. And today you tell them fairy tales from the land of moss and ferns that if they invest in the Central Communication Port, they will be rich in old age. And here we come to the second important reason why the bill needs to be dealt with quickly. Today, PiS already knows that in the country of legal chaos, in the country of party courts and unstable economic environment, private investors have buried themselves with their money in corners. And they're actually right. No private investor will start an investment if he fears that PiS will change the rules of the game in a moment. Minister! Why do you think private investors aren't fighting for projects of strategies for irresponsible development, why don't they want to finance the ideas of the PiS visionaries? You must be looking for some answers. It's even worse. These investors don't even want to finance their good ideas, because they're just afraid that during the investment they'll find that the tax is different, some solution is different, and that the investment has to end in a payout at all. That's the basic reason you need the money of the workers and employers like a canyon of jam. The investments, instead of growing, are collapsing. It was supposed to be 25%. , from us you got investments of 20% GDP, over your 3 years, has grown to almost 16%. You cheat the employee and the employer and the taxpayer in general. You cheat an employee when you tell him that pension savings are the most important thing for the poor and that the poorest are about to put off, but you know that often the poorest one doesn't even work out a minimum pension and the state has to pay him one way or another, even if he doesn't put down a penny for his entire life. What's more, how are these people supposed to put off, like this first quintile group, which is 20%? the poorest Polish farms spend more than they earn? Then what's the money supposed to put away? The employer cheats when you say, "Employer, you add some, but we, the state, will also add something from the budget." What are you gonna throw in? From the Labour Fund. And who's transferring money to the Labor Fund? [[Employer.]] 93% The money in the Labour Fund is the employer's money. So you're gonna rip this employer off twice? [[What if the job market breaks down?]] You don't understand one more thing. The Labour Fund is the fund to be used by the employee and the employer as things start to get bad in the economy. Do you really think there's no business cycle that a grasshopper's summer will last forever? [[Applause]] Where are the employers going to take the money when the next crisis comes? And you're finally cheating the taxpayer because you say the debt won't increase. Not much, President Boris even said that it would be the other way around to accumulate real national savings. How'd he figure it out? Today we have a deficit of 25.30 billion. Every year, we're short enough money to get the budget up and running. Plus, we need to add a few billion to this system. This deficit will be bigger and the debt will be bigger. There'll be negative savings, unless that's what President Boris thought, but I don't think so. [[These are the negatives.]] And last but not least, I hope the Minister will address this. If the government's agenda is so good, why doesn't the largest employer, the government, include its employees? The whole budget sphere, all Polish teachers do not deserve this prosperity in retirement? [[Applause]] Why do you want to bring them into this system only in 2021? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Because they don't have money.]] When do you lie? Is it when you say the budget is in good shape? If he's in a good position, let the employer pay for these people. [[Applause]] You're gonna drop this on the next government after you're no longer responsible for public finances? Or does this employer, the government, think this is a bad idea at all? This project does not actually deserve to be discussed at all, but it is a pension system, pension savings, so let us discuss this during committee work. Surely the Civic Platform will not support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u151	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! Mr Cymanski! Mr Cymanski knows very well that I respect him. I like him, that's the truth. [[In return, sir.]] This is undoubtedly one of the Members in this very sensitive room. And I'm surprised he says things like that, because in fact the title of this bill should be completely different. The title should be like this: let's not fall for it or the government seems possessed and looks for money. [[Voice from the hall: For show.]] He extends his hand," said Mr Cymanski. [[To the people.]] Yeah, he's reaching out for our money. He extends his hand for the money of pensioners and pensioners above all. Employee equity programs are nothing more than OFE bis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a repeat of the entertainment. Let us not fall for all of this despite the spells that Prime Minister Morawiecki says that action on employee capital plans is something else, that it is within the framework of a sustainable development strategy. For whom is it balanced? In order to balance development, the budget must first be balanced. Since we spend too much, we have to take it. Who do you want me to take? Preferably the weakest, best pensioners and rencistoms. It's best to do what the previous government did with OFE. Where, then, will the contribution money go? What's the lobby with the Prime Minister? I hope this isn't treated as a charge. What's the lobby like? It's financial institutions. And this whole system is nothing but about giving back some kind of debt to financial institutions. The money from the contributions, ladies and gentlemen, will go to financial institutions, and it is not at all state-owned, so that the supporters of the PiS will be clear. How much of this money will be transferred abroad? What's it like? After all, this money will be invested in stocks and bonds. The pressure will be that it's government bonds. This is the money that the government collects to give itself to force us, especially older people, to buy government bonds, government bonds, so that they can finance their public debt. In other words, they're taking money to spend even more. It's a wrong wheel. This is unfortunately the way to tragedy, this is the way to financial disaster. Some countries have been through this before. I was hoping we'd be a little smarter. Are we going to invest in bonds, but not government bonds, for example. In GetBack? That's an offer, too. The amount of future benefits will depend on whether the capital market will be economical or not, i.e. pensioners will, as usual, be at the mercy of the market, which is in some sense justified. Let us not say that the government is going to protect them. The government has no intention of protecting them. The government wants to rip them off and then use this money for its own purposes, not necessarily in the social interest. The financial consequences of this project are one very important piece of information that these financial institutions will make in this whole system. There's supposed to be limits, but I'd like to know the real numbers, how much of that money is going to go abroad, and how much of that money is really going to be obtained by the retirees themselves. Financial institutions are simply enjoying it right now. They finally got some kind of return on this investment in the Prime Minister. We are pleased that the Prime Minister is at least faithful to his bank sponsors. That's a plus. Loyalty is important, we appreciate loyalty, but we would like the government and the Prime Minister to be loyal to their citizens, especially the weakest. The weakest must be supported, not the strongest. The Prime Minister's government speaks very much about economic patriotism, while the Prime Minister's government has granted foreign corporations for 2 years, calculated differently, at least PLN 250 million of grants, which it did not give to any Polish corporations to be clear. The JPMorgan himself got 20 million, not to mention the Mercedes, where we do not create, to be clear, Polish jobs, because there are no employees. There you have to bring workers from Ukraine to assemble, because this is another assembly, those Mercedes engines, which will soon be impossible to build in Germany under German law. The Germans banned the construction of internal combustion engines, which will come into force in a few years, so they will build them in Poland, they installed them to make it clear. It's another assembly. Another beneficiary of this whole system, these PPKs, of course, is the government. The government will have benefits he has tried not to talk about at all. First of all, part of the money, as I said, will be going into government bonds, for which it will provide its own demand, will finance its own deficit. Instead of introducing a financial balance, a budgetary balance, rather than a balanced budget, we are introducing a mechanism that must drive the deficit. It's a mechanism that forces us into a deficit. Even if there were surpluses, even if this propaganda, that there is a good system, that there is a great budgetary situation, was real, even if we had huge financial surpluses, this mechanism would really be rid of this surplus. And very well, the banks have to make a living, too. This benefit was recently expressed by the Minister of Energy, who said that the PPK's money would be managed by financial institutions, some of which would be controlled by the state and therefore could be financed by various not necessarily profitable institutions, piers, I do not know, some companies more or less state-owned. And so, once again, the retirees will finance not what they might need. In fact, it's a new tax, because if we look at the construction of all this, it's at least a hidden paratax. Labour costs will therefore increase rather than decrease. If we want to help the workers, let's do a simple thing. The employer's contribution to employers' relationships is deducted from the costs and the employee pays the contribution, e.g. For trade unions, she must not be deducted from the costs. Where's the balance? Where's the employee support? So let us begin with real small steps, not by ripping off our fellow citizens. A similar thing - I apologize for the harsh word - is the voluntaryity of employee capital plans. Art. 7 obliges employers to assume, so what kind of voluntaryity is there? This is an opposite concept to voluntary. If the government doesn't know that, take my word for it. We also have a couple of dictionaries, and they'll probably all be compatible in this area. Please note that Art. 107 provides for a fine for employers, even in the amount of PLN 1 million, if they sometimes do not want to set up a PPK. Just so it's funny, he's got one employee... I have one employee, and I have to start a PPK. [[Is that a good thing or a bad thing?]] Come on, somebody's paying for it. Who's the employer gonna turn them over to? An employee. Either this poor employee is gonna be hired in black, or he's gonna be bullshit, or we're gonna be chasing him, there's gonna be more fun. Another point is the incentives from the state. Of course, my predecessor has already talked about this here, although because my predecessor is from the previous government, she has of course spoken insincerely, it was a statement full of hypocrisy. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] However, the facts are that this is indeed a lie. If these 35 billion PLN over 10 years, mainly transferred from the Labour Fund, as you rightly said, Commissioner, will represent the costs of the PPK on the part of public finances, that is to say, In fact, another looting. In fact, it's another attempt at looting, another attempt to avoid, to remove this buffer, which is supposed to help us solve problems if the economic situation changes and changes, because it's not like we always have an economic situation. If there is any government action that has helped this economy, we thank you, but I will guarantee you that even if this government's super-actions are implemented, the economy will eventually end and a difficult period will be needed. My grandmother always kept the resources under her pillow for a difficult time - she couldn't get it and buy herself ice cream - but she survived for over 90 years. I wish our country could celebrate 200 years in the next 100 years, although I'm not so sure it will be. I also want to draw attention to one thing: the legal aspect. We are told that these measures are of a private nature. That's not true. The previous government has stated that OFE is not entirely private. Now the bill says that the nature of these measures is private. Some government will come, or maybe even this government will change it by law. If the bill can change the system, what, they won't change the nature of the measures? They don't even have a bill, if I know life, it's a regulation that can be arranged. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Cymanski, what's it gonna be like? A decree or a decree? Maybe there'll be decrees these days. We have no guarantee, only one thing is certain: that it is a jump on our money. I believe that our club cannot support this for moral reasons, so Kukiz15 will vote against this law, while it is open to discussions about systems to protect people from old age. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! I'm so sorry, I forgot. Of course, we are filing a motion to reject this project. Thank you very much. [[Would you like to apologize now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u153	Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It seemed that after 3 years of government, the PiS thought for the first time about how to secure the future of Poles, but unfortunately it is only an apparent action. As for the doubts that come out of the podium here, about how PiS thought first of all about how to make a jump on taxpayers' money, that is true. I will not agree with just one doubt expressed here, a doubt about the capital market, because in my opinion most of the money that will be saved by employees under the PPK will simply go to state investment projects, because this is how the mechanism of these employees' capital plans is constructed. Is that good for them? No, I'm afraid not. [[That's where we agree.]] But one at a time, because it's not really the only question that comes to mind when you first get to know the project. Indeed, it is the duty of the State to encourage citizens to save money for retirement. Employee capital plans were supposed to be such an incentive from the state, but the programme contains so many disadvantages that ultimately it will probably share the fate of other pension schemes and will neither become universal nor secure the future of pension Poles. First of all, please tell the Prime Minister never to say that it is a universal programme, because it is not a universal programme, since a huge crowd of citizens are excluded at the start, who simply cannot join it and who, for example, are excluded. participate in the OFE programme. The largest group of citizens excluded from this programme are self-employed, on which the state's money is currently making a leap. I'm gonna prove it. Self-employed, let's remind, are all traders, hairdressers, cosmetics, tailors, and even LOT employees who are forced to self-employed. Their future pensions will also often be starving, and the government today from the march deprives them of the opportunity to use the opportunity to save in the PPK, although it finances the PPK, or at least the bonuses that the state is supposed to pay out, with their money. How does this happen? The savings collected in PPK will come from three sources, i.e. an additional employee contribution, an additional employer's contribution and a State bonus. This last element, i.e. the savings bonus to be paid to the employee at start-up and then received annually, will come from the Labour Fund, to which contributions are paid, among others. All self-employed. And this is a scandal, because in times of minimum unemployment a contribution to the Labour Fund, which includes. He was supposed to fight unemployment, he should just be reduced. And you say, "No, we're not gonna lower any self-employed contributions to the Labour Fund, we're gonna finance other people's pensions out of their money." And it's really hard for all self-employed people, because today this contribution is paid, among others. a lady working at a marketplace who has to earn 1,200 zlotys first to pay her own pension, health insurance, etc. To the ZUS cash register. So the problem is that not everyone who puts money in a bag will be able to get it back from this bag, even though the state has started to distribute their money. And since it is unnecessary because in general unemployment in Poland has fallen, the contribution to the Labour Fund should simply be eliminated or at least reduced. Please tell the Prime Minister one more thing, namely that he never again repeats that he is giving something to the citizens, because citizens finance it themselves, and you are simply transferring money from one bag to another, from the Labour Fund's cash register to the employee's capital plans, which means you are transferring it from the fund's money, where it is lying and no longer necessary, because there is no unemployment, practically future pension accounts of citizens. You don't give them anything. The second question is that you generate huge costs for employers, which may in the future stimulate inflation, but also create various other problems. The subject that has already been addressed here - why is it that the administration only joins the programme on 10 April 2021 and that private employers join it already in 2019 and 2020? Because you don't care if private employers find money for this, or if they have it budgeted, they have it in their budgets for next year. [[Applause]] You're not interested in the fact that today the situation on the labour market is really hard, that you can't find hands to work, that wages are growing faster than the productivity of work, that many employers are experiencing huge difficulties. You give yourself more than two years, and you say to your private employers, "We're not interested in finding money." If you do, it's your problem. I cannot imagine that such a different approach to employers depends on whether they are national employers or private employers. If you as the administration state that before 2021 you are unable to find money in the administration to cover these costs, private employers will probably have the same problem. And it can only bounce back so you can stimulate inflation again. The money on the PPK is money for the investment ideas of the PiS. That's the subject I started with. Our money will be managed by pension fund associations, general pension societies or insurers. But this time it won't be like the OFE - the employee will not make the decision alone, but the employer will make the decision. And the question is: Will the employer, in the form of a company of the Treasury or state administration, make the best decision for the employee or the best decision for the government? In my opinion, it will unfortunately be a political decision, so it will most likely choose the TFI PFR, the Association of Investment Funds of the State Development Fund. What does that mean? The fact that citizens' money will be invested not in free private projects, which usually have the highest rate of return, but in state investments such as. Central Communication Port. What do we know about Central Communications Port? Yeah, well, it's supposed to be big. But when it is profitable and whether it will ever be profitable, it is no longer known, and that infrastructure projects are usually non-profitable, that the way the money doesn't give, we know well. Personally, however, I would prefer my money to be invested by the Sejm's Chancellery for profitable private projects, not the Central Communication Port, a dream project by Prime Minister Morawiecki. This way, you just want to raise money for state investments that you don't have. The initial deposit itself, calculated according to the lowest national one, is already billions of zlotys. When we count the employee's contribution, the employer's contribution, the annual payment, that's what you're going to make at least a dozen billion a year to invest. If you don't have the money, don't take the money. You're saying you want to do something, and how am I supposed to know how this money's gonna be invested and whether there's any left over or you're just gonna take over? And then you say, "Well, it didn't work out. Well, it didn't work out. [[I do.]] We want to discuss the future when it comes to citizens' pensions. The government's policy so far has only led to the fact that these pensions are starving. But I don't think and we don't think that this project, which was submitted in this form, which eventually came out of the government after two years of work, will change anything in this regard. You just want to raise extra money for state investment projects that you don't have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u155	Thank you, Member. Mr. Kristian Jarubas and Mr. Ireneusz Gaina made their views known in writing. I invite Mr Richard Petru, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After PiS has reduced retirement age, Poles, especially Poles, are waiting for starvation pensions. You have, as I see it, full of consciousness. That's point one. Secondly, in the whole civilized world, there is, apart from the public part of the state, a capital part where people put money in individual accounts, investing it in stocks, bonds. This is the pension system in all... most of the developed countries of Europe and the world. Unfortunately, in the previous parliament, the retirement part was killed in respect of this capital part, and that is what I have a huge grudge against the Civic Platform, but also to you because you did nothing to stop it. But I see that the prime minister is a banker who knows about capital markets and has returned to the idea that Poles apart from what they save in the public system, I mean, I'm sorry, what the public system promises them, must also have part of the pension from the private capital pension system. I would also like to say that, going to the elections, during the modern election campaign then, I proposed a similar solution, which is now proposed by Prime Minister Morawiecki. However, I have some fundamental reservations. In principle, it is important to promote voluntary additional savings - voluntary, i.e. according to the decision of workers, employers or individuals. Note that this program, which you are creating, does not include people who work alone. It's just for really big workplaces. Let us be aware that this solution, which has been proposed, means that the employer is forced to pay a contribution for the employee, and it is only the employee who can decide whether or not he will contribute in this plan. But what if the employer doesn't have the money? What if it has a negative margin or a loss? [[There's a project.]] I understand, but if there's no money, there's nothing to understand. And now, here's the solution that I can give you, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. I know that the trade unions that are your arm aren't gonna support that, but it's the only reasonable solution for an employer to be able to finance a contribution. This is the first very important point - not to overly burden employers. Point two. You remember Jack Rostowski, the finance minister who jumped the OFE here. What were his arguments that convinced the entire House to take our savings? That is, the fact that the State was charging money into this system, and therefore the State has the right to choose it. The idea of paying for this pension from the State Treasury may be attractive to future pensioners, but it is dangerous, because one day, when there is no money, another Jacek Rostowski will come and say again: "We are short of money in the register, we will take away from the occupational pension schemes. I believe that, from the point of view of the cleanliness of the system, this solution should be withdrawn, which says that this country is to pay for the pension this kind of encouraging part of the contribution. And the third thing, the most important thing, is what the funds will invest in. The idea that open pension funds invest exclusively in shares is sick and frivolous. It's very dangerous. The stock is fluctuating. All over the world, long-term savings are usually in bonds, especially in recent years before retirement. Here, the fund's investment policy is critical. Let's see how this draft comes out of the Parliamentary Committee. It cannot be that the State suggests in which investments these funds can invest. You're running out of money to invest. You know very well that the scale of your expenses is now extremely great. The next promises are uncharted. I'm not talking about the Warsaw Metro, I'm talking about the normal investments that you are proposing at this moment, the big investment projects. There's a natural incentive. I remember that there was such an eseldian minister of privatisation of his time, Mr Kaczmarek, who also wanted to put public money of pensioners into this type of investment. What's the key? Pension funds must have a normal investment policy, and stocks, and bonds, and not only in Poland, but in the world, so that there is no risk of what we have now, that the Polish stock market is depressing when other exchanges in the world are doing well. Why is it depressing? Because the release of funds from OFE causes a fall in prices on the stock exchange, and judicial uncertainty, constitutional uncertainty, causes that few people want to enter Poland. In conclusion, these three elements seem critical to me. Firstly, so that it does not burden employers too much - I propose that these contributions be paid from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Secondly, I propose to take out this... means, do not trigger subsidies from the State Treasury, because it gives rise to temptation that other politicians will come one day and put their hands on it, and Poles do not trust private pension systems at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third thing, the last thing, is what the funds are going to invest in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u157	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. There's no envoy, is there? [[Because it's all too soon, Marshal.]] Yeah, well, it's his loss. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To deal with employee capital plans, you have to have credibility. We as the Civic Platform said twice in the last year, when we prepared two specific projects that were submitted to the marshal's staff. One project is a pension without a PIT. We wanted to unettify pensions, release them from PIT, so that people who are interested in taking up a job in retirement would have more income. What happened? This project, Mr. Marshal, has been frozen since November. We appeal to Marshal Kuchciński to direct this project to first reading. Let's talk about making pensioners who want to make money better here and now. The second point is the issue of incentives that must be created - and this project too - we have encouraged pensioners to continue to work so that there is no situation that any financial incentives will not be created. This project has also been notified by us. What's the most important thing today? We are talking about Poland here and now, Poland 2018. Older people need to be encouraged to delay their retirement, the income of Polish pensioners needs to be increased, and workers must be encouraged to take up their job while receiving benefits. What have you led to in the last year? You have led half a million qualified workers, Polish and Polish, to retire due to their reduced age. Companies don't have hands to work. Every third company in Poland claims that it cannot develop because it cannot find suitable employees. No one-time supplement, no sweetener you want to create for campaign needs, 500+, will replace [[♪ The bell ♪]] serious discussions, discussions about the ageing of Polish society and the preparation of systemic solutions to which the Civic Platform encourages and presents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question and I would also like to make a few comments here, because there are issues related to OFE in the discussion. The first hit in OFE was the statutory changes introduced by Prime Minister Miller and SLD, when the law was amended in such a way that it would be more beneficial for shareholders and definitely less beneficial for future pensioners. The second hit in the OFE was the acquisition of funds by the state budget during the Platform's governments, a significant amount of funds. And indeed, if these pension systems of different types, financial, are not credible, they will not be willing to participate in them. My question is this: If this is a system to help increase the future income of pensioners, why is it not represented by the Minister of Labour, why will it not be piloted by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs? That is the main objective of this action. If the aim is only to obtain savings in order to be able to direct them towards investments, then I understand that the Ministry of Finance is running this project, and that is the main purpose. We simply need to be clear about the real purpose of this law. I repeat once again, the fundamental issue is credibility. Why are occupational pension schemes an undertaking that has not been fully successful? Because it's the workers who can't afford it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to pay the basic contribution. The employee just doesn't have much income in the majority. This average number of people employed is unable to provide future sources of income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Although over 2 years of public consultation on employee capital plans has been ongoing, the proposed proposal contains provisions that have not been consulted and significantly change previous regulations. Why has the current version of the law adopted by the government and passed to the Sejm not been discussed in the Council of Social Dialogue? The provisions introduced significantly change the draft law. It looks like the government's trying to fool employers. And so on. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133 was added on the date of entry into force of the Act, which was not in previous versions and which significantly changes the purpose of creating occupational pension schemes before the entry into force of the PPK. This provision will require companies that do not create occupational pension schemes by the date of entry into force of this Act to create employee capital plans, and let us remember that occupational pension schemes are more beneficial to the employee than employee capital plans. In this case, in the article. 50 cost savings in the PPK have been reduced by extending the catalogue of costs charged to the fund of the defined date in terms of the cost of the transfer agent. These are changes added at the last minute to the detriment of future pensioners. Such a procedure reduces confidence in the project of employee capital plans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u163	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are talking about good solutions for employees for setting up an employee capital plan. And here comes the red light that you're doing some national fundraiser again from employees' accounts, employers' and employees' accounts. The government announces subsidies to the staff capital plan from the State budget. In fact, subsidies will come from the Labour Fund, which is created mainly from employers' contributions. Let us remind you that income of the Labour Fund in 2017 is almost PLN 11.5 billion. Of this amount 93% came from contributions paid by employers. This means that in practice employers will finance state subsidies to PPK. The government doesn't give anything from the state budget. In that case, what kind of facilities do you propose for your employees? What facilitations does the government have for employers? Because let's be aware that the employer will pay the PPK twice. Once - the contribution resulting from the act, and the second time - indirectly, by the Labour Fund. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that you will slaughter the hen that lays the golden eggs - these are the employers - and then take over the funds that the workers have raised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u165	Thank you. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The security of investment is the basis of this programme. Ladies and gentlemen, if the security of investment is not guaranteed, the savings of potential future pensioners will not be multiplied. How are they to be multiplied if employees' capital plans are specifically governed by investment policy? It is theoretically said that this defined date fund must be allocated in such a way as to aim to achieve the safety, efficiency of investments, taking into account the principles of reducing investment risk. Ladies and gentlemen, further provisions in the following articles: 40% this is the minimum share that must be invested in WIG20. What's a WIG20? Orlen, PGE, PGNiG, PZU, Tauron, JSW, BZ WBK etc. Currently, under this index, there are already around 15% they have Orlen and PKO, which is 30% of what is to be invested, of course it can already be invested by these companies. Now let's remember some wonderful ideas. The Central Communication Port was summoned. Or maybe I'm gonna have to rust off a keel that's already rusted or drones? After all, today, during the election campaign, we see exactly: wherever Prime Minister Morawiecki appears, he has a great idea for an investment. He's gonna stand in the field and say, "There's gonna be a factory here." Ladies and gentlemen, of what? From the money that will be paid by future pensioners to these funds. Art. 141: the so-called funds by 2020 initial fees and annual fees may be spent on representative trade union organisations and representative employers' organisations. And why is that? Is this such a paracorruption to support the project to be satisfied? That's us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By 2020, we'll give money and... Speaking of which, what is this: spent? These are questions that must be answered during the work on this project, so that the Poles really will not be done by you again... Well, I'm not gonna finish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u167	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I agree with the criticisms that were made in the opinions on this bill. And I agree with Mrs Tomaszewska, who said that the credibility of the system is the most important, and this credibility is not seen here. Reliability and security of investment. But regardless of these general statements, I'd like to ask you about the details. The draft law refers to voluntary, but certain professional groups are excluded from the possibility of joining employee capital plans at all. Like a group of self-employed people. The people of this group did not choose this form of work, but were forced by the labour market to self-employed. So let's not pretend. that they themselves chose to operate in the labour market. And now they're out of the question. This is the first case. Two, uniform service. In the case of uniformed services, the situation varies. I'll pay attention to the police. The police are in a very difficult situation. The staff of these services have low salaries and undertake various forms of protest, which, by virtue of their service, are limited, which is understandable. And we here, of course, are also skipping uniforms. Why? And farmers who have starvation pensions? Why don't you just come up with a solution to give them a chance? They're not here, of course. And I'm just asking the Minister, "Why are you doing such selective projects?" Not to mention the employees of the budgetary sphere, which in a few years' time, how this will start to work, and it will probably not work well, perhaps it will be covered by this project. It's just this selectivity. It's very disturbing. Please tell me why. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u169	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental objection to the creators of this project, and in particular to those who have prepared and presented to the Sejm an assessment of the impact of this project. The state here again promises vacations under palm trees, no one knows what, namely that after 40 years savings will be paid 2700 PLN per month or even 5800 PLN per month additionally to the pension. These are things based on completely unrealistic assumptions that the rate of return of money collected from people will be 3.5% above inflation. Well, there's no such rate 3.5%. above inflation, either in government bonds or in various other bonds or in companies that deal with WIG20. These are promises completely sucked out of their fingers, unrealistic, to draw people on things that are, so to speak, completely or very little real. You haven't presented a risk at all. What happens if it's not 3.5% above inflation rate, only 1% Or it's gonna be 0%. ? What happens if the money goes to these state-owned companies, because most of the WIGs are state-owned companies, and they invest in the Central Communication Port, in 1 million electric cars, in some ferrymen, some other government projects that prove to be a financial failure? What happens then? [[Applause]] That money's just gonna go away. These people won't get any pensions, no 2,000. And 5,000. additional pension. You've presented a dishonest, unreliable, unprofessional, fraudulent justification for this project, and that's what I'm most upset about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u171	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u172	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! If it's a good thing or a good thing, then the Prime Minister comes... [[Voice from the room: Matthew.]] ...premier Matthew comes and praises. It's obviously not a good thing. [[Applause]] Why? Because it was not even possible between the President of the NBP of PiS and the Prime Minister of the Government of PiS to agree whether there was a guarantee or no guarantee for employee capital plans. So the President of the National Bank of Poland warns you, warns all Poles: this is not a good thing, it is without a guarantee. They'll own your money. They'll reach into your pockets. Members of the PiS with Prime Minister Matthew. Ladies and gentlemen, 500+ is a promise before the election. How much will the poorest pensioner get? 14 PLN per month, counting for 36 months, and the one to whom you will give this 200 PLN, because not everyone 500+ will receive 5 PLN. Is it worth praising the 500+? This 500+ is once every 3 years, which is 14 PLN per month for the poorest. But the government will feed. 80,000. The bonus for Minister Błaszczak is 1,200 PLN, even though he returned 1,200 PLN more pension. They don't need employee capital programmes. Prime Minister Szydło took the money. She'll get her pension, even though she's paid back, $1,000. zł more. It's a heist and $1,000. zł more per year pension for her. What's her employee plan for? It's because of the staff in the administration that you don't give in the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, you are deceiving Poles. The whole opposition is against it. Those who are ashamed are few in this room, and this project must be ashamed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u173	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that trust in you is a key prerequisite for the success of this project. And as we all know, the Prime Minister only tells the truth when he's wrong. [[Applause]] Besides, I encourage you, there are many examples of lies spoken by Prime Minister Morawiecki on the Internet. I would also draw attention to a very important element. In the government he worked on it for two years, the face of this project, as Mrs Skowrońska said, was Mateusz Morawiecki last year. After all, Mateusz Morawiecki lived his entire life as a banker from how much he had stolen from people's fees, from which he had paid quite a lot of wages. [[Applause]] Today, if we are looking at this project that you have submitted, and we are looking at what should be the key to success, then universality should be the key. If we build a scale, if as many people as possible are included in this program, then there is a prospect that 10, 15 years from now we will succeed. What does Mateusz Morawiecki do? He's cheating. The private sector has to pay from now on, and the public sector has to pay for two years. And in two years, there's gonna be a change in the bill that's gonna be in another three years. This can't be right. That's how they treat the law only frauds, people who want to subdue others. If it's not about the universality of the system, then it has to be about the capital needs of the state, right? As you know, 8.5 million people should enter this program, at least that's what you're predicting. If we count the average pay, $4.5,000. PLN per month, the employee's contribution, on the employer's side, 12 months, we are talking about bringing about 20 billion PLN to such a market. It's giant money. There won't be any choice here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's be honest: the whole will be managed by the investment fund of Polish Development Investments, the Polish Development Fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u175	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u176	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Please explain: Why is such an important project, with significant financial implications, concerning every older Pole, being processed at such a rapid pace? Or are we just rushing to introduce this bill? After all, Poles will work hard, they work like this all their lives. If the elections are won by representatives of the POs, as announced, they will not lose these funds, as in the case of OFE, 150 billion, the previous governments have done. Experienced by such actions of the government, we must care for pensioners, and not only rob them throughout our lives, their pockets, to do something like that later on. Does this give the government a guarantee not to do that anymore, not to rob the nation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u178	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think PiS is right to notice a huge problem. I think this is the biggest economic bomb that's ticking. With regard to the effects of the reduction in the retirement age, which you have decided to do, it will be ticking less. There's a huge disaster ahead of us. I think our compatriots need to understand that there will be either starvation pensions, or the ZUS will go bankrupt, or we need to find a solution. You're looking for a solution, but I wanted to ask on behalf of 3 million self-employed people why at their expense. Why do you decide to milk the self-employed in cold blood? 3 million people who work hard every day. It's not easy being self-employed. We have to settle up. If we have employees, we need to make sure that they get paid, and in the last place, we are self-employed. Why do you decide to introduce a programme that punishes them for entrepreneurship, for taking up challenges, for the fact that they are the ones that are mostly supporting our economy, our economy? Please answer why they will not benefit from the PPK and will pay for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u179	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that this bill is such a specific voice of PiS despair, because you are all aware of the practical bankruptcy and failure of the social security system, especially after the retirement age has been reduced. I'll give you the data. The average amount of pensions of women in 2017 is PLN 1607, men - PLN 2671. So men get, like we said from the Seym Tribune, 40%. more, but what happens already in 2018? The average pension for women is reduced to PLN 1516 and men to PLN 2529, which is a decrease in average pensions by almost 6%. From year to year, this process will deepen and you are aware of it. I have a question so that you can say to Poles: What average benefit will Polka and Pole receive as part of the employee capital plan after 20 years of saving under this program? And second question: What are the actual costs associated with the administration of this system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u181	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question on behalf of the people of my yearbook and the others who volunteered to be rich pensioners. We volunteered to be the first year that entered the OFE. When OFE entered, they said, "You will be rich, you will have your worthy, dignified old age with your own money, money in your account, inherited." It's been years, the tribunal thought it wasn't our money, the Prime Minister said, "What's their money?" This is not taxpayers' money and citizens' money. And there's my first question to the Minister: how long have you been building this program for? Because today, my 1969 yearbook doesn't believe you. Or you from the Platform and the PSL because you've already ruled and divided 150 billion into election parties to survive and enter. Today you're doing another jump... [[It's from the Demographic Reserve Fund.]] Excuse me, Member. ...and tax collection, because otherwise it's called a beautiful fund than an increase in the tax on ZUS, which is ZUS, ladies and gentlemen, is simply bankrupt. From this speaker maybe no one has yet told Poles that ZUS is bankrupt, that today commitments for years are no longer millions, not billions, but trillions. We have to make this clear and not call the new universal collection tax, in the form of a fund, because there were IKE, srike... It doesn't matter anymore, playing names and titles doesn't matter anymore, you have to tell the truth that it is a new tax, a new racket to save the skin of politicians, because for 30 years this problem unfortunately the High House has deepened, and today all Poles are doing a drop to save something that you spend as part of the election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that these are actions that are designed to save the situation of the Social Insurance Institution. Because really the debt that is there, which is kind of classified, are billions of zlotys and unfortunately, but we're all gonna pay for it. This is also the consequence of a reduction in the retirement age, because you can see that those who retire early will have starving pensions, and you're wondering what to do about it. The only thing we think is right is that we're leaning on this problem at all. Because the problem of low pensions is very serious and we do not think that we can allow our pensioners simply to starve. The point is, to introduce such ideas, such projects, you have to be credible, and you are simply not credible. You guys have just shown that you're lying to the whole community, because, for example, the text that the government is gonna start up with capital plans, it's a scam. I'm the one who pays extra as an entrepreneur, because I pay money for the Labour Fund, we all pay for the Labour Fund, and you spend my money and say, "We'll give you money." You're lying. [[Applause]] You need it for the election campaign to go to the people and say, "Look, we're giving away money, pay in there." I agree with Mr Kukiz15 here, this is an additional tax. You've introduced 34 tributes and taxes, you've introduced 35. There's no credibility. And the question is, who's gonna give me the guarantee that this money will come back to me? Where's the money from the Revatization Fund? Where's the money from the crime victims' aid funds? What are you doing? You spend it, but not for the purposes for which it was intended. What happens next time you reach that money to pay yourself another prize? What's gonna happen? Who can guarantee me that this money won't go to Law and Justice? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like you to explain this impact on the public finance sector. You say that in 2021 it will be 3,800 million, but as I understand it, you say here. It's about the one-year pay and the welcome payment. I would like you to tell us how much this will cost the government and local governments as employers, who will pay this contribution for employees. Ofe. Madame, it is not the acquisition of the assets, it is the redemption of the bonds. The bond, Madame, is a debt. The Government of the Civic Platform replaced one debt with another debt and - note - one commitment of the State to another commitment of the State. What's more, you should know perfectly well that a single member of OFE has not lost a penny, [[Applause]] That what he had is on his sub account in the ZUS. The rate of return from the sub-account is higher than from the OFE, moreover, the inheritance rules are identical in open pension funds and in the sub-account in the ZUS. [[Applause]] That's what you need to know. These are basic issues written down in the bill. Ofe Specialist Richard Petru said that all over the world the system has a public, universal, state and capital part. And then he regretted OFE. He did not only add that Poland was such a freak that this capital part, by its nature private, financed the state budget. There are no such countries in the world, they've all backed out of it, some have failed, there are a few former demuds left who don't really know what to do with it. And Mr Petru should finally remember that too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u187	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to quote and quote some information for the singers on the success of a good change, such as Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. Because PiS rules and these 3 years have shown how more and more Poles are burdened. It's not true that the government actually gives, because the government has nothing, the government just steals citizens and pretends to give. But how did the specific costs for the family increase in relation to 2015 in specific cases? Water bills rose by 56%. As far as mortgage payments are concerned, they've increased by 39% - and I don't want to read it out of my mind. Gas bills - 73%. Electricity bills - 188%. Rent for the apartment - about 36%. Internet bills - 35% etc., etc. Today you're putting in a 35th raise and pretending to be just working for the families. You are simply stealing from the citizens, and it would really be necessary to consider whether or not enough of the various lying hypotheses that the Prime Minister is common to us, because I suppose he does not realize what he is saying. Unless he's such a hypocrite that he knows what he's talking about and he's just lying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u189	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Well, vacations didn't give much, and nature, and madness lasts for the best. Unfortunately, what is sad is also people who are excellent and noble, whom I respect very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get crazy. This project... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll get right to the question. I'll make it. ...is not a rescue program or a robbery program. This is an aid project. He's got some serious flaws. We don't get carried away with it, but we don't hide it. Minister, question. [[They help each other.]] Of course. The division is simple, ladies and gentlemen. In a simple way, in order not to hurt anyone, we defend the weaker ones above all, you defend the stronger ones there. It's clear. [[Paulina Hennig-Kloska: Ha, ha, ha!]] You can laugh at it, yeah, yeah, yeah, because the money's here. The employee is always weaker than the one who gives him the job. Simple? But in this discussion... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know you're in pain. I'm almost done. Easy, easy, easy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth. Here the opposition spoke about it, the excellent Ewa Tomaszewska spoke about it. That's 100%. reliability. God forbid these programs are like her. But the question is actually about these self-employed trash can deals, because this asymmetry... This is where Mr Pudłowski signs himself completely, but let us just discuss it. I am convinced that this project will come out of the Sejm another, better or less worse. But why is it just disdainful? And the question at the end, ending, is that true, because all the time I hear that early retirement and early age are mandatory. Is that true or not? Minister, that's the crazy thing to do. How many Poles come back to work because they don't want a lower pension? Poles are better, wiser than you think. It's an offer, not an obligation. On the other hand, we face these challenges. Maybe inefficiently, maybe imperfectly. Safety is important, too, right, so it's not so ecie-pety, it's at the end of GetBack. There you go, let's talk about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] After vacation, maybe it's a little better, maybe we can do better. I encourage you, and that's what I'm asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u191	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give my vote to the Minister, five minutes' rest. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 02 hours 15 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! There were a lot of questions, a lot of comments and opinions. It seems to us that some of these opinions or concerns of the State are not entirely justified, because very often the responses to such concerns that have been expressed on your part are already included in the project. For example, there was a question of what was going to happen, whether, as for a company that would have problems, these contributions also had to be paid. It's been suggested to take this into account. These kinds of things are already included in the project. There were questions about micro-entrepreneurs. On the one hand, the question was why someone who runs a single-person company must also create a PPK. The project also makes it clear that only from 9 people employed, the company is obliged to create PPK. On the other hand, there were contradictory arguments why single-person employment, single-person entrepreneurs are not included in the PPK. These requests were discussed during various work. It was assumed that there was no relationship between an employee and an employer in a single company and additional relief... i.e. One-person operators also receive benefits from the introduction of PPK, as they will be able to increase tax write-offs related to IKZE from 1,2% up to 1.8% , and so they are generally also involved in this. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But this is another matter. You're ruling them out of this program.]] I assume that all kinds of concerns or questions will be resolved - as Mr Cymanski said - in committee work, where we will be able to focus on all kinds of details. The issue was also raised here - I think you spoke about it - the security of investment. There was a presumption whether there was an allegation or whether there was a concern that the state companies would select the state management funds of the PPK. This is not entirely true, because the provision has been made that the board or decision-making body of the company which will decide on the selection of the PPK must do so in agreement - not in consultation but in agreement - with trade unions or employees' representatives, and thus generally in agreement with the PPK participants. So it's not going to be a one-sided decision of the board. As far as investment security is concerned, we believe that it is also taken into account. We can talk about details while working in the subcommittee, we are very open to it, as well as to all other comments, but we think that security buffers are provided. Please note that the government has also launched a second project to strengthen the supervision of financial institutions. This is a comprehensive element of the whole reform, as surveillance must also be strengthened in order, among other things. Employee capital plans were very heavily supervised. It was also pointed out whether there was much concern from the State about companies, about workers, that different situations were not fully taken into account, that one group was harmed and the other was not. I would like to point out that, in the framework of the Social Dialogue Council, representatives of all employers and almost all trade unions outside the OPZZ expressed a positive opinion on this project. So nobody cheats anybody here, nobody steals anybody's money. Please note that in a conversation between the government and all representatives within the Social Dialogue Council, i.e. employers and employees, it was all agreed and refined, so it is difficult to say that the government is trying to deceive someone or take money or that solutions are not entirely fair. You are questioning the assessment of representatives of employers and employees, that is, trade unions, who have expressed a positive opinion on this project. One more corrigendum. At the very beginning, she said that the PPK Act was so written that the conditions for participation fulfilled only one TFI. And there was a specific name here. I would like to reassure you that this is not the case. Many financial institutions meet these conditions. Check it out, it's available. Please also note that PTE, i.e. the institutions that operated OFE, are also allowed and meet the conditions. Insurance undertakings are also admitted and meet the conditions. As far as investment fund associations are concerned, it seems to us that 64 institutions of more than 20 institutions quietly meet the requirements of running the PPK. So there may be some mistake or oversight from the Member, but not only does this one company meet the requirements for running the PPK. That would be absurd. It's either bad will, malice on your part, or misreading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I can't be mean, Minister, about finance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u193	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act on Employee Capital Plans in my opinion is an underdeveloped project. We already know that the applicants themselves collided with the wall - the project was due to enter into force in January this year. As far as the greatest doubts arise in the review of the law, I would like to ask how you intend to deal with the problem of low savings and income gaps between working life and retirement. A huge problem can also be the low investment rate and the low development of the local capital market. Do the proposed solutions meet the objectives of solving these problems? The effectiveness of the law is a serious issue. In my view, there is no guarantee that employers will be relieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans (Print No 2811). The need for changes is due to the need to implement the strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers for responsible development. One of the important instruments for implementing the SOR is the Capital Building Programme (PBK) consisting in building savings for Poles. PBK performs strategic functions in the field of economic reconstruction of the country and increases the financial security of citizens and stability of the public finance system. In addition, the implementation of the programme will have a positive impact on the development of the local capital market and will increase the investment potential of the country. The contested law concerns the implementation of an effective and voluntary austerity scheme complementing the current pension system. Through the introduction of employee capital plans (PPK) outlined in the SOR, the Capital Construction Programme will have functional opportunities to create investment policies conducive to the development of the local capital market, re-burerocratise pension schemes and provide easy access to information about programmes for participants. At the same time, building a stable long-term, universal and voluntary pension system based on the third pillar savings schemes in the business sector will increase the wealth and financial security of Poles during the retirement period. In addition, the developed capital market is an essential element for building a strong basis for economic development, which provides an opportunity to increase individual income and thus fosters GDP growth. There is also a proportionate relationship between the country's large economic potential and a stable pension system with high pension benefits. The proposed bill will promote this direction of desired change. The argument behind the introduction of PPK is the fact that 3/4 Poles do not save money for old age. Therefore, the problem of not saving for pension purposes is important in relation to the increasing gap between remuneration and the projected amount of pension benefits from the general pension security system. In order to combat poverty and to maintain the real value of pension benefits, it is therefore necessary to ensure diversification of sources of income financing during the retirement period. The awareness of demographic processes also requires a careful look at the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund. I will remind you here the forecast of EUROPOP 2013. It says that in 2060, compared to 2015, the total population will decrease by 5.4 million people (13.9% decrease). ), the population of pre-production age will decrease by 1.7 million people (a decrease of 24.8% ), the working age population will decrease by 8.0 million people (down 33.3%) After-production population will increase by 4.4 million people (an increase of 58.0% ). In order to stabilise the general pension system and maintain the current level of protection of life needs after retirement age, efforts should be made to increase labour productivity by improving the organisation and efficiency of the economy, implementing innovative technologies within Industry 4.0 and providing additional savings in PPK, as well as developing technologically advanced financial markets. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government's draft law on employee capital plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u196	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws (Print No 2809). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws, print no. 2809. This is a project, you can say, revolutionary. It does one very important thing: photos of individuals' income tax taxpayers' obligation to make tax returns on their own. Thus, there is a significant simplification of the functioning of tax law. From now on, any person who wishes to benefit from the procedure set out in this draft will be able, you can say, ultimately not submit a PIT, to use the mechanism, the procedure which is presented, designed in the act in such a way that the tax office will fill out an annual statement for the taxpayer and thus the taxpayer will no longer have to do anything. Thus, it is really important to improve the functioning of the tax administration system, the personal income tax system. This is important - I would like to stress - that this does not mean that other ways of making tax returns will cease to exist. Any person who wishes to make a correction, fill in a paper form, use all existing means of submitting an annual statement electronically will still be able to do so. There is, you can say, the possibility of extending this by the additional possibility of not submitting a tax return. The project will, of course, also reduce the cost of collecting personal income tax. As we know, the greatest cost for the tax administration is the need to save electronic statements in a paper version. So we're assuming that some of the statements that are being filed in paper today will no longer be filed. As I said, the project assumes that these statements will automatically be filled out by the tax authorities, thanks to the fact that the tax administration will have data on taxpayers. These figures are, of course, based on statements submitted by employers by the Social Insurance Institution on income for the previous year. Tax returns will be prepared for all taxpayers. Anyone will be able to decide if they want to use it. They will be available from 15 February to 30 April of the following year after tax year and KAS, i.e. the National Tax Administration, will provide tax returns to taxpayers, based on information from payers, data provided by payers in the last year's statement, i.e. a child relief, an entry for a public benefit organisation, which they gave 1% last year. , and the data contained in the records of the head of KAS, such as the amount of advance payments for personal income tax paid during the tax year, and other registers, e.g. ZUS register for paid contributions or PESEL - for children's benefits. So, in fact, this will allow the taxpayer not to give an annual statement in any way, and the tax office, based on the information available, will fill it out in an optimal way for the citizen. There is one important thing - it is worth remembering - that this possibility is offered, and will naturally concern them, the clearing taxpayers individually, together with the spouse, in a way also intended for single parents. The tax return prepared by KAS will be made available to taxpayers in electronic form in the application on the tax portal. This portal is a standard procedure for filling in a yearly statement, i.e., it can be said that before automatic confirmation on the last day on which the statement is due, the taxpayer will be able to correct it, it will be able to make changes there, for example, due to the fact that it wants to make changes in the reliefs or to change the organisation it wants to transfer 1%. The tax return prepared by KAS will be verifiable, accepted without change. In case of PIT-37 statements, PIT-38 doesn't have to do anything. Then, at the end of the deadline, this statement will be automatically accepted. They can be modified or rejected and settled on their own, thanks to this whole range of ways that are available. It will also, of course, be possible to verify and update the account number reported to the tax office for the refund of the overpayment. In the case of settlements for 2018, the statements will be available to taxpayers, which is what we are really talking about, which should already work in the context of settlements for 2018, i.e. at the beginning of 2019. In the beginning, what we are proposing will be offered for the reasons that, so to speak, IT non-business natural persons making a statement on the PIT-37 form, and taxpayers obtaining income from cash capital, proceeds from the sale of shares, making a statement on the PIT-38 form. And in the following year, when we settle for 2019, it will of course be at the beginning of 2020, also tax returns will be able to be submitted by individuals conducting non-agricultural economic activities, making a statement on forms PIT-36L and PIT-28. So in fact, in the first year, this system will be available mainly to non-business individuals, but in the following year this functionality will be available more widely. The project provides for a reduction of the deadline for repayment of the excess payment resulting from the submission of the taxpayer's statement of income tax on individuals from 3 months to 45 days, provided that the above. the statement shall be made by electronic means. There is, you can say, a certain incentive that if we give a statement in an electronic version, this overpayment will be refunded faster. This is also important for the efficiency of the tax administration. The draft also introduces provisions aimed at protecting the taxpayer if the taxpayer accepts a misconception prepared by the tax authority. Then, of course, there is no criminal interest. The fault of the body removes liability from the taxpayer. A mechanism has been put in place to effectively inform the taxpayer of the tax return to be paid. We also had a discussion at the consultation stage, which will happen if the taxpayer wants to use this method of lodging, so, let's say, he won't do anything. It will turn out that he will have to pay some small tax resulting from the fact that the advances do not cover the sum of the tax liability, will pass the deadline for the tax return at the end of April and therefore there will be a question of what if the taxpayer did not see, looked, did not care, used this method of tax return, so he does not even know how much tax to pay. And here we have introduced a mechanism that assumes that the tax office has a duty to inform the taxpayer of the amount of the tax liability. We will use all available methods, i.e. If the taxpayer leaves a phone number, an e-mail, then of course we will use this channel to provide information. If not, it will be information in the letter version, i.e. communication in a traditional way. Introduction the solutions relate primarily to a change in the time limit for the submission of tax returns, i.e. between 15 February and the end of April, by shortening the deadline for the transmission of information by taxpayers to the tax office chief - all payers will be required to send information to the tax office chief by the end of January of the year following the tax year, so that this mechanism can act as soon as possible - the obligation for taxable persons to transmit information by electronic means only - thus resolving the problem of annual testimony will be applicable - and changing the way in which advances are levied on personal income tax. This change concerns the amount of advances collected during the month in which the taxable person's income from the beginning of the year at the workplace in question exceeded the upper limit of the range, i.e. the transition between the first and second thresholds. According to the project, during the month of overrun, the advance will be charged at two rates of 18% and 32%. This is an improvement, of course, directly related to this project. In general, this is sometimes the case for a small proportion of taxpayers, which is covered by the second scale, that the current legal provisions do not exactly specify, so to speak, how much is there in the month of transition to payment of the advance. And so that there is no discrepancy between the final amount of tax to be paid and advances, here we are introducing this small modification so that the amounts paid after the end of the year are as close as possible to those amounts fixed, the sum of the advances collected during the tax year. So thank you very much and encourage you to support the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u198	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Club supports the changes proposed by the government in the personal income tax collection scheme proposed in print No 2809 and proposes that this project be transferred to the Public Finance Commission for further work. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the proposed amendments, the costs of the tax system will be reduced and the proposed and announced in the Law and Justice Programme will be supported by taxpayers in the submission of tax returns on personal income tax by the National Tax Administration. The tax return prepared by the National Tax Administration will be available to all tax payers individually, together with their spouses, and in the way provided for single parents. When making a statement, the National Tax Administration will use a database of information on the taxpayer, created on the basis of inter alia. information received from payers, from last year's PIT statement, which contains information on whether the taxable person benefits from child relief for which public benefit organisation the taxable person has transferred 1% the tax due, and the information received from the Social Security Office in respect of the social and health contributions paid. The taxpayer will have an insight into the statement prepared by the National Tax Administration. He will be able to check his tax return and, in the absence of comments, accept it. It will be able to update the data and supplement them with those which the National Tax Administration did not have, e.g. the data arising from the fact that the taxable person is engaged in a business activity or made in a tax year a deduction of the donation. Where the taxpayer has no comments on the statement drawn up by the National Tax Administration, this statement shall be accepted automatically on expiry of the time limit for the submission of the annual statement. The taxpayer may also reject the statement prepared by the National Tax Administration and account for himself. Therefore, the form of the tax return is ultimately decided by the taxpayer himself. The National Tax Administration will provide a prepared tax return from 15 February to 30 April of the year following the tax year. Taxpayers will have unlimited access to these statements and to official confirmation of receipt of the statement to the tax authority. The government estimates that around 25% of the tax returns will be able to benefit from support for the preparation of tax returns. clearing individual taxpayers and not benefiting from any relief and settlement. These taxpayers won't have to do anything but check the data. Also 25% clearing taxpayers who are jointly with their spouses and who do not benefit from any reductions and deductions will be able to benefit from this scheme. The government leaves the taxpayer the opportunity to testify in the past form, namely paper or electronic form. But it should be stressed that the new system proposed by the Government of Law and Justice is much more cost-effective for both the taxpayer and the tax system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I propose that this bill be addressed to work in the Committee on Public Finances. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u200	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No 2809. The draft amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws provides for further simplifications related to the settlement of PIT tax returns. The comprehensive computerization of the tax administration began the government of PO-PSL, introducing the first stage, i.e. possibility to submit tax returns via the Internet using free e-declarations application. The use of the declaration made available on the website of the Ministry of Finance did not entail the need to have a qualified electronic signature as it was before. Only data from the accounts of the previous year were needed for verification. Already in 2015, we introduced pre-filled accounts by the tax authorities, which could be accepted by the taxpayer. Work continued in the Ministry of Finance to develop this solution, which ended successfully. This is included in the processed project. This is a good example of the continuation of the actions launched by the previous government, and it is worth admitting that. I would like to draw attention to the details of this solution, the contested bill. The National Tax Administration will prepare a completed annual tax return without any need for the taxpayer to submit any application. It will be based on information from payers, data provided by the taxpayer in a statement for the previous year - concerning e.g. Children's benefits or the number of a public benefit organisation to which the taxpayer gave 1% last year tax - data contained in the registers of the Head of National Tax Administration, such as the amount of income tax advances paid and other state registers, e.g. ZUS. The National Tax Administration will prepare tax returns for all taxpayers, which will be available from 15 February of the year following the tax year until 30 April, in an electronic version, in the application available on the Tax Portal. At the first stage of the 2018 settlement, statements will be available to taxable persons who are not engaged in a business, making a tax return on the form of PIT-37, and taxable persons who obtain income from cash capital, making a tax return on the form PIT-38. At the next stage, in the following financial year, 2019, tax returns will also be available to taxpayers of natural persons engaged in non-agricultural business, making tax returns on the form PIT-36, PIT-36L or PIT-28. It is estimated that close to 50% clearing taxpayers who are individually and who do not benefit from any reductions and deductions will not have to carry out any activities in order to settle with the personal income tax payer for the previous year. Of course, it's... This group includes clearing persons together with spouses who also do not benefit from any reductions and deductions. The tax return prepared by the National Tax Administration can be used by the taxpayer in a way that he chooses. Namely, he can verify them and accept them without changes. In the case of PIT-37 and PIT-38 statements, no action may be taken. They will then be automatically accepted at the end of the deadline for the submission of annual statements. This is very convenient for many taxpayers who are delaying until the end, and in this case they will not necessarily have to go to tax offices. It can also modify or supplement data that the National Tax Administration does not have and then accept the statement. He can ultimately reject them and account for himself. The benefits of these solutions are obvious. This is not only a cost saving for the entire billing or tax collection process, but above all a simplification and simplification for taxpayers, pensioners and pensioners. I think it's very important. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the bill and accepts its referral to further Parliamentary work, while expressing its satisfaction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the work started during our governments continues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda - but I do not see him in the plenary room - from the Kukiz club15. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u203	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit a position concerning a government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, print No 2809. The proposed project aims to introduce a further step in simplifying the way in which tax returns are submitted. A new service would be added to the working methods: paper and electronic, through the e-Report system, consisting in the fulfilment of the tax return by the National Tax Administration without any need for the taxpayer to submit any application. This solution is intended to facilitate the tax return process and to allow for the optimum burden on citizens. There is no doubt that this is the right direction. According to the assumptions of the submitted project, KAS will fill out tax returns for tax payers based on information from payers, data provided by the taxpayer in the tax return for the previous year (e.g. relief for children, the number of the public benefit organisation KRS, which he gave 1% last year the tax due) and the data contained in the records of the head of the KAS (e.g. the amount of advance payments to PITs) and other state registers. Importantly, the taxpayer will be able to choose whether to take advantage of the tax return prepared by the KAS, modify or supplement the data or reject the statement and settle itself. It is also worth noting that the modern shortening of the deadline for the refund of overpayments in personal income tax is called for. The Modern Posel Club submitted a bill last year indicating precisely the purpose of shortening the deadline for repayment of overpayment in personal income tax. In this case, in this law, this deadline is reduced from 3 months to 45 days, which is to be welcomed. On the other hand, there is considerable controversy among entrepreneurs about the deadline for the payment of contributions by payers by the end of January. In most entities, the beginning of the year is sometimes particularly increased administrative work and a period of numerous reporting-tax obligations. Such upsizing of work in one month will certainly have additional financial consequences for the workplace. In addition, the employer's account of hundreds and even thousands of employees may prove to be physically impossible in such a short period of time. During the work, we will therefore be calling for this deadline to be extended - I know that such employers' proposals were - by 15 February - by the middle of the next month. Despite these reservations, Members of the Committee and Members of the Modern Economy will vote in favour of referring the bill submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, print No 2809. In general, it must be said that the project proposes to continue the electronicisation of annual tax accounts in personal income tax, leaving the existing forms of billing, paper and online, in which the taxpayer settles itself. And you have to say it's a good project. So far, fiscal services have prepared annual accounts for pensioners and pensioners, after all, they already exist. Last year, we also expanded this so that pensioners and pensioners can provide information about the disposal of 1% to public benefit organisations. Tax officials will also take this into account in these accounts. The current proposal proposes that the National Tax Administration take over this annual settlement also in the case of other taxpayers. The tax return prepared by KAS will be made available to taxpayers in an electronic version, in an application available on the tax portal from 15 February. The proposal proposes that the possibility of annual income tax settlement for individuals should include taxpayers who account for themselves, together with their spouse, or single parents. This will apply to settlements for the current year, i.e. 2018. On the other hand, those who are engaged in business activities will be able to benefit from this form of settlement, substitute settlement, in the accounts for the following year, i.e. 2019. And here, when it comes to the date of the deposition, it will be the date from 15 February to 30 April. After seeing this form of settlement prepared by KAS, the taxpayer can check and accept this calculation without changes, it can also make some changes, so make amendments, pay attention to certain discounts or revenue costs, supplement these data as I said, and it can also reject or settle in another way available. Even if the taxable person does not accept the accounts submitted, they will be treated as accepted and will be considered as a submitted annual settlement after 30 April. As far as the creation or fulfilment of this tax statement by the National Tax Administration is concerned, it must be said that here information is used that is already in the databases, e.g. in the registers of the head of the National Tax Administration, for example from tax statements which were submitted for the previous year, but also can be used so-called. external registers, i.e. the registers of the Ministry of Digitalization, as regards the register of PESEL - it will be possible to use this, among others. in relief for children, as well as from the Social Insurance Institution data. At the tax office itself, this will certainly reduce the costs of both preparing and checking the data provided on paper, but it will also be an excellent relief and meeting the expectations of taxpayers. In conclusion, the project involves organisational and technical solutions... [[♪ The bell ♪]] - in a time of widespread computerisation, it cannot be imagined that it could be different - and it goes in the right direction, while leaving the current form of settlement. Of course, there will be costs, but they are planned and distributed over the years of implementation. The parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supports this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u206	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. You are starting Mirosław Pampuch, a modern club. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u207	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about a 45-day payback, because in the article. 77 The tax administration generally has a 30-day, 3-month, 2-month period and is difficult to find in the 45-day period. Therefore, I would ask for a reason why 45 days. Of course, I was very pleased to welcome the reduction of the deadline for repayment of the overpayment from 3 months to 45 days, but I believe that there is no need to specially surprise and introduce into the Tax Order a new deadline, different from other time limits for repayment of overpayments resulting from these provisions. So, please... Of course, the Modern Parliamentary Club will make an appropriate amendment and I would ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u208	Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I wanted to say that I really like this project. In general, I think that there are not enough projects in our Seym that simplify our lives, our citizens, and this one certainly belongs to them. Unfortunately, these projects are not enough and we would like to say: after 3 years you finally use the functionalities that have been in the system for a long time, and the information you have is also in the system for a long time, so that I am glad that this is happening. On the other hand, I regret to say - I have just said this - that you are dividing citizens into better and worse. Just now, when we were discussing the PPK, you said that the self-employed would not really be subject to the PPK. And now you're condemning them to the second category, i.e. that they will be able to use the automation of the accounts with the fiscus in a year's time. Why? All the information you have about citizens, about individuals, you also have about self-employed people. You have even more information because of the single file you require. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer this question and consider this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that, as of next year, self-employed people also have the opportunity to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u210	And the last question at this point will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A man is a man of error. Sometimes we make mistakes, just like officials make mistakes. I wanted to ask if, in a situation in which it turns out that as a result of an oversight or error, the declaration will be wrongly filled, the taxpayer will not be able to come to this and will not correct this error, and after some time it will turn out that the tax has actually been wrongly charged, that it was to be paid more, etc., and the fault for this oversight will be on the office's side... Will the question to the Minister then assume responsibility for any oversight? 'Cause that kind of oversight can happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u212	I would ask you to answer this question and to the earlier questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for the questions. Maybe I'll start at the end. With regard to the actions that may be carried out, the statement wrongly filled out by the tax office, in a natural way - there is an appropriate provision - all the consequences that may result from the error of the tax administration - are taking on the tax administration, i.e. there are no consequences for taxpayers. I am aware that sometimes there may be mistakes, and the point is that there should be no risk to the citizens. The first question concerned the date of return. The standard deadline for reimbursement of PIT overpayment, personal tax, is defined as 3 months. Of course, they are here, and the honourable Member has reminded us of this, other deadlines for other taxes, such as VAT. Indeed, the time limits for those taxes are different and there is only one 3-month time limit in the case of personal tax. The proposal that has been adopted in this draft law is such as to speed up the reimbursement of the overpaid tax, i.e. reduce this deadline by half - from 3 months to 45 days for those taxable persons who have completed the tax in electronic form. This is an incentive to apply this channel of taxation. Therefore, we would prefer to recommend to you that preference be introduced just so that some taxpayers do not have to wait three months. So we're creating a second solution. And the question is whether this is the first solution, whether it is used for the first time. Of course, a number of simplification measures have already been implemented. We had this electronic channel, which actually required a certain statement already last year. We tested this and it turned out that this is not a very attractive solution. We can say that we also learn what taxpayers want to apply. As far as business is concerned, it is worth remembering that we were limited only by issues related to the exchange of data with ZUS. It's just that at that time, to settle for 2018, now until the end of the year... Unfortunately - this is the result of our dialogue with the Social Insurance Institution - it will not be possible to communicate this necessary information about contributions so quickly, so that this solution for business people will only be possible next year, which is simply due to technical problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u214	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, contained in print No 2809, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market (Print No 2812). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and investor protection in the financial market aims to strengthen the coordination of state policy against developments in the financial market, including the early identification of risks related to its functioning. The project introduces three major changes concerning the supervision of the financial market, financial education of the public and the issuance of certain securities. Firstly, in order to strengthen the supervision of the financial market, the project proposes changes to the organisation and functioning of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission, which will become a state legal entity once the proposed law enters into force. This will increase the financial independence of this office and thus strengthen the supervision of the financial market. UKNF will be able to manage its resources more efficiently and allocate them to statutory tasks such as increasing the frequency of inspections in supervised entities, analysis of reporting data and cooperation with financial market supervisors in other countries. At the same time, it should be stressed that this does not mean full freedom on the part of the authorities to spend these funds, as the budget of the NCF will be approved by the President of the Council of Ministers and sent together with the draft budget law as an annex to the Sejm. In addition, the Act extends the membership of the Financial Supervision Committee by four additional members, including representatives of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Banking Guarantee Fund, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers responsible for coordinating the activities of special services. Additional members of the committee, with the exception of the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, will not take part in the votes because they will only be members with an advisory vote. The extension of the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission will ensure better cooperation between State authorities in the supervision of the proper functioning of the financial market. The provisions of the proposed law also allow for mutual exchange of information, including by law, between the Financial Supervision Commission and the Internal Security Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the National Tax Administration, the Police and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which in turn will allow the identification of possible risks of irregularities that may occur in the financial market. The exchange of information will also allow for coordination of the abovementioned activities. bodies vis-à-vis entities that pose a real threat to financial market participants. In the field of financial education, the bill envisages the creation of a Financial Education Fund, whose main task will be to raise the financial awareness of Poles, including the development of knowledge about investment products offered. In particular, the Fund will develop financial education strategies, organise and support educational projects, organise information campaigns. The Fund will also cooperate with the Ministry of National Education. The proposed legislation will also create a Financial Education Council, which will include, among others, representatives of the Minister responsible for Financial Institutions, the Minister responsible for Education and Education, the President of the National Bank of Poland, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Financial Ombudsman. The Council will be responsible for determining the direction and supervision of the Fund's activities. The source of the financial education fund will be the funds derived from the administrative penalties imposed on financial institutions by the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Ombudsman, as well as certain administrative penalties imposed by the President of the OOKiK and the Audit Supervision Committee, as well as the financial statements and benefits decided by the court. The latest major changes envisaged by the project are the introduction of mandatory dematerialisation of corporate bonds, investment certificates issued by closed investment funds and pledge letters. These financial instruments will be subject to mandatory registration in the CSD's securities deposit under the rules currently in force for public securities and government bonds. The creation of a single central repository of information on the amount of debt issued by individual issuers and the timeliness of its repayment will increase the transparency of the securities issued in Poland, as it will facilitate the access to such information by the Financial Supervision Commission and other competent state authorities, as well as interested investors. The proposed law is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions relating to the financing and organisation of committees, as well as the dematerialisation of securities which will enter into force on 1 January 2019. High Izbo! By asking for the support of the bill submitted, I would like to express my conviction on behalf of the government that its adoption will contribute to improving the supervision of the national financial market and, at the same time, strengthen the protection of the interests of individual investors operating in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u216	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Grzegorz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club... excuse me, Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and investor protection in the financial market, print No 2812. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to change the financing method of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority to provide funding directly from fees paid by supervised financial market entities. The project also aims to ensure better coordination of state policy towards the financial market and early identification of risks related to its functioning, thereby guaranteeing the security of investors, which is to be achieved by extending the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission. The members of the committee will be a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Banking Guarantee Fund, a representative of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and a representative of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers responsible for coordinating the activities of special services. The last three members will only have an advisory vote. The proposed law also establishes a legal framework for the provision of information between KNF and its members and other bodies such as ABW, CBA, KAS, Police and the UOKiK. In addition, the provisions of the Act allow for the exchange of information obtained in connection with the work of the Commission by institutions with their representatives. KNF and the National Bank of Poland will be able to exchange information obtained in the course of their tasks on a reciprocal basis. The proposed solution will also apply to the exchange of information between the KNF and the Bank Guarantee Fund and the Minister responsible for financial institutions, as well as to the transmission of information to the European Central Bank. The membership of the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers in committee is crucial in the context of the planning and implementation of State policy in relation to the financial market and at the same time ensures proper coordination between the various ministers in this area. The bill also provides for the creation of a Financial Education Fund at the National Securities Deposit. The aim of the fund will be to increase the financial awareness of Poles. Its main task will be to promote knowledge of financial markets. The Financial Education Board, consisting of representatives of state institutions having an impact on the development and security of the financial market and education, will be responsible for overseeing the fund and determining its direction. The source of the fund will be financial resources from, inter alia, the administrative penalties imposed by the Commission for Financial Supervision, certain administrative penalties imposed by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Audit Supervision Commission and the Financial Ombudsman, as well as the formations and cash benefits decided by the courts for a national deposit, as well as the funds which have been forfeit by the court. For 2019, the penalty amount imposed by the Financial Supervision Commission is planned to amount to PLN 9 million. The next objective of the proposed amendment is to introduce mandatory dematerialisation of corporate bonds, investment certificates issued by closed investment funds and pledge letters regardless of whether they were the subject of a public offer and whether they are intended to be traded on any trading venue. Another objective is to define a legal framework for the trading of debt instruments in a dematerialised way to ensure better investor protection and more effective supervision of debt instruments put on the market. More security and flexibility for investors are also in favour of the proposed change. The registration system operated by the CSD is the safest system, and registration in this system of all non-public securities will lead to the registration of only the best-prepared entities for this task, i.e. brokerage houses and banks authorised to hold securities accounts and participants in the National Securities Deposit, and not, as yet, entities that are not entitled to hold securities accounts. Currently, both the KNF and the Financial Supervision Authority are financed through the State budget entirely by contributions and charges paid to supervised entities, which means that expenditure is neutral for the budget deficit. Once the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission has been transformed into a State legal person, contributions and fees will be paid directly to that office where the Financial Supervision Authority will be the management body. The extension of the membership of the KNF will ensure better cooperation between state institutions. Financial instruments will be subject to mandatory registration, which will increase the transparency of debt securities issues. In view of the above arguments, the Law and Justice Club supports the draft law and will vote in favour of passing it to [[♪ The bell ♪]] work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Quidquid agis, prudener agas et respice finem. Solon's wisdom for almost 3,000. years reminds us that our actions should be deliberate and that our pursuit of goals should be prudent. But when we ask ourselves why this bill was presented, it is difficult to find answers to it in the explanatory memorandum presented by the government. She can only be guessed. For what do we see in the justification? The justification begins with an enumerative mention of the huge number of laws that this project changes, and we do not find the answer to why it changes them. Let's look at what this bill changes. First of all, the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority is decommissioning. What does he call? New, in a new legal form, the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission. It's a maneuver we've known for 3 years trained by the PiS. I would like to quote one sentence from the explanatory memorandum: It should be stressed that all the staff of the committee's office, in a new legal form, will become employees of the new committee's office under the law. I would like to say that the credibility of the PiS in this respect is zero, because we could multiply the examples that it was not, but here, when we talk about the area of public finances, the simplest, brightest example is the reform of the tax system. Here PiS assured, Minister Banaś personally here, that all employees of the IRS will find a job in the National Tax Administration. And what happened? They didn't. Those who didn't like the PiS didn't find the job. What's the effect? The result is numerous processes and, moreover, processes won by former tax officials, which, of course, exposes the Treasury to certain costs. It is a typical record trained by the PiS: they will come to new places of the Bear. It'll probably be worse than it was. The second thing is funding. You spoke to the Minister and my predecessor about the fact that funding is now to be directly made out of fees, contributions and penalties imposed by the committee. It does not take much imagination or great experience to know that if it is not in the budget corset, only the committee will have the money that will come from the penalties imposed by it, it is the best motivation for the officials of the Financial Supervision Authority to make these penalties numerous and high. After all, in my opinion, I think that not only do I think very bad news for the financial market, very bad news for the entire Polish economy. The third issue, very important, is the programmed in this bill, designed the actual growth of the operation, the functioning of the KNF and the KNF Office. Why would you do that? The impact assessment states that funding has always been neutral with regard to the budget deficit. What does that mean? This means that contributions, fees, penalties in each financial year were higher than the operating costs of the KNF office. And now, if KNF has all the contributions, fees, penalties, that means that this bill actually increases the cost of operation. Another area is to increase the number of stools. It is completely incomprehensible that the number of KNF members needs to be extended to include further representatives of ministries, at a time when as many as three KNF members are representatives of ministers, one is a representative of the National Bank of Poland and one is a representative of the President. Finally, I wanted to return to the question that I put at the very beginning: What's all this for? Partly the answer is simple - new positions, new councils, new, bigger funds, blurred objectives of this new Financial Education Fund, but in fact it seems that the main reason for submitting this bill is from a higher level. The main aim of this project is to create the impression that the current financial supervision law was imperfect and this imperfection was the reason for the recent financial scandals from which PiS cannot explain itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You could quote an old saying about the treatment of pimple powder, if not for the fact that the GetBack scandal is not a pimple, it's not even a venereal disease that occurs in a more acute version of this saying. GetBack is a huge omission. This is not the imperfection of the law, it is the imperfection of the people who applied it. GetBack is the sleazyness of the services that are currently investigating this case. GetBack is a sleazy service that can't explain the reasons for faulty decisions in KNF. GetBack is a sleazy justice system that can't explain a simple case of people who claim they didn't sign any contracts, didn't buy any GetBack bonds, and now they own them. GetBack is more than a zit, and you guys aren't gonna powder it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u220	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. I don't see your MP. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The fact that banking supervision in Poland does not work is a fact. We've had a whole SKOK thing, we've had an Amber Gold thing, now we've got a GetBack thing. All money wasted, unrecovered, cases and causes unsolved, criminals unstoppable, and money from taxpayers' pockets comes out systematically. Will this bill make any difference in financial supervision? Unfortunately, I'm not so sure, because the changes you're proposing are not going to solve the problems that we have. I'm going to show you how the service works and how surveillance works in the case of the last scandal that we're experiencing, where 9,000 have been victimized. Poles and Poles, that's GetBack. Changing the funding style isn't gonna bring anything. All the issues about firing employees will not change anything, because you will simply put your own, not independent, professionally prepared people to work there. Is the creation of the Financial Education Fund needed, ladies and gentlemen? No. What we need today is lessons, education from the first grade of primary school. Instead of two religious lessons, we need at least one lesson financed by the state budget, at least one economic lesson, which will educate from a small Polish and Polish people about the risk of investing in individual instruments, of which the state budget is built, what is the income, what is the income, going from scratch, because when it comes to small children, we will of course start with these basic issues, and not create further funds at the central level. It's not gonna change anything. What does supervision need? What he said: a smooth operation, but not a change of name, not a change of source of funding, because this will not result in anything. Following the last year and a half, the surveillance errors we have had - today there is no one from the Financial Supervision Committee who would comment on this project, it is scandalous - it is obvious that the supervision does not work, the government is trying to implement some changes, and nobody even came here. The acceptance of the prospectus during very large shares, offers on the private market, where supervision most likely knew that there were huge amounts of bonds pushed into Polish private wallets, accepts for a small amount the prospectus, without really taking into account the real risk, washes hands with responsibility for this fact today. Next thing: acceptance of the prospectus during the revision of the statute of limitations, which, as a key change, hung over the company and could lead to a drastic increase in the risk of bonds being taken, bonds bought. Of course, they did, but it really should be the basis for not accepting the prospectus. Today surveillance says, but we don't have that kind of competence, we can't judge that kind of thing. Anonymies, which at the end of 2017, influence KNF, say that GetBack may be a financial pyramid and that there is an irregularity. They did nothing about it, and the key wave of bond sales falls in the first quarter of 2018, i.e. it was possible to protect Polish citizens from their purchase, at least part of it, and the scale of abuse would be smaller. Today, of course, we hear: the anonymous supervision cannot respond. Today we have an investigation and, in fact, in an efficient state of service, they would have taken over GetBack's computer company long ago, they would have taken over the property, because nobody trusts the board of directors there, and they would have just introduced the commission board. What do we have today? We today have such a situation that in the PiS state, bondholders have a problem with obtaining basic information that would give them hope of recovering their money. They have a problem with establishing the list of bondholders who have acquired these instruments, having difficulty establishing the scale of the company's size and obtaining basic information as to whether they are able to recover their money from the sale of this property. They're the company's biggest creditor, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and they have no influence on its management, because that's how our country works. And what we need to change is, above all, the quality of supervision, his approach to his duties, and then the quality of prosecution of thieves and the efficiency of the services that today seem to be doing things that are apparent that will not bring citizens to a point where they will be able to recover their money. That is why, unfortunately, I believe that the law introduced by you today, although crucial from a supervisory point of view, does not protect citizens from this type of issue. And that's the biggest negative of this bill: it's not going to change much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u222	Mr Jan Łopata, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to proposals for amendments to certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and protection of investors in the financial market. That's the name of the bill. High Seym! The bill includes proposals for amendments to 19 laws and, most importantly, was introduced today, on a good ad hoc matter, after the session of the Sejm. Due to this procedure and undoubtedly complicated content, I will present only the general scope of the proposed changes. Thus, it is proposed to change the financing method of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority, which is intended to provide funding directly from fees paid by supervised financial market entities. It's a change, and it's not just the one that's likely to make supervised entities happy. The second proposal is to extend the composition of the Financial Supervision Committee. It's an interesting proposition. Perhaps it is worth mentioning all these people, the institutions proposed to extend the NCF, the Financial Supervision Commission. These include a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Banking Guarantee Fund, a representative of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and - attention - a representative of the Minister of the Council of Ministers responsible for coordinating special services. The legal framework for the transmission of information between KNF and other bodies such as ABW, CBA, KAS, Police and the UOKiK are also laid down in this law. The statutory authority to communicate information to its staff shall also be given to the members of the committee in connection with their participation in the work of the committee, as specified, in order to prepare opinions. So the circle of people who will have this knowledge is definitely wide or wider. It is also proposed to add a provision allowing mutual exchange of information, including - attention - protected by law, between the Financial Supervision Commission and those institutions I mentioned here earlier: ABW, CBA, KAS and Police. Another proposal concerns the idea of creating a Financial Education Fund in order, as defined, to raise the financial awareness of Poles, in particular in the case of investment products. The funding of this fund is to be financed by the administrative penalties imposed by the KNF, certain administrative penalties imposed by the President of the OOK and the Financial Ombudsman of the Audit Supervision Commission, as well as the formations and cash benefits decided by the court. It is worth noting that the planned amount of penalties imposed only by KNF, as I read in the explanatory memorandum, is 9 million PLN in 2019, and when we add revenue from these other sources, it will be a considerable amount. The only question is how it's going to be shared. I'm asking in context, and it's not mean at all, other funds, like the Justice Fund. It's a way of dividing, because, according to the press, it's divided differently than what it was supposed to be when the fund was created. It was meant to be for people, victims of accidents and crimes. Another amendment proposed in this novel is the mandatory dematerialisation of corporate bonds, investment certificates issued by closed investment funds and pledge letters. By sharing these comments which have been made before me, I believe that the way in which this is done is, in relation to the scope of the proposed changes, not good, not good. This is no longer the first law in this Parliament, and probably not the last, but I would like to suggest that we may be able to lean forward, as we call it, in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question here? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Ms Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform begins. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When I read that there was a draft law on strengthening market surveillance and investor protection on the agenda, I was very interested in what proposals were in this project. And unfortunately, I was very disappointed. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Please tell me whether the liquidation and subsequent establishment of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Financial Supervision Authority in a new organisational form and with a new financing system, in principle from contributions, from the financial market, as it was, is only the liquidation of the intermediary of the state budget... Secondly, will the extension of the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission to institutions that should already by their very nature be interested in what is going on in this market and how does the Financial Supervision Commission work, the creation of the Financial Education Fund and the dematerialisation of corporate bonds prevent scandals such as GetBack? In my opinion, these proposals will in no way prevent such incidents. They're so powdering, we're doing something. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u226	Thank you. Mr Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, like Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, I believe that this bill is illusory. Since you are introducing it at the last minute, giving us little time to get acquainted, I would like to ask you whether you agree that for three years you have accepted the Sticked Law, which did not fully protect citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens of the Republic of Poland! No law can protect your capital. You yourselves must be the protection for your money. You have to think, you have to analyze, you have to find traps. This law of the state won't protect you. Unfortunately, none of them will be protected. The only good element of this law is, in my opinion, the establishment of an education fund. This financial education, economic education should come from an early age, so that people can fully understand what your Member has said to me. It's about basic economic concepts to be sensitive, careful about what you sign, which is a little print, because most often what's a little print is the most dangerous. So that I think it's just a smoke screen that you're using to make it seem like you're doing something to protect citizens' interests. This bill won't do it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Perhaps my question will be the answer to your question, why we are so quick to proceed on this bill. I would like to ask you what is always the most important in the bill's draft law, i.e. not what is in the justification, but what is not in the justification, Minister. It is vain to look in the explanatory memorandum for words about changes in the article. 8. It is vain to look for information in the justification at all, not to mention the justification for this change, about extending controls from 6 to 12 months. It's a scandal, isn't it? Boy, they're gonna be at the company all year long. There's no excuse for that. The second amendment from the next paragraph in Article. 8 - blocking all accounts. So far 48 hours, now we'll have four days. It's almost a week's work. What's that for? There's no word that you're bringing something like this in. You're making changes by stealth. We need to find out what these changes are about. Of course, the bill turns 48 hours into 96 hours, but if you don't get all the pieces together, you don't know what's going on. Why isn't there anything in the explanatory memorandum about it? What are the reasons for such a drastic increase in the length of control in taxpayers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and blocking the accounts of entities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u230	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: When did you start investigating or working on this bill? I think this is one of the last seym prints that came to us. It also seems that this is indeed the aftermath of the GetBack scandal. I would like to point out that the first information about these irregularities appeared already in December and so on the good case you have done nothing. This concerns both the Ministry of Finance and the Commission for Financial Supervision. Looks like a smart Pole after damage. Now you will be figuring out how to show people here that you are alert, alert and ready to defend the capital of Poles who unfortunately, through their economic ignorance, are getting into such problems. It also wonders why the state institutions did not react as they should. At the moment, we have closed presidents so that they don't tell us what their relationship with the right-wing politicians they financed the right-wing newspapers where they announced themselves. This leads us to believe that this case will not fully see the light of day. As was the case with the JCCs. These relationships of financial institutions, such as SKOKs or GetBack, are too close to Law and Justice, so you prefer [[♪ The bell ♪]] walk past it in silence and ignorance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chief SKOK economist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u232	Thank you very much. To this question and earlier questions, please answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By collecting all these questions, I will try to answer them, and some doubts and fears will be resolved. However, a large part of the answer is literally written in the bill. Maybe I'll try to answer these questions one at a time and dispel your concerns. As for this provision, that the current office staff become staff of the office, which will have a new system, will function in a new form, that is to say, it is literally included in the bill so that there is no doubt. There was a charge here that the government, or the PiS, would someone try to push their people there. No. [[How can you not?]] As far as the KAS is concerned, which is what the Member has called for, the wording was different in the case of the KAS. It said there'd be new job offers within three months, right? And here it is literally stated that those who are employed also become employees of the new office, so that there is no such doubt. Check with the lawyers. We explained it just so there wouldn't be any doubt. [[Ask Minister Banasi, who said otherwise.]] Good. We're talking about print number 2812, about the record that's in that print. I'm not particularly interested in how it was in another. That's what it's like. Check with the lawyers that he guarantees that all people become employees. [[It's just a question of whether you're reliable.]] As far as the means of maintaining the Financial Supervision Commission, the Financial Supervision Authority, are concerned, they do not come from penalties. The penalties imposed by the Financial Supervision Commission go to the budget, to another source, so to speak. The funds for the maintenance of the Financial Supervision Commission are made up of contributions from financial institutions and go through the budget, but they are part of the funding of the Financial Supervision Authority, so there is no way that the Commission's office... [[Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u234	Mr President, this is not the way to continue. [[But, Marshal, in your eyes!]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Please note that the Financial Supervision Authority or the Financial Supervision Authority is not or will not be financed by the penalties imposed. You're confusing that with the Financial Education Fund. The Financial Education Fund shall be financed by penalties, inter alia. KNF, but also other entities. It is also falsely stated that the Financial Supervision Committee has five members. [[Members. Chairman, Vice-President and five members.]] No, it's eight people. Currently a member of the Financial Supervision Commission... Mr. President, I would like to ask you... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Currently, the Financial Supervision Committee is composed of eight persons. [[Your Marshal...]] That's not gonna work. You are holding a debate that will be held at the committee meeting. Now listen to the answers, take notes, you'll have time in committee because that's not how we're gonna be able to continue. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you very much. Currently, the composition of the Financial Supervision Committee consists of eight persons, not five persons, of which two are alternates and one is the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority. Currently, the members of the Financial Supervision Commission are not getting any remuneration for sitting on the committee and will not be in the future either. This law does not introduce this solution. That's a pro. Publico bono, keep that in mind. I've been a member of the Financial Supervision Committee for over two years. There's no pay for long, hard work. Even as it is a member from outside Warsaw - in this case it is one person - it pays its own travel, accommodation and return, and sometimes the meetings are up to late night hours. So this is a pro publico bono job. As regards the comments on financial education, please note that we have seen this problem for a long time. Already a year and a half ago, whether two years ago we started working in the Financial Market Development Council on the issue of financial education and, on the basis of the opinion of the government and environmental practitioners, we developed a programme basis. The Ministry of National Education introduced this programme basis. On the other hand, your Member - I do not see her now - said that it is necessary to educate from a young age, so why this fund. Yeah, to educate from a little age, we changed the software base. But please note that on these various kinds of issues, such as. Amber Gold, they weren't losing little kids, they were losing their parents, and their parents left school a long time ago. So we must also take care of the education of the representatives of our society who have already finished education, this education, let's call it school or university. We have to take care of them, too. There were also questions... The system, the way the office is financed is currently problematic, because these measures go through the budget, and it is the only way to make it more flexible, thus increasing the independence of supervision and the ability to shape the needs that meet in supervision. Please note that after the financial crisis in 2008, as you will look at financial institutions in the world, risk-related departments, legal departments or regulation-adjusted departments have grown very much, and the office itself has not grown particularly. This was due to various budgetary constraints. And that's how we solve this problem. We also consulted the environment earlier because, as you say, the office is financed by contributions, by supervised entities, and we were afraid that there might be a negative reception. This, on the other hand, has been received positively by people or entities who form an office, because the more efficient and efficient functioning of the office will sometimes allow certain things to be deregulated and eliminated by black sheep that hit the entire sector. So this is a positive change also received by those who will have to pay and pay these contributions. When it comes to dematerialization, he was moved by such a problem that among others. currently, in the case of an entity that has gone bankrupt, the situation was as it was here. mentioned that it may not be known who has the bonds. When issuing bonds in the form of so-called. a private offer - which we cannot eliminate because it is imposed by the regulations of the European Union - is such a possibility that the offer is addressed to several people, is in paper form and is de facto difficult to know, it is difficult to know who issued the bonds. That's why there's dematerialization, so there's a central register where it's clear. This will increase the transparency of turnover. And this is also welcomed by companies that want to operate in this market, so that there is greater confidence in them, because then margins will be lower. Investors also take this positively, because there will be greater transparency. Someone who invests in bonds wants to know how much this company has issued them. And if there were private offers - and they, I say, cannot be eliminated - but in fact it is not known how many bonds the company has issued, at 10 million, at 20, for a small pool of investors, or, as with this entity, the information is that they were some preferred bonds for a given group, with large interest, then the investor also wants to know, because it estimates the credit risk. So the introduction of dematerialisation is also welcomed by all de facto members or stakeholders of this process. Will these changes completely eliminate the risk of potential scandals or, I don't know, financial pyramids? Ladies and gentlemen, theoretically they will reduce the likelihood of this type of case, eliminate such cases. Notice one thing: if anyone wants to sell us a Mercedes, a new, brand-new Mercedes for $10,000. We're looking for something that's wrong, we're aware of that. But if someone offers someone an investment product, saying: you have guaranteed 10%, 7% It doesn't turn on anybody's light. This is the problem - the problem of education about how financial instruments work, what this entails, what is interest, that it is a risk premium, the higher the interest rate, the greater the risk that no one can be persuaded to cheat on this type of fraud. We are aware that this will not completely eliminate this, it will not eliminate the probability to zero. Please note that the best example is the US market. I think there is no doubt that the US capital market is the most developed financial market in the world, with the longest practical history, and American supervision He's strong too. We cannot say that the American society is not fully familiar with the capital market, because everyone there has assets in pension funds as well. We are aware that America is often modelled for the capital market. Please note that there was Madoff's scandal that ran the financial pyramid over the years, and many people, you might say, the wealthy, wealthy could also be dragged into this pyramid, which is, in general, has become the victims of fraud. So this risk can never be eliminated to zero, because this space must always be somewhere, because somewhere this economic freedom has to be. It's a problem to make space... To deregulate, you first need to educate and have strong supervision. And we want to go in that direction. I hope that if you have other specific doubts if there are confusions, we will also, of course, dispel them during the committee work. We're open. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And there was also a proposal to correct Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u235	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you can't do that. You can't do that. I was talking about art. 8, you didn't even mention the article in your answers. 8. But about the things you said. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) is amended as follows: 11 of the Capital Market Supervision Act, which states: "The Commission may impose fines in cases specified in separate legislation. In the second sentence, the amount of the fines imposed constitutes the revenue of the State budget. Just like you said. And you're putting together a project here that speaks in art. Point 8 (1): Article 8 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 11 the second sentence is deleted. It will no longer be the revenue of the budget, the Treasury. In point 2, you amend Article. 17. You say no one's getting paid. Then why do you write that the costs of the committee's office, including remuneration for the chairman of the committee, his deputies and prizes, are regulated from here, and not from the Treasury? But you're here... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't do things like this to lie from this place when you put forward a project that clearly says that punishments will no longer be a revenue for the budget, the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u236	The Minister's still... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u237	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is just as the Member has said. He's relinquishing... The penalties will not constitute the revenue of the state budget, they will be addressed to the Financial Education Fund. That's how it's written. The Member himself says... I don't know, I think we have a problem understanding. [[Change of article, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u238	No, there's no more discussion. That is why there is a committee meeting for this, sir. Minister, is it over, or do you still want to complete your statement? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Yeah, I'd love to. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: As regards the remuneration of the President, the Deputy Chairman and the Prize, it is not because they are members of the committee just because they are employees of the Financial Supervision Authority. [[He's gonna go to the prizes and the wages.]] Every employee, including the chairman, is an employee of the Financial Supervision Authority and this is because of it, not because he is a member of the Financial Supervision Committee. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending certain laws in view of strengthening the supervision of investor protection in the financial market, contained in print No.2812, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the Agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016 (Prints No. 2788 and 2818). Mr Janusz Śniadek will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Social Policy, Family and Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 20 September 2018, I would like to ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u240	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Szałabawek. There isn't. In that case, Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u241	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the contested law. We are proceeding with amendments to the Convention which have actually entered into force since the deadline for reporting possible opposition to the States Parties to the Convention was set until 8 July 2018, i.e. the time for this ended 2 months ago. It is necessary here to ask why we are dealing with the bill so late that we do not say: after time. The Civic Platform Club has no reservations about the substance and supports ratification. Amendments concern, inter alia, threats, issues related to the elimination of harassment and intimidation on ships. The revised guidelines of the European Transport Workers' Federation and the European Community Shipowners' Association have been drafted so that individual victims of intimidation can exercise their rights more easily. This will undoubtedly contribute to improving the level of safety and health at sea. This is important because of the very difficult working conditions at sea and on ships. The amendments deserve full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u242	The Kukiz Club15 in the person of Andrzej Kobylarz made a written statement. The Modern Club did the same in the person of Mr Piotr Misilo. On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski made his written speech and Mr Sylwester Chruscz, Mr Sylwester Chruscz, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. I'm gonna call a five-minute break. We'll wait for the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. But before I do, I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarnia in relation to the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. The conditions of employment of seafarers on ships, i.e. health care, medical care or social and social security, are very important acts of international law which regulate the working conditions of seafarers in the waters of the world. At present, the rules on sailors flying Polish flags are not equal to those of sailors who work under foreign flags. The proposed amendments aim to improve the factual situation regarding legal or health assistance in the event of ship-based intimidation or harassment. This has a huge impact on the quality of work and, above all, the mental state of the sailor. Rejection of this case may lead to an increase in the incidence of seafarers, which will translate into the quality of the work done and a decrease in the efficiency of companies and the maritime industry as a whole. Single cases can affect the entire crew, so elimination of such omissions is important. Therefore, ratification of these amendments is a necessity, and as the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, we are in favour of making amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u244	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016, print No 2788. This bill regulates the conditions of employment of seafarers, life on board, health and medical care, social security and social protection of seafarers. It is necessary to carry out the ratification procedure in this case, given that it is an essential act guaranteeing and protecting the rights of crew members of maritime vessels. One of the most important issues of the project is the provisions on workplace accidents and injuries and occupational diseases aimed at eliminating harassment and intimidation on board the ship. We are aware that intimidation and harassment in the workplace can have serious consequences for the physical and emotional health of workers, resulting in reduced motivation, increased absenteeism and reduced productivity. However, they can also have negative effects on companies themselves, resulting in a deterioration of working conditions and serious consequences. The implementation of the amendments will certainly contribute to the prevention of such threats on ships. In addition, the project provides for e.g. the obligation to guarantee the rights of seafarers working on Polish ships on an equal footing with seafarers working on foreign ships, which will consequently improve the conditions of employment of Polish shipowners. Amendments to the Code implementing Regulation 5.1 and Annex A5-II to the MLC will simplify the procedure for obtaining the Maritime Labour Certificate by allowing the renewal of the certificate for a further period not exceeding five years when, after completion of the inspection carried out for its renewal, it appears that the vessel still complies with the requirements of national law or other legislation to comply with the requirements of the Convention in question and the new certificate cannot be issued immediately and made available on board the vessel concerned. The aim of this project is to regulate and organise the existing EU legal framework on the safety and conditions of persons employed on ships, so as to ensure the proper application of EU legislation, and Kukiz15 supports the proposed project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u245	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the Commission's report on the Government's bill on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. By regulating the conditions for hiring seafarers and life on board, health and medical care, social security and social protection of seafarers, the Convention is an important act of international law guaranteeing and protecting the rights of crew members of maritime vessels. Given the obligation to guarantee the rights of seafarers working on Polish ships on an equal footing with seafarers employed on foreign ships, ratification of the 2016 amendments is essential. To adopt the Amendment to the Code implementing Regulation 4.3 in part: Guideline B4. 3.1 - The provisions on accidents at work and injuries and occupational diseases were the elimination of harassment and intimidation on board, in line with the latest version of the Guidelines on this issue, issued jointly by the International Maritime Transport Chamber and the International Transport Workers' Federation, which should be taken into account in the application of this amendment. Furthermore, it was recognised that harassment and intimidation on board could have serious consequences for the physical and emotional health of seafarers and lead to a weakening of their motivation at work and to an increase in disease. The PSL-ED Club is in favour of the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016, deserves the support of and the Modern Support of this Act will give. The Republic of Poland's amendments to this Convention should be bound by Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 I Constitution, i.e. with the prior consent expressed in the Act, which is being carried out. Three amendments are the subject of the current ratification. The first concerns the fight against harassment and intimidation on ships. The second and third concern the introduction of a special procedure for extending the validity of a maritime work certificate when the existing one expired and the new certificate cannot be issued immediately, especially when the ship is on a voyage. On behalf of the Poselski Club The modern recommendation of the High House is the adoption of this law ratifying the amendments mentioned above.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present my position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva. The Special Tripartite Committee, set up under Article XIII of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted amendments to that Convention in 2006, which were approved by the International Labour Conference on 9 June 2016. The International Labour Organisation Convention on Maritime Labour entered into force on 20 August 2013, after its prior ratification by Poland in December 2011. The Convention, as an important act of international law, guarantees and protects the rights of crews of maritime vessels. Its regulations concern the living conditions and employment of seafarers, medical care and health care. It also regulates issues related to social protection and social protection. The ratification of amendments to the Convention aims to ensure the rights of seafarers working on Polish ships to the same extent as those employed on foreign ships. The purpose of the amendments is to: - the elimination of harassment and intimidation on board as phenomena causing serious effects on the physical and emotional health of seafarers, - enable the renewal of the validity of the maritime work certificate, for a maximum period of 5 years, where the vessel continues to comply with the requirements of local law or other requirements of the Convention in question and the new certificate cannot be issued within a short period of time and is available on board the vessel concerned. The entry into force of the 2016 amendments will entail the need to amend the Maritime Labour Act. Amendments related to the prevention of harassment and intimidation in the workplace do not require a change of Polish legislation, as they are already included in the legislation. Ratification of amendments is part of the government's maritime policy. Moreover, it will not increase the State's financial expenditure or reduce revenue. This also applies to local government units. The proposal to ratify the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention has been consulted with trade unions and employers' organisations. The draft law was also addressed to the Social Dialogue Council. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u248	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. And now I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 46 hrs. 16 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017 (Print No 2726) together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control (Print No 2813). I ask you, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! High Seym! The Constitution, which is the foundation of the existence of the Supreme Audit Chamber, states in Article. 204 that NIK presents an annual report on its activities to the Sejm. I am honored that this constitutional obligation can be fulfilled today by the High House. Before I present the most important data on the work of the auditors in 2017, which will necessarily come from our internal reports, I would like to refer to the key assessments of external actors who are opinionting on the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The first evaluation shall be issued annually by the public. The Supreme Chamber of Control has the approval of the citizens of our country. Almost 50% of adult Poles think that NIK works well or very well. This number of people positively evaluating our work in recent years has been increasing gradually. The Supreme Audit Chamber is one of the best rated institutions in our country. We are grateful to citizens that they can see and appreciate the work of almost 1,600 controllers and administrative staff from the Supreme Audit Chamber. And what's important, for years, has been almost equal, well and very well judged by citizens who represent a whole spectrum of political sympathies. The second evaluation, equally important to us, was given by an external auditor who examined our work on behalf of the Sejm. The investigation covered three years, and exactly the period from the beginning of 2014 until the end of 2016. While public opinion polls refer to the external effects of our work, known to citizens, i.e. to post-control information, the auditor on behalf of the Sejm evaluates the NIK from the inside, examines how the House works, how it is organised, how it uses taxpayers' money and how this money is spent on its business. As a result of its activities, the external auditor stated that the Supreme Audit Chamber had the economy, purpose and reliability of public expenditure and public procurement as well as the correctness of the use of the resources of the Supreme Audit Board. And, importantly, the external auditor confirmed that the annual reports on the implementation of the House's budget were correct and reliable. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Another, very important external evaluation for us is carried out annually by individual parliamentary committees with which the specific departments of NIK cooperate. It is in these committees that Members dealing with various areas of public life use our reports on a daily basis. They see the findings, the systemic analyses made, the conclusions drawn. Representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017 participated in a total of 392 meetings of the Sejm committees. You had the opportunity to take a good look at our work. I wanted to thank the Members. All committees presenting their opinions in favour of the COP assessed the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber positive and unnoticed. I stress: all the parliamentary committees which presented their assessment have submitted a positive assessment and have not submitted any comments, in several cases also thanking the NIK departments. We are very grateful for the good opinions of parliamentarians on the work of NIK. Another external evaluation of our institution. The highly qualified staff of controllers and our control methodology make us a valued partner on the international stage. We are chosen by international groups to help other countries with European aspirations and to audit the most prestigious international institutions and organisations such as CERN, the European Organisation for Atomic Research, and the Council of Europe. I wanted to inform you, and this is the latest news, that the Supreme Audit Chamber has just won a competition for the audit of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, in Paris. It is also important to us that representatives of NIK, in recognition, among others. the merit of the Chamber in establishing international control standards shall be chosen for the governing bodies of the bodies of the bodies of the bodies of the state control bodies. Last year we had the most important meeting of European control organisations - the Congress of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities, EUROSAI. At this convention, delegates elected to their Management Board as Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. At this point, I would like to thank all the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber who, through their hard work, contribute to the development of NIK reports. I thank the controllers, who often spend many weeks in individuals, implementing the control program and writing speeches. I thank the administrative and technical staff without whom this work could not be done. [[Applause]] High Seym! There would not be such good external assessments of NIK's work without properly organized work within our institution. The external effects of this work, i.e. our audit reports, highly assessed by citizens, by specialists in various fields, also by journalists and, finally, what is extremely important for us, by you, Members and Members of all groups, show that the NIK is functioning properly, that our methods and standards of carrying out controls are adequately suited to the challenges facing the House. Our quality assurance system is based on the best international models and standards of state control, especially the standards of quality control INTOSAI, the International Organization of Supreme Audit Authorities. The Polish quality assurance system covers the entire control process. Key documents which arise in connection with control, programmes, speeches, information shall be subject to verification, evaluation and continuous monitoring by supervisory persons, including the President, Vice-Presidents, Councillors of the President, Vice-Directors and Directors of the NIK, as well as teams and departments supporting the control process. Why is this happening? Why are so many people organized and methodically organized in the creation of a final report? First of all, because that's the constitution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 202 read: The Supreme Audit Chamber operates on the principles of collegiality. The audit process involves all its participants from NIK, from the controller to the coordinator, vice-directors, directors, advisers, vice-presidents to the President of the Chamber and the College of NIK. Everyone has a specific task to do. Secondly, such a collegial way of working provides the recipients, i.e. the Sejm and the citizens, with objective and robust follow-up reports. High Seym! We have provided all the details to the Members in our over 500-page report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. So I'm going to quote, because of the new limited time frame for the seismic event, only the most important of the numbers, and I'm going to mention a few key issues. On the other hand, I will deliberately omit, due to the limited period of time, to discuss the findings of the specific reports, which you were familiar with in detail at the meetings of the individual committees of the Sejm. We are synthesising these findings in our report sent to the Sejm. And now some of the most important data on the House's work. In 2017, the Council The NIK carried out a total of 2196 inspections involving 1843 entities. The areas most important for the standard of living of citizens and the functioning of your country have been examined in 110 planned checks, including in the control of the implementation of the state budget, which is treated as a single control, which in fact consisted of 327 controls carried out in 307 units in 2017. I have already presented her findings in plenary of the Sejm. As far as planning checks are concerned, some of their topics have been suggested by the Sejm committees themselves. We received 57 proposed topics from the Sejm last year We've made more than 70%. of them. NIK also carried out 107 ad hoc checks, responding to ongoing signals of significant irregularities. Very often these signals came from citizens who sent over 5 000 to the House. complaints and requests. Among them, nearly 3% were complaints and requests sent by Members and bodies of the Sejm. We grouped them all, organized them all, and provided a valuable inspiration for the formulation of control topics. The financial benefits generated by the audit of NIK in 2017 amount to over PLN 106 million. NIK also submitted 79 notices to law enforcement authorities and 71 notifications to public finance spokespersons last year in connection with the audits. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, On the occasion of our annual seym reports... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u250	Mr. President, I'm gonna take a moment of your time. I'm asking you to keep it quiet at the gallery, Mr. Editor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u251	On the occasion of our annual Sejm reports, you asked us to make greater use of the institutions for ordering checks on other inspections and state services. We have intensified these efforts. At the request of NIK, other inspection bodies carried out 515 inspections, more than 200 more than a year earlier. I draw your attention to this data. In 2017, the Council The NIK has also carried out eight inspections together with the highest control authorities of other countries. I will mention only one control, very important for the people of Europe, but important for Poland, Poles and Poles in a special way. Yesterday we presented the results of the air pollution control, but this audit was accompanied by another international control, which Polish NIK was the coordinator and was attended by several European countries. We present, we show this problem in all major European countries, including those that have not been able to cope, and in those who are doing better with this problem. We have a huge contribution both in terms of the findings and in terms of the methodology proposed for carrying out this check, and we will inform you of the effects of this international check in the coming weeks. High Izbo! Each year, before our report in the Sejm, we discuss, in particular during the meetings of the Committee on State Control, the use of the post-control proposals contained in our speeches and information. In 2017, the Council NIK formulated more than 4.5 thousand. audit applications, more than 600 more than the year before. More than 80% of these proposals submitted to the audited entities have already been implemented or are being implemented in particular in follow-up. So the situation is very good when it comes to this kind of conclusion. It can even be said that the controlled institutions use and implement the vast majority of our proposals. However, I must share one concern and one concern with you, and this House is particularly predisposed to reflect on it. The de lege ferenda conclusions are a problem. In 2017, NIK formulated 110 such proposals. After a year, the level of implementation of these proposals reaches around 10%. The legislative process is, of course, long-term and our proposals are not mandatory. If we look at the level of implementation of the de lege ferenda proposals in a slightly longer period of time, e.g. Four years, it turns out that every third of the proposal has been completed, but here I am asking you and your fellow Members to use our proposals as much as possible in the framework of the work on laws. In a special way, of course, I address these words to those who are the majority in the plenary room of the Sejm, because they are the ones who can implement the de lege ferenda proposals in the new legislative initiatives in a special way. High Izbo! As I mentioned, all the committees working with the NIK departments on a daily basis assessed the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber a positive or no comment, while the Committee on State Control has expressed its critical opinion on our work through the words of the Codeferent. I draw your attention to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there are Members in the Committee on State Control who supported... For the sake of recess, I understand, Marshal, that I may continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u252	I'm prolonging my time. I just have a question about how long. How much more do you need, Mr. President? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u253	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u254	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u255	However, as I said, the critical assessment of our work has presented unconventionally Commission for State Control. However, pay attention to what surprised me. Well, those who voted are members of this committee, Members who voted in favour of this critical position towards NIK, are at the same time members of other parliamentary committees, those who have expressed their appreciation for the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber and have unanimously assessed our work positively and without comment. Some of the Members of the Committee on State Control, as I said, had a different view than the Member who referred to the report, even disagreed with the assessment expressed by the Coreferent. Therefore, I would very much ask that today, and in principle at the time of the vote - today in the debate and later at the time of the vote - on the adoption of the report on the annual activity of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I stress the report not on the activities of the President, the report on the annual activity of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the separation of political sympathies and anti-paties, the seismic disputes and the assessment of my person, in particular on matters which are dealt with by an independent court and independent judges, from the substantive assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber and its employees daily performing their difficult service, including. for all Members. Please, and I appeal to this place. I can tell you with full conviction that they deserve the highest assessment of this work, by observing the work of controllers, administrative and technical staff on a daily basis. Anyway, as I said, all independent institutions and objective grenades give this work the highest possible assessment. High Seym! Have the NIK controllers and their colleagues, whom I thank once again at this point - and I say they deserve respect and appreciation - heard any accusations in the context of our reports in public space? No. Did any of the NIK's reports reject them? Neither. Have there been allegations of lack of professionalism, objectivity or apoliticality of controllers? No, there were no charges. On the contrary, we are still positively judged by parliamentarians, industry experts, international bodies, journalists and finally public opinion. I therefore call on the ladies and gentlemen of the House to adopt our annual report on the activities of NIK. High Seym! In a few months' time, the Supreme Auditorium will celebrate the anniversary of its 100th anniversary. NIK was founded as one of the first institutions in reborn, independent Poland. Already today, I would like to invite you and your fellow Members to attend the celebrations commemorating the creation of the Supreme Chamber of Control. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to present the opinion of the committee to Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u257	Thank you, Marshal. Let me speak from here. Mr. President was kind enough to start by referring to the constitution, and so will I. In the light of the provisions of the Constitution, the Supreme Chamber of Control shall be subject to the Sejm. The Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control repeats this fundamental relationship between the Sejm and the only state control institution in Poland. In other words, the Sejm is the only body of our state overseeing the work of NIK. The instruments of this supervision, you can say, are quite ascetic. The main supervisory instrument of the Sejm in the light of the generally applicable law is the annual examination of the report on the activities of the Chamber and its acceptance or non-acceptance. It should be made clear that failure to accept the report does not have any legal or material effects. It is simply a reminder of the House or, to put it practically, a reminder of the House's headship. The Sejm in gremio is not allowed to supervise the House. It shall perform this function through the Parliamentary Committee on State Control. It is the responsibility of following not only the results of the work of the Chamber, which are above all the reports of the NIK, but also its condition and organizational condition. It was precisely the critical assessment of the organisation of the Chamber and the relationship within this institution that led to the recommendation not to adopt the report two years ago and a year ago, as well as today. The Commission for State control has taken the view that the external effects of the work of NIK and its internal situation are being assessed. Having seen errors or negligence in the internal organisation of the Chamber and using the only disciplinary measure it has at its disposal, namely the possibility of rejecting the report, it has previously requested that the report not be adopted. That's the way it's supposed to be this time. Over the years, the work of controllers has been built up with formalism. The current NIK authorities accept the absurdity of this situation. This bureaucratic formalism was enchanted in the form of the so-called. a quality assurance system. The report only mentions this system at a dose, but it is described in a document of 88 pages, which accounts for almost 20%. over 500-page report. It follows from this document that, within each planned subject of the audit, as well as in the context of unplanned topics, the involved workers at different stages must fill out 11 types of forms. For example, in the so-called. a summary of the comments submitted to the project, the coordinator of the audit subject, and therefore the key person to achieve the quality of the audit, must specify the comments submitted, indicate whether they have been taken into account, not included or partially taken into account, and describe how they have been taken into account or justified by their failure to take them into account. Most often the comments of a number of reviewers - and this is apparent from the speech of the President - are several dozen, and sometimes several hundred, so the poor coordinator must work through this litany, although none for him. At most, this formalism is made more convenient for reviewers. However, the convenience should be ensured for controllers and coordinators, not reviewers. The whole quality assurance system and other elements of the bureaucracy of the controller's work are simply unnecessary. Please approach this practically. Such mechanisms for recording and documenting work and job assessments make sense in large groups of people, in corporations where thousands of people work. There are about 1,100 controllers working at NIK. In such a few bodies more will be achieved through personal contact, trusting in the common sense of controllers and promoting creativity than through formalized and impersonal procedures. Blind formalization of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber confirms the current implementation of the model of professional competence of controllers - that was a quote - which is also mentioned in the report only in a few days. Professional competence is to be defined, defined and marked with behavioral indicators and scales that illustrate the different levels of their mastery. The competence profiles assigned to the functions have already been developed, which are to specify precisely what competences are most important. All this was invented behind the desks of the Department of Control and Professional Development Methodology. All this mitrage is currently being tested on the living body of the controllers. However, any paper model of competence will not change this simple fact that in the basic internal structures of NIK, with fewer than 100 people, everyone knows the value of everyone. Without this knowledge, advisers and directors in delegations and control departments could not carry out the tasks assigned to them as effectively as possible. NO-ONE is such a big institution as to stand before the compulsion to introduce complex formalistics, because without it, its leadership is not able to effectively manage the company. Paper formalistics dehumanizes NIK, which contradicts the need to build creative and sacrificial teams. Most of the control staff today are lawyers, administrators and economists. This is because for years there has been a directional selection, seemingly right. Working in state control simply requires intelligence, ability to think logically, analytical ability, creativity, as well as life experience and honesty. By preferring the chosen type of education, NIK may be cut off from potentially interesting candidates for work. If Poland is to develop in the long term as it is now, more and more important will be the issue of a broadly understood engineering character, which lawyers or administrators may not be able to handle. Without a doubt, the strong and sympathetic part of the organisation of work in NIK is that the institution regularly trains, in various ways, its control staff. The report rightly calls these specialized trainings because they are quite narrowly profiled. Supporting this tradition of specialized training, it should be noted that NIK fell into the organizational routine here. Such training is not very attractive for experienced controllers who have worked for many years. Their needs are different. In particular, they are less interested in the control instrument which they have mastered long ago and, more importantly, the substantive side of complex relationships taking place in the sectors they are engaged in. NO ONE has created this type of training offer for experienced controllers and, if I am not mistaken, is not thinking about it. We have repeatedly talked about the fact that the Supreme Audit Chamber uses a method popular in public entities to create specific financial reserves by planning excess amounts of certain expenditures. The difference between these public units and the Supreme Audit Chamber is that this House is the guardian of public expenditure and can be expected to behave exemplaryly. A few examples. About 700,000 were spent on foreign travel in 2016. PLN, and yet for 2017 almost twice as much expenditure was planned: 1300 thousand. PLN, but the amount of 800,000 was spent. zł, i.e. close to 2016 expenditure. In this way, a reserve of about 500,000 was created. zł. In the same way, this reserve was created, in quotes, for the over-planning of domestic journeys, which amounted to PLN 1.5 million. About 1.5 million PLN was spent on training in 2016, but in 2017 an expenditure of about 2,300 thousand was planned. zł, but spent the same amount as in 2016, or 1500 thousand. So the reserve was 800,000. zł. This reserve, artificially created due to the difference between the amounts planned and really spent, of course, is justified in the report. However, it is difficult to believe in these explanations, since this is the case every year, although of course it is not always in the same expenditure items. As I have said many times, the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber will be of interest even in the case of banal findings, i.e. findings previously well known to professionals in the industry. This is because NIK controls contain documented material. After such arrangements, i.e. documented, there are always people who are interested, and especially public people and journalists. Every reasonable public institution tries to assess the effects of its work. The House has been using certain standards for years. Among them are so-called. financial or reporting effects of irregularities, divided into five categories, as well as financial benefits, divided into three categories. The second group of meters in which the dominant position is so-called is interesting. the amounts of additional income and revenue and the increase in assets resulting from corrective actions taken after the control of the NIK. The total amount in this group in 2017 amounts to approx. 106 million PLN, i.e. almost 40% the implemented budget of the NIK on the expenditure side. The problem with this measure lies in asking what is the causal link between the amounts indicated and the findings of the NIK. An example of the sensibleness of this question can be the amount of more than 85 million PLN, which is 80% These financial benefits registered in 2017, recorded as the result of the 2013 National Bank of Poland audit. It is true that in 2014. The National Bank of Poland changed its investment policy in gold, resulting from analyses carried out in this institution in connection with the expiry of the financial crisis, which appeared in 2008. Due to changes in market conditions, the National Bank of Poland began to pursue a more aggressive policy in this area, with higher revenues. This, too, was the recommendation of the NIK, otherwise correct, only that - as I said - market considerations decided about this change. A few words about the report itself. It counts 521 pages, without annexes 474 pages. A useful, otherwise synthetic description of the findings made within the scope of the control topics and the effects obtained takes 3/4 volumes. However, the report lacks basic analytical data, as in previous reports. In particular, the lack of data that characterize the management of the Supreme Audit Chamber, e.g. with a professional structure of controllers, a structure of remuneration and reward, a structure of workload, etc. Incidentally, in 2016, the efficiency of the body of the chamber inspection staff was about two checks per controller per year, so really little, about twice as little. The lack of data for 2017 makes it impossible to provide an estimate in this respect. In short, the lack of basic data makes it difficult to assess the organisation of the work of the Chamber and is the result of an informed limitation of the Sejm's control function. As you know, the Katowice Public Prosecutor's Office has filed an indictment and a request for criminal liability of the President of NIK. In this sense, it is important that the fact of poor management of the Chamber, of management without concern for a high level of professionalism is confirmed. In previous years, we have indicated a similar style of management of the Chamber and, as you can see, there is no change in this area. The way in which NIK's internal affairs are managed is routine, in fact soulless, which demobilizes the best controllers, and paradoxically, the less creative it is to ensure the safety of work. In the long term, this must bring down the effectiveness of NIK, even if at the moment it is not visible to the naked eye. Therefore, the Commission for State Control requests that the 2017 report should not be adopted, as we have proposed in the past two years. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u258	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Wojciech Sharama, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the High House not to accept the report of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017. This situation is similar to that of previous years, the situation has changed somewhat. With regard to the substantive reasons, Mr Dziuba has already spoken extensively here. I will concentrate on a thread that is fundamental to law and justice. There is a criminal procedure against the President. Previously, charges were filed, now it's an indictment, and it's the start of a trial. We believe that one of the most important people in the country, the President of the Chamber, who is responsible for the control of the most important state institutions, the Sejm, the government, the President's law firm, should be a person beyond all suspicions. We know this, which is why this situation is still going on, what are the conditions for taking the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber out of office, but we also know what standards apply in the highest authorities of the state. Ladies and gentlemen! None of us can imagine, for example. another person in the country, the minister, the Prime Minister, was in the position of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. These are serious allegations, serious accusations of four crimes involving the exercise of office in the Supreme Chamber of Control. We can't get this over with. We believe that the President should not continue to perform his duties for the sake of the state and the good of the institution. We do not make it clear here, we do not speak out about the guilt of the President, because the court will speak on this matter, but this situation affects the work of the entire Supreme Chamber of Control, the work of the auditors. It's quite obvious that it's projecting because it has to project. We will now have a double, double-dangerous situation, as the previous investigation under the canons of the preliminary investigation took place in a private manner. The trial is open and we can, all the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber will be able to watch this, listen to the prosecutor's statements, statements of witnesses, statements of the parties, statements of the defendants, of course, if they want to answer questions of the court or questions of the attorneys. A request has been made to make all tapes related to the operation available. [[I don't think you've read it, because there's nothing about the president, it's about the infirmary.]] And now... Don't disturb me, sir. I saw you signed up. [[I signed up.]] You will speak in a moment, you will be able to express your opinion. I express my opinion... [[This is not an election rally, sir.]] ...and the club's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the committees have positively assessed the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in those parts which concerned the scope of the work of these committees. At the meetings of the Commission for State Control we also consider individual information from the checks carried out and in most cases this information is accepted. The fact that this is happening is the merit of the controllers, it is the merit, the result of the work of all controllers, all employees and this work, of course not fully, because there are reservations, this well done work deserves respect and thanks. It is Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that gives to all employees who try to make the Polish state work well, gives them respect, and there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, we do not accept a situation where the head of this institution, the President, who should be a person beyond all suspicions, has a criminal trial. This situation is unacceptable. In many other institutions such an employee, such an officer would be suspended in his rights. That's not what happens here. This is a matter of choosing the President, and we think that he should make such a choice, which will be good for the Supreme Auditorium and for the Polish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u260	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There is no way of not referring to what Mr Sharama said. In fact, it should be appreciated that he said clearly that this assessment is strictly political evaluation. [[I didn't say that.]] But that's because we're all bound by the old truth - which has a gingerbread for a windmill. You are unable to prove that the personal situation of President Kwiatkowski in any way affected the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017, which follows directly from what Mr Dziuba said. Too bad you didn't take care of the consistency of your speeches, but you're making a slalom giant between bad goals to prove a thesis you can't just prove. Gentlemen! We're talking about how NIK works on 475 pages. If we had set up the NIK reports here and the information that was submitted to the Parliament that had been developed, I would not have been behind this pile, although I am tall. Therefore, if we are to be honest as a parliamentary committee, if we are to perform a reliable role as a body that oversees the work of the NIK, we cannot do, introduce to ourselves and to people chaos in our heads. NIK is an institution. Nobody's the president. NIK is the central authority of state control, which must be trusted by the whole country - the whole country... [[That's right, sir.]] ...that his work is done fairly. And it's done fairly, as thousands of examples show, and the public is also talking about it. If it weren't, would NIK have been invited 652 times to the Parliamentary Committees and 55 times to the Senate Committees? NIK participated in 392 meetings of the committee and 39 Senate meetings. If that were the case, would the Sejm committees... If it weren't, there wouldn't be an assessment of this reliability and credibility. Would the Sejm be so eager to make requests for checks? 70% these applications have been accepted. It would be more acceptable if parliamentarians and Parliamentary committees applied themselves to putting these issues more precisely and parametrise their expectations. So we had a situation when all the Sejm committees gave an opinion on the NIK report and please do not say that they did so in terms of their activities, because it is sophistication. This is sophistication. You know, if we put the pieces together, it'll be 100%. [[Well, that's...]] Oh, yeah, 100%. And then we have an overall assessment - that's 100%. All committees one at a time and we have 100% Evaluations, and you're putting political upgrades on it. I'm glad you were reliable enough to say that in fact. NIK is not the president, it is a powerful institution of 150 controllers, 1500 people, 110 reports, even more planned checks, a similar number of ad hoc checks, that is to consider several thousand comments, proposals, citizen observations. So, ladies and gentlemen, why is it that we today have to talk about the functioning of one of the most important institutions in a country whose constitution devotes seven articles in the context of what happened on the State Audit Committee? That's how embarrassing the koreferent's appearance wasn't. Everyone like one husband and wife, including you, had a look of embarrassment and surprise on your face. [[And a moral hangover.]] Everyone. But you managed to overcome this cognitive dissonance: personal high assessment of the NIK versus party command report - to vote against. I want to tell you clearly: you are part of a fairy tale that no one can convince you that white is white and black is black. Here you are dramatically consistent and are looking for excuses, some projection by Tadeusz Dziuba, who invented some picture of the internal functioning of the NIK. Let me see those letters that are coming to you. Why didn't you go there based on art? Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Act on the mandate of Member and Senator to find out what it's like? You had every right. You have not exercised this right, but you are presenting your enunciations as the truth revealed to the committee. Even an auditor would be ashamed of that kind of work. This is because the PiS decided to target the Supreme Audit Chamber, because it is now the penultimate independent institution in the state. There's still an ombudsman. In view of the above, that for 3 years you have ruled and every time comes out indolence, privacy, nepotism, functioning on a level that is terrifying - from the horse stud beginning, and on the Polish Waters, melioration, drought ending - you are beginning to fear, because NIK is finally beginning to judge your work. Just like we had on smog - the assessment of your activity on smog in three years' time was crushing, it's crushing, and NIK is starting to say it. And he's gonna keep talking about how you're working, how bad you're running this country. In view of the above, what must we do? It is best to undermine trust in this House, to say that it is not so that this picture that we see in the results of the audit is not quite true. Unfortunately, you're signing in... This attack on President NIK, your attack on the Supreme Audit Chamber, unfortunately, is an attack on the rule of law. That's the way to see it. Trust in the institutions is the foundation of the rule of law and, in particular, must be trust in the Supreme Audit Chamber. It is necessary to separate: President Kwiatkowski, the functioning of institutions, this report - 2/3 of this material speaks about the functioning of the state, individual fields in the light of the control of NIK. Mine of knowledge, conclusions, information. And what I want to say at the end is that what is a major problem is that the Polish government does not deal with the de lege ferenda proposals, which I raise at the committee meeting every time, which we learned today in the speech of the President of NIK. 10% is the rate of dealing with de lege ferenda applications, 30% - an indicator after four years - that's embarrassing. It may be necessary to amend the NIK Act and order the government to examine these requests, to report on how the government has examined these requests in the course of this report. You also have to hit your own breasts, High Izbo. These conclusions are leaking through our fingers. Why is that? How does the Sejm Bureau work? Why are these conclusions leaking through our fingers? Why is NIK's work wasted? And I will say quite maliciously, sir: write to the petition committee, because at least in the petition committee the proposals are being considered. Well, it will already be PiS who will be responsible for this level, for lowering the House's rank to the extent that the chief state control authority has to write petitions to the petition committee so that its proposals can be dealt with. But there's no way. You are the vice-president of the party, and take care of this, Mr President, explain why this is the case. Of course, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] voted in favour of this report. I thank all the inspectors and employees of NIK for doing their job well, working for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u262	Thank you. I would ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! The employees of the Supreme Chamber of Control! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present our position. First of all, a little attention to colleagues from Law and Justice - we judge the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not your President. Mr. Chairman's got some issues he's... The courts and the state as a party of power for three years you haven't been able to handle it in a man's way. But I wouldn't want us to put 1,500 people on the bench, employees of the Supreme Board of Control, the most important constitutional body, who is responsible for control issues. This is humanly unfair and dishonest. We are talking about the Supreme Audit Chamber, about the 2017 report. That's the first line. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our club is concerned, talking to Members, there is not one case in which anyone, referring to the quality of the work of the Supreme Auditorium's employees, draws attention in their dealings with them to their indolence, to any arrogance at all. Everyone has a positive opinion about people who control what comes from their powers and tasks imposed by the Constitution and the Law. It's like the first line. As it happens, I am the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee and for three years I have not met with any law and justice colleague on your benches to question any report. What's more, to tell him that this report is bullshit, that it's pointless or that it doesn't matter. Everyone was actually putting out letters for employees, we thanked the Supreme Audit Chamber for their work, and I assure you that my committee has a lot of these reports to evaluate each year. Your proposals regarding the work of inspectors, controllers are really very important and are taken seriously in the committee of the local government. Here is my great thanks, because - once again - there was not a single report in which the quality, legitimacy, and merology would be questioned. There never was. There's never been a case of rejection. Moreover, the assessment in my committee was positive - your colleagues voted in favour. I wonder what the atmosphere will be or how it will feel in the plenary room when they have to vote against. How do they vote - on their own, as they think, or as they are told, in discipline? But that is your problem and a bit of breaking your spine when it comes to free parliamentary mandates. That's the facts, that's the truth. More - as the head of the committee, I happen to be in various local forums. There is a Polish Towns Association, a Polish Districts Union. So? Local authorities, corporations thank the Supreme Audit Chamber for their cooperation. Institutions, local authorities, which are controlled, thank you for the partnership, for the fact that, when it comes to these checks, it is not a question - I apologize for the term - digging, but very partner, substantive interaction and cooperation. Recently, I was at the anniversary ceremony of the Polish County Association, where President Ludwik Węgrzyn thanked all employees through the President for their partnership and cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are assessing the quality of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Controlled people thank you for the quality. I think that's the best assessment, the most substantive one. I guess there's nothing else, nothing more... There's nothing to question. As it happens, I am the applicant of the 729 print project concerning the so-called. Franc loans. I had a meeting with the franchise community. This is a report from this year, but here again I thank you for taking up the subject from which everyone was running away, everyone was afraid to take it. You wrote a report in which you clearly say the same thing as in our 729 print project. And the environment affected by the banks thanks you for this report, thank you for your courage, because you have to have the courage to say that you failed. It is important to consider objectivity, ethics, you have to have the courage, the spine to say that the State failed the exam when it comes to defending Polish consumers in matters of credit. It was this report that showed the truth, showed what I, as an applicant, also said when discussing the print project No. 729. And here again a great thank you to the employees of the Supreme Auditorium for having behaved properly, decently. I hope so, because I'm currently directing this case to the D.A.'s office... I'm gonna ask the National Attorney to oversee this case consistently. Ladies and gentlemen, the NIK report indicates specific institutions, bodies of the Polish state. There have been omissions, there have been negligence, there will be, there will be a continuation. Once again, it's because of the work of the Supreme Auditorium. The franchise community, people who are really hurt by banks, thank you. Mr. President, once again bow and thank you. I've done this before directly after talking to the environment. This report, ladies and gentlemen, goes to court today. He'll be one of the legal arguments. Now I ask the courts to question the NIK and the NIK report. Please note that the Supreme Court did not lean on this, and you did so. This is the big thing that makes your case somewhere, Mr Reporter, because you need to have the courage, willingness and determination to act in the interests of the state and citizens. This is something the High House didn't do about the franchise, which the court didn't do, and they did a report to the NIK. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we may not like President Kwiatkowski, it may not be the same fairy tale, we may have different grades, but I would ask that the final evaluation of the work of the Supreme Auditorium be fair. Let it be harsh, let it be critical, if necessary, but honest. Today I have the feeling that this is building history, more, building ideology around the situation, because this is a repeat, this is one time. It's about talking about something that's not true. I would really like to give this respect here to all the controllers for their work, so that it is a clear and clear separation. I repeat once again: the state as a governing party and the courts today are screwing up on the criminal issues mentioned earlier, this is not the fault of the 1500 people who work for this report so that we can deny it today. It's just not fair, and I think it's below a certain level. Let's keep an eye on the quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u264	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, and then I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Seym! Invited guests! I have the honour to present to you the position of the Modern Posel Club, but I would like to start by referring to the statements and statements made by Mr Wilczyński and Mr Maciejewski. I absolutely share your views, absolutely accurate. In fact, I'm going to touch on other issues, because it was very well diagnosed when it comes to assessing the situation that this is not an assessment of all the employees of the Supreme Auditorium, but only a personal statement about one person. I'm gonna cut to the chase. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control, it is the responsibility of the Chamber to present an annual report on its activities to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. It is a strategy paper that provides authorities and citizens with significant knowledge of whether the State is fulfilling the tasks imposed on them and whether it is responsible for managing public wealth. The Supreme Audit Chamber is the primary and independent body of State control. We're about to have a century. This institution was founded as one of the first institutions in reborn and independent Poland. Members have recently received a report on the activities of the Chamber in 2017. It shows the effectiveness, efficiency of the public authorities. The analysis of the document is interesting, but above all gives a reliable picture showing the operation of the State and its institutions and provides the basis for action and decisions improving the functioning of Polish offices and institutions. To illustrate the work of controllers, I will quote some strategic data. In 2017, the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber carried out and completed 110 inspections planned in 1837 units in areas with a decisive impact on the policy, standard of life of Poles and sustainable development of the country. The implementation of the State budget was also audited. In addition to the planned controls, the staff of the Chamber also carried out ad hoc checks that allow them to respond quickly to the problems that arise. In 2017, control procedures carried out in 350 units under 107 ad hoc controls were completed. It must be stressed that each audit ends with the formulation of the conclusions. In 2017, the Council NIK provided a total of 2196 follow-up speeches from planned and ad hoc inspections. They have reported existing problems and irregularities that have occurred or occur in the units checked. This is often due to bad law and imprecise records. The analysis of these records is therefore an excellent signal, what needs to be changed, what should be clarified, where to implement new regulations in order to improve Poland. It is worth noting that in 2017. The NIK formulated 110 conclusions de lege ferenda in 40 information on the results of the audit. As many as 70 proposed amendments to the laws, 26 proposed amendments to the regulations. Five proposals referred to legal regulation of perceived problems without indicating a legal act. Unfortunately, only 35 de lege ferenda applications have been completed in the past year. However, this is not decided by the staff of the Chamber, but among others. a legislative procedure which is not affected by the Chamber. As the Modern Posel Club, we do not agree with the rejection of the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2017 by the Sejm State Audit Committee. This is a criticism for criticism, with no hard grounds or substantive justification. Let me remind you that 28 of the 29 Parliamentary Committees have adopted this document, without reservation. On the contrary, many of them, as stated in the opinion, considered the report useful. The rejection of the report will undermine the opinion of the representatives of these committees. It will be like acknowledging that the people in them are ignorant, who do not know what they read and do. I will not refer to the words of the Coreferent of the Commission for State Control, because they are simply unsubstantiated and unbelievable. The personal dislike of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and that is what it must be called, should not be reflected in the assessment of the report and should therefore be reflected in the assessment of the work of all the auditors who have performed their tasks fairly throughout the year. It must be stressed that the surveys on the credibility of the Supreme Audit Chamber each year are improving. The opinions of this institution are important not only in Poland but also in Europe. The documents and the results of the audit drawn up by the staff of the Chambers are very often referred to by Polish Members, European parliamentarians, journalists from various media. Finally, there is a reflection. The Supreme Audit Chamber makes audit conclusions. So he's giving us a prescription to fix the state. Life shows, however, that the implementation of the recommendations does not go smoothly. It may be that the proposals of the NIK are not implemented because the individual institutions responsible for the reform of the law leave the situation unchanged by delaying the implementation of the guidelines for a more indeterminate period of time. Similarly, in the case of government administration, which should also, and not always so, give priority to the strict compliance of the Supreme Audit Chamber as government initiatives. In my view, there is often a lack of proven institutions of willingness to improve quality, improve their activities. Yes, checks followed by the implementation of accepted changes are pointless, but it is difficult to blame the Supreme Audit Chamber. The enforcement of post-control requests should therefore be given greater importance. I would like to remind you that every year all Parliamentary committees must propose audit topics for the Supreme Audit Chamber. In my opinion, it would therefore be useful to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm by introducing a provision which obliges these committees to take a legislative initiative in relation to the proposals of de lege ferenda contained in the audit recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Each parliamentary committee should be responsible for implementing the recommendations of the Chamber with regard to its proposed control. Such a committee should be responsible for preparing the relevant provisions and including them in the legislative process. Such actions would certainly benefit Poland more than criticising the Supreme Audit Chamber and rejecting reports. It is modern in favour of the report, and from this point on I would like to thank the entire staff of the Supreme Auditorium for their good work in behalf of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u266	Thank you. And as a complementary vote - Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! I join these thanks and, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I would also like to emphasise very good cooperation and substantive preparation for each meeting. However, speaking to Members of the Law and Justice, I can only say one thing... Unfortunately, they don't listen to it as much as anything you say to them. It's okay. I would like to say one thing: the hypocrisy they represent is simply raised to the nth power. They are bothered by the fact that the President does have proceedings at the moment, but they do not mind that the Minister for Special Services is a convicted person at first instance. They don't mind that his deputy is a convicted person at first instance. They don't mind that the minister of justice is a person who had very serious charges and was to be brought before the Court of State. They don't mind 'cause they're their people. Therefore, they want to do whatever it takes to get rid of the last independent person. I would also like to remind you that very often, when criticizing the Civic Platform, you used this argument: Even the Supreme Auditorium has negatively assessed the governance of the Platform. At the time, these opinions were good for you because it was necessary for political reasons. It's just embarrassing. As it goes on, if you want to take over another institution, which is the Supreme Chamber of Control, you will want to put your colleague in the chair of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Party Control again, then I will tell you one thing: you will only have to fill the chair of the Primate of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u268	Mr Jan Łopat, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017. High Seym! I do not hide that I was wondering whether the time devoted to presenting the club's opinion about the report on activities or one of the most important institutions of the Polish state, an institution which is almost equal to the reborn Polish state and whose role and importance in building an independent state is difficult to overstate, to sacrifice criticism of the opinion presented by the rapporteur and, as a result, by the party currently in power, or to try to synthetically present the results of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber last year in 2017. I am aware of the criticism of what was happening at the meeting of the Commission for State Control on 5 September 2018, the criticism of the so-called "state control" presented there. koreferatu, because in its nature, but also content largely does not deviate from the comments made in previous years, in the years 2015 and 2016, and I would have to repeat or repeat myself in my opinion of course these negative opinions, which are, in general, to say, after the dead to the target. I was just wondering, until today, whether it was just the phobia and the bad memories of the rapporteur or the political line of the party that has the Law and Justice in its name. And those doubts I had until now, until today. I thank the chairman of the committee for this political declaration. I don't have those doubts anymore. High Izbo! This Decision shall enter into force on the NIK will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the uprising. The Decree establishing the House contains principles and presents values such as honesty, honesty, conscientiousness, inquisitiveness, objectivity, which I strongly believe are principles - they were also in charge of the work of the inspectors, the employees of the House in 2017 implementing the work plan of NIK for this year, for 2017. A total of 456 proposals for audit topics were submitted to the NIK's work plan for the reporting year, including 112 proposals for topics submitted by the Sejm, the Senate, the Ombudsman and the President of the Council of Ministers. Complaints from citizens have also been taken into account. As a result, the work plan adopted by the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber provided for 110 inspections. High Seym! The mission to serve the state and citizens is expressed, among others. by means of control information containing not only factual findings but also conclusions relevant for improving the functioning of the controlled areas. The Supreme Audit Chamber focuses primarily on systemic irregularities in public administration activities and on factors that threaten the proper achievement of the State's objectives and problems which are particularly serious for citizens. Summary of the NIK audit studies carried out over recent years in the field of e.g. Health protection was the development of system information in 2017 and the availability and effectiveness of cancer treatment. A very important, important issue. In the analysis carried out, the Supreme Audit Chamber used the findings of 32 coordinated controls and as a supporting material 39 expert reports, external institutions. In view of the importance of the problem of public space management, the NIK has also developed information on the municipal space management system as a public good and has taken into account the results of 40 inspections carried out in this area in 2010 and 2016 from the second review period. The study also used information obtained during expert panel discussions. The auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber carried out 110 planned checks and 107 ad hoc checks in 2017, including the control of the implementation of the state budget in 2016, which included all the directors of parts of the state budget: seven local review colleges and four appeals courts, state special purpose funds, selected executive agencies and public legal entities, as well as selected local government units and selected other bodies implementing public expenditure, including entities outside the public finance sector. The checks on the use of the grant were carried out with selected 104 beneficiaries under the following parts: the Kosgalin, Higher Education, Transport, Health and Voivodeship Budgets. Checks on the operation of the state budget and the budget of European funds were carried out at the National Bank of Poland and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As part of the control activity, 2196 unit controls carried out in 1843 were carried out in 2017. And that's what illustrates the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber's controllers. In 2017, the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber submitted 189 information to the Sejm on the results of the planned and ad hoc checks and its representatives attended 392 meetings of the committee. The Supreme Audit Chamber, on the basis of the results of the audit, formulates audit proposals which may suggest concrete changes in the audited entities, and this is usually the case, as well as the whole of the issues examined, which are of a systemic nature. It is worth noting that the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber are an inspiration to changes in the law, often during the course of the audit. High Seym! In presenting these few assessments, I would like to emphasise once again that I fundamentally disagree with the opinion presented by the committee by the rapporteur of the Commission for State Control. On a fair basis - I stress once again: a fair assessment of NIK's work in 2017 and an evaluation of the NIK's activity report that we are dealing with today, we will be as a club in favour of this report, as I have pointed out, on the basis of a fair, objective assessment, and on a political level I will not analyse the report of the committee, and those who listen to me, who would like to expand their knowledge, and probably so are, I refer to the minutes of the meeting of the Commission for State Control of 5 September 2018. It is worth, dear Member States, reading, listening to, listening to discussions and discussions. To conclude, I would like to thank very warmly the leadership of the Supreme Audit Chamber and all employees for their great integrity in taking on important social and economical developments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u270	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow Members, especially from the PiS! First, I say that I am not, I do not feel like an opposition MEP, and that what I say will be an expression of not some of my political goals, ambition, but my beliefs simply as to how the state should function. And although I have many friends with you, even though I am a friend of Plato, but a greater friend of truth. We must not do this, we must not do such a thing that we do not take the facts away from clearly political goals. You can't do that, you can't do that, because it's no longer a democracy, although it's a democratic dagger, all these attributes, marshal chicks, parliamentary mandates. After all, here were the parliamentary mandates in the times of the Polish People's Republic and the form was seemingly democratic, and the content was undemocratic. What you are doing, unfortunately, is ruining the state very much because it destroys the principle that is fundamental to our civilization circle, the principle of self-limiting power. Power can't do everything. Although technically he may have such powers, formally, but he can't do everything. This border is marked by ethics, conscience, objective truth, constitution, general provisions, rules. And gentlemen, without embarrassment, you come here and say, "Well, that the report is good, that all committees have judged it so well, our goal is to remove a policy that is not ours, and we will use some excuse here." And you're using it. There's a case, let's say, criminal, I know, yes, but after the Kaminski case, as he rightly referred here One Member's attention, the pardon of Mr Mariusz Kaminski by the President, is no longer morally entitled to use such an argument. You have no right. It's just not fair. And it's very bad because it shows that you don't realize the price -- maybe there's no one to tell you -- what you pay for your fellow citizens. No one who tries to think for himself, who judges it, will approve of such a proposal, will approve of such a policy. He won't approve. You're just losing points. The fact that propaganda beats there and there are such posts, do not mislead you, because such action is bad for the state and no one who really thinks that our country is functioning well can accept it. As far as the Committee on Justice is concerned, as far as I know, the majority in this committee was probably in favour of a positive assessment of the report and it is simply not possible to make a motion for rejection in the plenary room. That's all. I will vote in favour of this report and I call on you not to do so and to withdraw this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u272	Thank you. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, is the first question to be asked. I can't see. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u273	Mr President, I would like you to refer to Mr Dziuba's plea of formalism and the bureaucracy of the Supreme Audit Chamber. There is not the word "hamordism," but it generally sounds there. Well, it seems to me that formal approach and attachment to procedures is the essence of conducting the control process. It cannot be imagined that the findings of controls, which may then have legal effects, including criminal consequences, will be based on unknown grounds. So please tell us a little bit about this quality assurance system as your achievement and the foundation of functioning, in order to disprove this narrative, which is of this type - we all know each other, in this context internal relations, instead of subjecting them to procedures, we can replace them with a meeting of colleagues. Well, it's a time when it's like, comrade, you know, you know, I think it's been a long time. It is impossible to imagine that the institution could be managed in such a way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's a big one, because 1,500 employees are a big institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u274	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Question for the rapporteur. First of all, how many NIK reports in 2017 were challenged by the Sejm committee, by the High House? It's like the first question. Second question: How many committees have given a negative opinion, and how much has a positive report for 2017? And three: Are you sure in your report you assessed the report or the president? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u276	Thank you. The question is now asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I, too, have a similar question to the rapporteur. What was the committee's purpose in making such a decision? With full respect to you, even in the committee of local government, you can say that, we are constantly considering reports, and you are not very active in these committees, you seem to have just not read any of the reports submitted, that this is the first time you have heard about control when reporting the results of this work. These are reliable reports in my deepest conviction. If you're accusing excessive formalism, tell me how the Supreme Board of Control is supposed to work. No procedures, no nothing? That would be crazy. This is the Chamber for this, so that everything will be clearly defined there. And I would also ask - I repeat this question - that you give at least one report that you have questioned, which you disagree with, which you believe has been manipulated and where the result of the check does not reflect the actual state. Because you vote or you speak not against the President, but against all the employees of the Supreme Auditorium. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u278	Thank you, thank you, sir. The question will now be asked by Wojciech Sharama, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, in the criticism of the Government of Law and Justice, you are being absurd. You are trying to make an absurd argument that the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber has nothing to do with the Supreme Audit Chamber. It's just absurd. [[Voice from the room: No. Who said that?]] When we evaluate the report submitted by the President, we can judge each of the auditors, we can judge each of the directors and we can judge the President. And the assessment of the President's parliamentary club is definitely negative. [[And the question?]] Membership! You seem like you don't know what this is about. The Member who says he is not from the opposition says that this is a political matter. Sir, there are four criminal charges pending. Is this politics, or are these facts? [[Voice from the room: Then pardon him.]] There's a trial, and the head of the Supreme Auditorium is accused of setting up competitions in the Supreme Auditorium. Why aren't you referring to this at all? At your club, Mr Maciejewski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you ever had a conversation about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u280	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u281	Do you accept this? Is that okay? [[Voice from the courtroom: Wait for the verdict.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u282	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u283	If he's going again... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u284	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[So far, there's no verdict. There's a presumption of innocence.]] Thank you very much, sir. You're still not heard, sir. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Voice from the room: May I?]] [[Voice from the room: He without mode.]] No, your name wasn't mentioned. Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u285	At the beginning, I would like to thank Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Mr Jan Łopat and Mr Janusz Sanocki, very warmly that you supported the report on the activities of NIK in your speeches. You know me. I really try to do my duty as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in a way that should be literally understood as apoliticity and uninvolved. I am embarrassed when I listen to Mr Sharama, who says: Mr NIK has four charges in connection with possible irregularities in four competition proceedings. In this term of office, this Sejm amended 37 laws on the basis of which 11 thousand were released. staff, [[Applause]] to fill these posts without competition proceedings, including more than 6,000. proceedings for managerial positions. Are you really not ashamed of what you're saying? [[The voice from the courtroom: He lost all of them.]] I know, because I've already read it, because we already know publicly who's gonna replace me and who's gonna stand up for professionalism... [[Ask Antka.]] ...and the objectivity of this institution. We've all read who's responsible. [[Where's Antek?]] I have to tell you, I'm just so embarrassed and embarrassed because if you would introduce me, At least one substantive argument... In accordance with the procedure, I will respond to what was presented as alleged allegations of the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber. We already know today. It was supposed to end with an appeal for my resignation. Mr President says: I cannot imagine, please give me an example of another public person who has legal proceedings. In this Chamber, Mr Meysztowicz spoke about public persons who perform ministerial functions... [[Convicted.]] ...convicted by the judgment of the Court of First Instance. If I had to take this seriously... For me, of course, this is a matter that is delicate to me, it is a burden, but there really is a big expression of embarrassment on my face when I hear you say it. I checked how you voted in those votes, in which you changed the competition procedures, eliminating it in individual public institutions. If you're serious today that the very serious, incriminating thing is that there are doubts about the four competition proceedings in which NIK employees won... I didn't come to this institution with the landing of my men, I didn't fire anyone. [[Applause]] In order to compete in these competitions, you had to have at least a few years of internship in this institution, and all the employees who won had a dozen years of internship, so really think about it sometimes before you say the words of criticism, which is absolutely unfounded. And now I'm going to the voices that were critical of the institutions, and to the accusations that have arisen, absolutely missed. I've heard that the work of the controllers is too formalized. Mr Dziuba said: building up the work of controllers with formalism, the coordinator must write many comments and documents, take them into account, fill in 11 documents. That's not true. The inspector carrying out the inspection shall complete one document. This one document This is the post-control assessment questionnaire. This is carried out by the controller supervising the control. The audit coordinator - I'm sorry - the controller completes the post-control evaluation questionnaire, the coordinator also writes one document: the post-control evaluation questionnaire and the other nine documents are filled in by the management staff responsible for the quality of the audit process. He fills out these documents by the Vice-Director-Operator, the Director of the Control Unit or the Vice-President responsible for the inspection, and even the President, because I am not exempted from these duties either. Control process in NIK This is a standard-based process that applies to modern institutions. [[Applause]] This is design management. This standard comes to us to learn representatives of other institutions and consider it to be a model. And it's not a coincidence that they want to put him in other institutions. I'll say it again: it's not true that the controller fills out 11 questionnaires like it did in this room. The controller and the coordinator of the inspection shall complete one questionnaire each. Another charge here is that the institution is dehumanized, that everyone in NIK knows each other, why these procedures. I do not know an institution that has 1,600 people and which will be managed on the basis that Gienek knows Józka and Jola knows Agnieszka. Let's be serious. Such a standard shall not apply to any other institution. He must have been in the state farm or in the Chłopska Samopoczye, where he actually... [[That's what they say at the PiS.]] ...the director knew a dozen or so of his subordinates, but not in such an institution as the Supreme Board of Control, which has nearly 1600 employees. The Member said that training is not specialized, that NIKO falls into a routine. The process of preparing training for the following year is that the methodology department asks all individual directors to report what training is needed. There's a lot of training there. There are general trainings, of course there are highly specialised trainings, because such are requested by controllers. Let me give you some examples. Isn't it a specialist training course: civil aviation security requirements at airports or a training on practical aspects of civil protection audit in crisis management and civil protection? I could trade things like that. When I hear that the Member says, "Let us prefer engineers, I am embarrassed." You were just talking about the charge, about the fact that maybe there was an impact on four competition proceedings. I am reminding you, although you are a former member of the Chamber, that the audit posts are filled in the form of a competition procedure. Nobody's gonna get in there to pick an engineer at the expense of a lawyer. These proceedings are won by the best and they are to win. In the competition committees there are directors of the organizational units to which the audit office competition takes place, and they are looking for those employees who are the best and who meet the requirements of those units. Yeah, sometimes we don't spend all our money. In this respect, we are standard for other public institutions. I banned my employees from spending money forcefully at the end of the year. If we haven't spent them wisely within a year, then yes, we return the money, whether from training or from foreign travel. Unfortunately, most public institutions have a problem with being included in spending limits on foreign business travel, but we do not. Every year, we make sure that every dollar is spent in a meaningful and legitimate way. Another charge I have heard from the Member's mouth that sometimes these reports talk about trivial things. Mr President, I'm a little embarrassed. I don't know if you know what control pool... as part of the checks carried out, what checks are most often carried out? Most often, these are the ones you are asking for as Members as Parliamentary Committees. Yeah, sometimes I have a problem, and I don't really think the subject that the Sejm committee is reporting is a hit. Only, as you have rightly pointed out, we respectfully note that the Supreme Audit Chamber is an organization, an entity, an independent institution, but of course it is supervised by the Sejm. We listen to your opinions. As you know, most of your applications are accepted. I just have to tell you that I have carried out a detailed analysis, which controls are those that you and you say are the most important, interesting controls, and now we are talking about smog credit or air protection controls, and I do not want to mention here. [[PSF.]] In the vast majority, these are the checks which are carried out on the initiative of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Therefore, the point that you have the impression that some controls are trivial is certainly a note worth taking to heart and thinking about. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, financial benefits. He said that he had doubts whether the management of the gold reserves, such as the more active ones, which only paid 80 million in one year, was from the request of the NIK or on the initiative of the NBP Management Board. I don't really know a public institution that wants to voluntarily admit that something is not on its own initiative just as a conclusion from the NIK report, so I'm going to refer to the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Audit Chamber on 20 September 2017 asked the National Bank of Poland for information on the manner in which the audit request from our audit concerning the investment of foreign exchange gold in order to obtain revenue. And what does it turn out to be? In a letter dated 22 September, the head of the office of the President of the NBP stated how the application was to be implemented. He pointed out that the decision of the Management Board of the NBP allowing after 4 years the placement of gold in commercial banks was adopted on 5 December 2013, i.e., note, less than a month after the inspection of NIK. How are we not supposed to tie one fact to another? I can assure you that the method of counting the so-called. The financial impact is very, very conservative on our part. Let me refer to the example. You have recently been informed that the European Commission has acknowledged the Polish side in the context of a dispute with one of the companies managing one of the sections of motorways in the Wielkopolska voivodship. It is about PLN 1300 million together with interest, this sum today is in a deposit account in one of the district courts. Do you know where this proposal is coming from, and why this whole situation? It was the Supreme Audit Chamber in its audit that revealed that the private operator of this section of the highway based the passenger streams on which it received compensation for excessive amounts. That's what NIK said first. I didn't give that amount today, even though today it's in a deposit account, not in a state budget. But I can say with complete peace that I represent an institution which, in the case of very many years, costs the budget of the state less than that budget, is spent on the costs of its operation. Another thing. Yes, it is true, Mr Wilczyński spoke about it, we are absolutely apolitical, we control every power. It is also true that our control process is, for natural reasons, a time-consuming process. If we are sometimes talking about a certain formalism, then how can we not build up such control as the Supreme Audit Chamber's control into certain requirements of formalism. When we come to a controlled entity, the controlled entity must know what rules and rules this control is under. True, the controller must document all the activities he carries out. More than that, the audited entity shall have the right to appeal against the review process in the adversarial proceedings in which there is a dispute in which there is a determining committee in which sometimes the matters of the college are settled. All of this, this procedure is time-consuming, formalized, but I can't imagine the situation, in very clear, precisely described procedures, to carry out control... In Poland, of course, there were times when NIK was an armed party arm, he entered a state company to find receipts for the director. I'm the last one to think that this model is the right one. All those we control have every right to know what rules are under control and what rules they have the right to appeal against the findings of control. I believe that any other procedure would be an inappropriate procedure in this respect, a contractual procedure and one in which we, as controllers, would enjoy a privileged position in relation to the entity that was controlled. To be honest, Mr Dziuba, I am again speaking to Mr Dziuba, and I am already firmly convinced that once again you will not try to tell us that the auditors are carrying out two checks. In 2017, the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber carried out 2196 inspections which covered 1843 entities. On average, mathematically counting, someone would say that there are two speeches on the controller. However, in fact, each of the 1120 controllers in 2017 participated in more than four audits, co-created at least four follow-ups a year. Why? The Chamber carries out the most checks in individual units in double teams. It is also possible that we address several controllers at the same time to controlled entities. This makes it possible to examine more documents, to interview more people and to draw up an application more efficiently and not far from the check. This also makes us less in a controlled unit, which also matters. Why are we running a competence model? It is precisely in order to better ensure to the controllers that the tasks we have prepared for them are tasks related to their competences. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have moved from prosecutorial proceedings to the stage of the investigation. The court has now requested all wiretaps, all operational materials, not pre-arranged materials by the Katowice prosecutor's office. That is the advantage of doing so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can only say that today, not as the President of the NIK, but as an ordinary citizen, I am waiting for a court ruling to show what the truth is about this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u286	Thank you. The committee representative Tadeusz Dziuba will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u287	Your Marshal, may I come from here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u288	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u289	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on the general issue, but I will leave this thread at the end of my speech. [[But that's a corrigendum?]] For now, maybe I'll concentrate on some of the threads that you've touched on the president. Mr. President, it's really hard to argue with you... [[Yeah, 'cause he does.]] ... Because you're turning the cat's tail. I did not say that the controller filled out 11 forms, I said that in the so-called. The quality management system you set up 11 types of forms, and I referred to an example not of a controller, but of an advisor who coordinates a given subject of control... [[So what?]] ...who is obliged to fill out these forms several dozen. Ask the coordinator's advisors about that, they'll probably tell you. I did not say that the trainings organised by the Supreme Audit Chamber are not specialized, on the contrary: I said they were specialized, so it is written in the report. All I said was that for experienced controllers who have worked for many years, perhaps this type of training is uninteresting and that you are going into a routine without looking for a special offer for them. I wasn't talking about the president saving money, it's a very good quality. I told you that you plan spending in such a way that in the budget of NIK there is some reserve, which is also common practice in public institutions, but I don't think that the Supreme Audit Office will apply such a practice, etc. You understand, then, that the debate with the President is difficult because you overlook the wording, thoughts and thesis that I have been making, but unfortunately, this is how you obscure the essence of things. There is nothing to hide, and here I come to the idea more generally that, as you can see, there is a deep dispute in the House about the perception of the Supreme Auditorium, a dispute difficult to resolve, overcoming. I'm going to refer to a case that you probably remember because of the analogy. In 2008, as you know, there was a financial crisis in the world, and it started with American banks. In this year 2008 the US banks were assessed by experts as impeccably working. The history of mankind knows many examples, when suddenly, when the situation broke down, it was discovered that the signs were earlier, only simply not spoken of. In carrying out its constitutional duty to supervise the Supreme Audit Chamber, the State Audit Committee seeks to see these signs. And for the last two years, and now the third year warns you that the way in which the House is managed, although, as I said at the end of my speech, today does not produce any visible negative results, sooner or later, it will bring them to you in the future and you should take care of it... [[Just like Antek's gonna fix it.]] ... seriously think about it. You didn't say that today, but at the meeting of the State Audit Committee you said - you have just given examples - that this reminder you received over the last two years has produced results. Let me remind you that as far as the other two years are concerned, we have pointed out that for years it seems that the Supreme Audit Office has not been able to cope with the question of summing up the various dispersed findings of its controls. It's usually called creating megainformation. Well, you called for it, and you specifically said that it was under the influence of this reminder that you developed such megainformation in 2017. So you admit that the strategy adopted two years ago by the state control committee is working well. Last year we pointed out to you that you are not using the statutory instrument for commissioning checks on a number of other control bodies. At the committee meeting today, I mean not today, but in connection with today's report, you said that you had just taken advantage of this suggestion in 2017. As I recall, you have given a multiplier -- ten times as much control as you've assigned to specialized control bodies, which are actually quite a few in our country. So you yourself admit that this form of reminder by failing to accept the report is effective. Let's hope it continues this way. Thank you, Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: It's a complete departure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u290	Thank you. The discussion is closed... [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski: Under Art. 186 I apply, which means every time I get permission to speak, if I apply to the marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Your Honor! I'll correct the information... [[Voice from the room: Seym.]] Excuse me, High Seym. I will correct the information that Mr Dziuba has provided. Not under the influence of the admonition, but under the influence of our analysis. Mr NIK has known for two years the fall of the NIK. This fall does not occur and will never occur, because this institution functions well. I'm gonna go over it again. The adviser shall complete one type of form assigned to each inspection occurrence. I'll serve you by order. You read the papers, and you don't refer to the knowledge that someone gives you orally. Of course, if there are more post-control speeches in the audit, this form is assigned to the post-control application. Yeah, every speech needs to be evaluated. No other form shall be completed. The control coordinator shall complete one form. You said it wasn't true. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't interrupt me. The control coordinator shall complete one form and one form shall be completed by the controller. One more important systemic remark, I didn't have time to say it before. Pay attention, because it's an important entry into the NIK Act, art. 17. NIK Act, Art. 17, states that the Sejm shall dismiss the President of NIK if he has been convicted by a final judgment of the court for committing a crime. Why did the then president of NIK Lech Kaczyński introduce such a record? Because the Supreme Audit Office controls institutions like the government, like the D.A.'s office. Today we have a situation - and then, in the '90s, we also had - that the Minister of Justice is also the Attorney General. What president of the NIK would control the prosecution honestly, reliably and precisely if the prosecution's charges were to be the basis for his appeal? [[Applause]] Yes, the NIK Act is very well formulated. I believe that the President of that time constructed it well, given the systemic responsibility and responsibilities assigned to the Supreme Audit Chamber and the President of NIK. Another corrigendum. You said that in the state control committee I said that it was after the committee's suggestions that we carried out, that we ordered more checks. I quote what I said: in the framework of the cooperation of the Supreme Audit Chamber with the control, inspection and inspection bodies commissioned by the NIK, the other control authorities carried out 515 inspections. There's a lot more of them than there were in the years before, because there was a need. I believe that where there is a need and where we can assign it to other institutions, this option must be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u292	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber be rejected in 2017. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints No. 2792 and 2815). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u293	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft law amending the law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The first reading was held on 5 September. Maybe I should start with the most important one: the committee recommends that the High House adopt the proposed bill. All Members, with one abstention, recommend the position I have put forward here. The Commission even proposes - but it is also enshrined in the draft law - that this law should enter on the day following the date of publication, because it is expected by farmers, it concerns a very important social objective related precisely to the areas where pigs are bred and where African swine fever has occurred. The aim of this law is to ensure that healthy meat and preparations from healthy pigs - meat and preparations from healthy pigs - can be sold without any restriction. [[The preparations have already been made, meat.]] Why is that? Because at the moment, where African swine fever occurs, it is usually the case that companies lower the price - we say, as I said, about healthy pigs, about healthy pigs - and farmers lose very much on it. The point is that meat from these pigs, as well as preparations from these pigs, can be sold normally, without any restriction, provided, of course, that they are healthy and tested animals which may be slaughtered in a slaughterhouse and that their meat may be intended for consumption. If it turns out that the meat will be from the protection zone, it will, of course, be subjected to heat treatment, because that is the basis for getting rid of this virus. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This bill is expected, it is prepared as a matter of urgency. I thank the Ministry for preparing this bill so quickly, because farmers are waiting for this bill. Once again, I ask the High House not to prolong the debate on this law so that we can bring it in as soon as possible, because farmers are waiting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u294	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland, prints no. 2792 and 2815. In September 2016, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted the original draft law, which we are updating, whose main purpose was to enable the development of products of animal origin intended for human consumption, produced from meat of swine free from the virus, i.e. healthy but kept in areas where restrictions have been introduced due to the presence of this virus in Poland. Poland, in accordance with the decisions of the European Union, is required to take specific action in designated areas to combat and prevent the spread of the virus. These recommendations also apply to healthy animals and aim primarily at eliminating the risk of the spread of ASF virus and the emergence of its new outbreaks. It should be pointed out that, in the case of this disease, even sick animals do not pose any risk to humans. All the more so, no risk to human health or life is posed by healthy animals from restricted areas, as well as meat from such animals or products. Meat coming from such areas before processing and placing on the market shall be subjected to detailed testing by veterinarians and shall be specially marked. The pigs free from ASF virus may therefore be slaughtered and the meat obtained from them may be further processed, processed and placed on the market. These conditions were at the heart of the legal changes proposed at that time, which allowed for the elimination of unnecessary barriers to the marketing of processed pig meat from healthy pigs kept in areas where cases of ASF were found. These changes consisted in the non-application of the provisions of the Law of 29 January 2004. The right to procurement for the supply of meat products from purely pig meat coming from agricultural holdings situated in areas covered by orders, prohibitions, restrictions and other control measures. The current amendment has similar objectives. The new proposals concern the extension of the possibilities created by the Act for meat products and the inclusion of meat free from ASF on agricultural holdings located in areas covered by orders, prohibitions or restrictions. The proposed solutions will increase the possibility of selling ASF-free pigs for slaughter from the abovementioned holdings. ASF is a disease on which we will be doomed for a very long time. We need to take advantage of our experience and learn to function with this disease. This law is a step in this direction while ensuring safety and not increasing the risk of spread of the disease and ensuring an appropriate price for pig farmers. With all these arguments in mind, the Law and Justice Club will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is another project that doesn't really change much, and it's basically doing what it should have done from the beginning of the project that came along. Minister, it's just a relief, and we're talking about the most dangerous swine disease we've had, I don't know, ever. I don't know if the Minister knows that for today - because it has to be checked all the time - there are 112 fires and 2770 boars. That's a huge problem. It's just soothing the effects. And everyone asks, starting with the representatives of the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber, by producers, processors, when you present, and the government will present - and write letters to the Prime Minister - the concept of action, because this is what the right state requires. [[Applause]] The state of Poland requires us to present a concept of government action in the fight against ASF. I'm not talking about mitigating the effects. This is a mitigation of effects and, of course, for farmers, we must mitigate the effects of this virus, the effects that result. I, Minister, will really once again present scientific studies, specialized writings that show what is dangerous. Mr Minister yourself The PiS government hasn't been able to deal with ASF for three years with pig density. in Podlasie 15 pieces per 100 hectares of land. What will happen, what ideas Do you have any ideas to fight ASF and mitigate effects if this virus passes to Łódź, where there are 66 pigs per 100 ha, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, where the density of pigs per 100 ha is 73, and finally Wielkopolska, Zagłębia, where 143 pigs per 100 ha are found? That's a huge amount. We only have 15 pieces and you can't handle it, there's new fires all the time. What if there are 143 pieces per 100 ha in this area? Question: "Do you know that in Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Łódź are 67% the entire population? For months I have been calling and writing letters to Mr Morawiecki to present a concept to draw attention to what all professionals are looking at, i.e. those points that are most important: the immediate persuading of the entire herd, the use of bioinsurance and, finally, the strengthening of the Veterinary Inspection. All this information is found in all the studies, moreover, in all the reports of the teams that have been set up to fight. But how can we talk about combating African swine fever if 90 million have been allocated in 2017 and the Ministry of Agriculture has allocated 160 million to its prizes? What are we talking about? When you stop, how much money are you able to spend, and what exactly are you able to do? Question: "How can we limit the spread of the virus if there is no money to carry out a really serious epizootic investigation, because 500 doctors are missing from the Veterinary Inspection?" Minister! I've spoken to you many times. Let's look at this: If someone for 30 years could not cope with the fight against African fever, like Spain, and finally they created a system in which they managed to cope, then maybe we should not make their mistakes and look at what they did - very strong inspection, special groups to combat and eliminate the outbreaks, special groups to dispose of wild boars. At the moment, it was always known that 60% dead boars that are found are infected. The quick way to dispose and find is the next thing. When are we going to reduce boars to 0.1 pcs/km2? These are important topics, let's talk about it. A year ago, six months ago, we reported a project on this. Minister, please ask your marshal to consider the project of creating a special committee in which we will discuss what ideas you have, support them or criticize them. It is about how to protect Polish farmers from this - as Mr Szulowski said, this virus is - how to protect Polish agriculture [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the Polish economy to lose as little as possible...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u298	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u299	...due to the spread of the ASF epidemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u300	Thank you. A representative of the Kukiz club15 submitted a written statement. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft provides that the arrangements provided for in the Law of 5 September 2016 on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland will also apply to fresh pig meat, tested and free from African swine fever virus, from farms located in areas where outbreaks of that virus have occurred. The aim of this project is to make it easier for agricultural producers to sell meat which will have to comply with the strict veterinary requirements laid down in the legislation. And like my friend said earlier, it's a relief, but that's all. Modern will, of course, vote in favour of the proposed solutions because farmers are waiting for these solutions. But the frustration of pig farmers grows every day, as witnessed by farmers' protests. Farmers complain about growing bioinsurance requirements, huge disposal costs and dramatically low pig buying prices in the ASF region. It is not only the situation of farmers that is dramatic due to the spread of ASF. Also the location of underfunded Veterinarian Inspection staff, which is getting less and less. Their location is very difficult. As public officials in the performance of official activities, they are sometimes at risk of obstructing the conduct of activities in accordance with applicable legal standards, which does not help to combat ASF. What the representatives of both groups say in the committees, what they write in open letters, is frightening. We hear about verbally attacked and not just veterinary inspectors, but on the other hand, farmers who lose their income and their chance to live a decent life. This law does not in any way eliminate the problem of further spread of ASF. There is still a lack of a comprehensive system for combating a disease for which the State is responsible and, above all, for mitigating these effects. However, the government did not provide enough aid from the state budget. The veterinary inspection, which will have to deal with further requirements related to changes in the law, must be strengthened financially and in terms of staff. That's what my friend said, but we're gonna keep saying it. These people... Just simply, if we don't put the money in there - you have to understand - it won't work, it won't work. There's nothing for free. That's where you have to put the money. The same goes for bioinsurance - it won't go the same way. You can't just sweep it under the rug and pretend like nothing's happening, that we're doomed to this disease forever, and we have to deal with it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just take advantage of all these solutions that are used in many countries. Just stop kicking open doors and looking for new solutions, since there are already very concrete solutions. But somehow you pretend they're gone, you want your own. I don't know. I don't get it. Why don't you finally understand that you just need money, specific money? The implementation of the specific scheme in 2016 did not reduce the problems of buying meat from vulnerable zones. Despite all the work you put into meat testing, no one was interested in buying meat from risk zones: neither the Veterinary Inspection nor the processors nor the meat establishments. The prices of pork meat and meat products in shops continue to increase, while buying prices for farmers are falling and the solution to the problem is not visible yet. Now, too, it is uncertain whether this project will give farmers a place to sell fresh meat and whether intervention will work at all. Two years ago, with today's modernized specialty, farmers felt deceived. Therefore, it is time to stop having an apparent action in society, only effective steps must be taken to help Polish pork farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u302	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say, I sincerely sympathize with your situation. When I returned to the Ministry of Agriculture in April 2014, I had three outbreaks and 11 sources of disease. For two months the disease was kept in check, so that there were no more outbreaks. Your predecessors - both Minister Jurgel and Minister Bogucki - had at that time ready recipes to fight this disease. They told farmers, among other things, that the restrictions of the Veterinary Inspection on farmers are too high that they need to be relaxed, loosened, because we will have a wonderful programme not only to combat African swine fever, but also to support pig farming. In November 2015 there was still a call for proposals under the action: Modernization of agricultural holdings to support the production of piglets. Then almost 300 applications were collected for the amount of approx. PLN 225 million. I wonder how much this program has been implemented. You - as a member of the opposition, but later also a coalition, during the time of Minister Jurgiel - have also often stressed that as a PiS you have a ready programme to support the production of pigs, the rebirth of this production. I do not know if you know, but this year imports of piglets from Denmark and Germany will certainly exceed 7 million units. So it is not enough just to deal with a small part of the development of meat from areas affected by African swine fever. Farmers must also be taken care of. I ask the Minister why we do not know the government's position on the draft law of the Polish People's Party which strongly strengthens bioinsurance until today. Why did the Law and Justice Club decide that the PSL project was suspended when we discussed these two projects in parallel at the committee meeting? It wasn't a political project. It was a project to help the Minister fight this disease. It's a public-controlled disease. It's a very difficult disease. I also agree with you that you must learn to live with this ASF. Even in 2014, when the first cases and outbreaks of the disease occurred, professionals, veterinary professors claimed that wild animals infected with this virus would die. All you have to do is locate them, limit their movement and collect the dead. Perhaps this disease will end itself. Today we know that it won't expire because wild boars produce antibodies, so they're also carriers. So your idea of reducing the number of boars that I fully support is absolutely right. But what do the hunters say? I spoke to one of them today. He says the more we shoot, the more intense the reproduction of this species is. I ask him: Why? He says, "Don't you know? Even this species wants to survive under good conditions of change. [[Applause]] But let's skip that line. Minister! It's really high time you didn't use half measures, don't miss the problem. It is high time to spend a lot of money on this, to give farmers the resources to secure farms and hunters the real depopulation in the areas covered by this disease today, practically to complete destruction of the wild species. When the time comes, the area will be cleared, healthy wild boars will return, and there will be no loss to the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u304	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of speakers. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I'm closing the list. Krystyna Skowrońska will ask you as the first question. [[How many minutes?]] One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u305	Sprint. Mrs. Marshal! Minister Ardanowski! I'm glad you're in this room, and you hear all the critical voices. I come from Podkarpacie and live there. It is a region where there is so-called. the highest concentration of pig production. And even this project that the Civic Platform will support will not change the fact that you just slept for three years. We can say very popularly, the Minister slept for 3 years because there are more of these fires, as Minister Sawicki said. Tell me how you're gonna try to fight, aside from the selling instrument, so that the price the producer gives for such meat is like this. Same as in the market, not underrated. The fact that there's ASF, this is the place. or an opportunity for meat merchants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For producers to buy meat cheaply from farmers. The farmer is still losing. We need a comprehensive program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u306	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not discover America, as I will say, that Poland is a buffer for Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands when it comes to the spread of this disease. There is no doubt that it is. Minister! How much money from the European Union has this government raised in order to solve this problem, solve our problem and their problem? It seems to me, Minister, when it comes to not introducing this law or introducing it only now, that it would be pointless to charge Any money from the state budget to kill healthy animals, and it doesn't matter what zones. This bill has to come in, so it would be a great deal of damage if she hadn't come in. It's a shame he's coming in so late. Secondly, you create illusory visions. You're just kidding the farmers that there's gonna be money, and they're not. That's why this disease is developing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing, veterinary inspection. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u308	Mr President, time is up. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u309	The hall says, present in the courtroom, they say how common this problem is. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Good luck, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u310	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a short question: how will you address the project, to all the points that send all the organizations to you? In February, we also found this in our letter. First, will you present the national, coordinated concept of action in the fight against ASF, the upcoming ASF in Wielkopolska, Łódź and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships, to which this may be subject? Do you foresee persuading and checking what bioinsurance looks like? Did you create the concept of education and reliable information for farmers, for the whole society, as to what the ASF is, how to combat it, and how to deal with it? The immediate introduction of quick compensation for decommissioning and rapid compensation for farmers who resign from their activities. What will be the rapid response to the reimbursement of bioinsurance costs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's still not working. Pionizing an inspection that you have no influence on because the voivode doesn't want to raise his salary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u312	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the EFSA report, the best method to ensure success in stopping ASF expansion within a 200-kilometer control zone is to shoot 70% wild boars in a given area and the removal of up to 90% of all dead animals within a week from the fall of the animals. I'd like to ask you if you're thinking of looking for new ways to find dead boars, to launch a hunting segment when it comes to setting up patrols or some kind of search for dead boars using hunting dogs. As it seems, in today's reality, only a dog is able to find a fallen boar within a week of falling. Thank you kindly. [[The dog is spreading the virus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u314	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the sale of pork meat. Pork meat was an important export product, in particular preparations from that meat. How are our meat and meat products exports this year? Does this disease affect the level of this export? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u316	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor and answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This debate is very distinctive today, because it in this part of the High House and the public, referred by the opposition, basically skips the bill... [[Is that the problem or isn't it?]] ...confirming, and very rightly, agreeing to the obvious, that this is a very good and necessary bill. Therefore, all clubs have declared, just oppositionally, a vote in favour of it. None of you, none of you asking questions and taking the floor in the debate raised matters which were also very enigmatic and ineffectively the subject of some quasi-discussion at the committee meeting, because the vote at the committee meeting and the discussion itself with the arguments that were immediately vanquished indicated how much the law was needed and customs. And I think she's very valuable also as a start to a completely different attitude of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, which in this view... Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski is present here, who will certainly also want to share very important comments with you in his own voice. That's how he announced to you who asked if you could speak. I'm not a jumper here because I'm also, as you well know, a proxy for the government to fight the ASF. From the moment I took up this function, I demand that I be treated this way and be treated this way. It's about fighting the ASF, not having sex with it, being present, using Spanish as well... [[It was Mr Szulowski who said so.]] I didn't hear you. ...for example to show the need to spend with ASF how many years there are. [[It was Mr Szulowski who said so.]] It must be a slip of the tongue. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, he's a specialist working in this institution. I think he has more experience than the Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't know.]] Listen to me, Member. You're interrupting and commenting right now, and you shouldn't do that. I think the real issue of this debate is that you are defending the ASF as a concept, [[Joy in the Chamber]] As a company... [[Minister, as a matter of fact. What are you saying? You're full of shit.]] But let me tell you. This is the most substantive conclusion. If you interrupt me today, I will say this in press conferences, I will say this in front of the public. [[I want you to fight back.]] So let me finish the story of the whole concept, very specific, at least in a few sentences. There's something like this right now -- that's the state of battle with ASF -- like ASF. You were the founder of ASF in February 2014. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister Sawicki said - he had three cases and could not deal with them. [[Voice from the room: He advised.]] Did he? Then why... [[For 20 months, there were three.]] He's zeroed out? He didn't zero out. Sam said that after two months, it started to grow. [[20 months.]] Twenty... [[Voice from the room: you said two.]] You said two. [[Twenty.]] [[It would be nice to know how you do it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm, and I ask the Minister to continue his statement. [[For 20 months, the disease was in check.]] Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: It was classified because the three cases had to be eliminated. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And they were wiped out.]] [[They were wiped out.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ASF is based on the fact that if you look at it as a whole and from the real side, you can see that there are whole groups, whole environments that either already place their interests within the functioning of ASF or intend to. [[What a group they are, because you didn't say.]] Why is this bill so forgiving? Because it allows us to organize sales, to obtain pork from places affected by ASF, from zones, and it allows us to escape this difference between PLN 2 and PLN 5, which was market-developed under duress, because this is the most important in the entire law. We're done with this exploitation, we're done with the business that started to shape perfectly within these 3 zlotys. This will not be the case because the price to be paid by farmers from the zones, pork suppliers, will be the market price, will be the price which today amounts to about PLN 5 and above. [[What kind of groups are they?]] But it happened, it happened. In another place: please, the rendering industry has smelled the business and there are already installations to use the ASF to dispose of and make money. [[But there's a problem with the disposal.]] The rendering industry, powered by foreign capital, stands at the gates to cultivate such practices. [[You have a problem with the disposal. Minister, what are you saying?]] Next group: there was a problem, and there will be no more of this problem when it comes to the fearlessness of hunters associated with wild boars. [[I agree.]] There'll be applications that either... [[0.1 by 1 km.]] ...and there are already some first swallows that hunters in the current organizational form of hunting circles will get to work - hunters equipped with certain technical means provided by the government, which will ensure full logistics when it comes to supporting, or where necessary, will provide it in a significant part - and the task of immediate eradication of boars in those parameters discussed during this discussion will be in real time... [[Three years of fighting Hunting Law.]] The point is that if the hunting teams enter, they eliminate the problem in a specific designated area according to the timetable within a few days, two weeks, a month. [[And what about the wild boars that were shot off?]] This will also be included and included in the programme, I am talking about the overall programme. I'm not gonna answer that kind of question because they're obvious. There will be a need for all that is related to this in terms of logistics, i.e. for cold stores and other attributes needed to address this problem. And that's done right now. [[We've been talking for three years.]] If there were any symptoms of this being implemented ineffectively, then you can always reach out to certain formulas - in one way or another, in different proportions - using the fact that there are representatives of uniformed services among hunters who know the forest, are hunters, follow the same rules as other hunters, and will be using all these qualities, while being state officials, public workers, like hunters recruiting from military, police, firefighters... [[But this bill is here, Minister.]] ... Border Guards, other uniformed services, perfectly as a hunter, function in the eradication of wild boars, eliminate the threat vector... [[We voted it out.]] ...that comes from here. As far as information is concerned, see the last flyer we've ever produced. It's not persuasive, it's not a story that you have to live with ASF, that you have to live here... [[That is what Mr PiSu said.]] [[We didn't say that.]] [[There's TV, the Internet.]] But it doesn't work in that direction. And this here is completely in line with what I am reporting to you right now. And this flyer for the first time is a breakthrough in how to talk about it. It's not persuasive, it's written in a very simple system: order - ban, order - ban. And all the time... [[Voice from the room: This is an information campaign.]] And this is bioinsurance, these are very simple ways. As you have noticed, these are things that, in terms of ideas from the beginning, since 2014, have been lying on the street or in the air. And last, ladies and gentlemen... [[Three years with Mr. Jurgiel?]] ...evidence of how passionate he is in the political goods of ASF and the benefits it brings. This is the debate, that you are using these arguments, abstracting completely from the far-reaching nature of this law. [[What arguments?]] She's groundbreaking. She's eliminating some kind of hand-to-hand operation with ASF, on the principle of making money on it. And that ends right now. This bill is a breakthrough. And you will see how this will be a great percentage in this philosophy that I have presented, which I'm sure the Minister will develop. And the next days, weeks, months will bring full implementation of what I'm just communicating to you here. Whether you like it or not, you will. [[We demand that you do it.]] But for you, for the opposition, ASF is just a play-by-play topic. It's a complete abstraction from the bill that's being presented today, which is groundbreaking... [[You don't know the subject at all.]] ...which is the beginning of a real fight with ASF after a great deal of preparation. [[Voice from the hall: It's pathetic just.]] It's real. [[Come on, you're gonna have to learn.]] It's real. [[Voice from the room: Think about what you're saying.]] It's a commodity. Why? That is why, honourable Member, you use only false, demagogic arguments. [[Where?]] Everyone, every single one. ...disputing what... [[Voice from the O.R.: Please indicate where.]] ... I said and what this bill brings. [[I'm quoting you from your scientific studies. Why don't you read it?]] You have to... [[Voice from the gym: Why don't you go...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't argue... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: You're gonna have to question everything... ...bring her into colloquial after the Minister's speech. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: ...dispute That's what I said. There is no question about what I have presented to you here, both in terms of facts and opinions, and... [[Demagogy and lack of knowledge.]] ...a program that's been scratched. I think this debate has a historic dimension. It is also the beginning of the end of the political interest which you are killing and which you have persisted in hoping to bring you to the next political gains. [[214 bonfires on your conscience.]] It won't, because today the real fight against ASF has begun, proclaimed by this bill, which you support, and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ASF problem, of course, exists. I accept with great humility the claim that the Polish Government is guilty of everything. Recently, there have been new cases in Bulgaria, Romania, also in China and, recently, I have been informed of this information, imagine the country in Vietnam. We're probably guilty of this illness... [[China, too.]] I mentioned China. So you can put it in such a caricature way, enjoy it still. I understand that Mrs Sunday... [[Shame on you.]] ...the Minister of Agriculture in the shadows of the Civic Platform must show some activity, because her colleagues also judge it for this reason. [[You too.]] I want to make this brief. With great respect I refer - although some such ridiculous threads appeared there - to the fact that Minister Sawicki, who seems to know about ASF, is quite careful about criticism of actions. I have spoken many times about the fact that the experts in 2014 were not entirely in agreement, which should be done in connection with the emergence of the first cases. Some claimed that the problem would end on its own, that wild boars would become immune, that there would be no need to slaughter animals on farms, because it does not make sense to introduce some draconian sharpenings for farms, others claimed that, on the contrary, everything in a given area, on the territory of two counties, three counties, and the problem would cease. No decision was made, which, according to any information from the scientific world, had to result in the disease moving to the next areas. At the moment, African swine fever in the European Union occurs in Baltic countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, and outside the Union in the east, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. And all countries tremble before the disease can occur in the next countries. When I hear very critical voices here - of course it is the privilege of the opposition in a democratic country - I have in my ears words from a meeting with the Health Commissioner Andriukaitis from a month ago, who congratulated Poland on keeping the disease in a relatively narrow area along the eastern border and very highly assessed the actions that are being taken in this matter. Of course, it's different because I'm not interested in keeping the disease. Mr. Government Agent Simon Giżyński said precisely - and absolutely has my and the entire government's support - that it is about the eradication of the disease, not keeping it by no means known for how long. Some statements are inconsistent because, on the one hand, you expect to increase the restriction on bioinsurance and, on the other hand, Mrs Lieder says that farmers are increasingly upset about the growing requirements of bioinsurance. We need to decide something: Are we introducing the necessary measures that are necessary but maybe annoying to farmers, or do we think that we do not need bioinsurance on farms? So I don't see this consequence in my speech. The example of Spain was given, where, after many years, the involvement of huge money led to such a situation that pig breeding was narrowed down to powerful farms which are surrounded by two-row barbed wire... [[That's why we have to act so that it doesn't.]] Pigs are isolated from the outside world and pigs workers wear protective clothing and gas masks. Can you imagine such a model of pig breeding in Poland? Despite the great imagination... [[That's why you have to do everything you can to make sure it doesn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u320	Madam, I ask you very much to remain calm. Nobody bothered you. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: It's hard for me, despite my imagination, to create this kind of image in my head. What are we doing? It is prepared a very precise program of depopulation of wild boars, because according to all signs in the sky and earth, however, the reduction in the number of wild boars reduces the risk of transmission of the virus from the environment. We are also expanding bioinsurance by significantly increasing aid measures for farmers across the country, not only in specific zones. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] It may prove to be, although no one wants to do so, that the disease will move to other areas, not only to the protection area along the eastern border. [[Minister, three years ago, I was talking about this.]] That is why we have introduced 75% funding throughout the country for the purchase of those material components that are necessary for the extension of bioinsurance. Lists of products or items may be financed under this bioinsurance have also been approved. A request was sent to the European Commission for amendments to the RDPs for the period 2014 and 2020 so that funds could also be allocated to farmers who, due to decisions by veterinarians or because they wish to cease production, wish to switch to other production directions, would support this shift. In particular, as I understand it, this will apply to smaller farms because, to be honest, I am not interested in encouraging farmers to eliminate the production of pigs. Poland with its pig production cannot fall out of the European market, we cannot become importers of Danish pork, we cannot lead to this... [[That's what it is.]] ...that what was the force of Polish agriculture for dozens, or maybe hundreds, years, i.e. pig farming, also in smaller farms, will be destroyed. Maybe somebody in the world would be happy, but we're not gonna let that happen. As far as wild boars are concerned, they were carried out, although here the owner of legal changes and the one who oversees the affairs of the Polish Łowiecki Union is the Minister of the Environment, but I also made some conversations, I met with hunters from all over the country and obtained a clear declaration that hunters will be very intensive in the execution of wild boars. They have reported several technical issues, such as making thermal sights and night visions available throughout the country. They also have any number of cold stores provided, where appropriate. These cold stores are now in stock with the Veterinary Inspection, at the disposal of the chief veterinarian and voivodship doctors. We also have mobile military cold stores at our disposal, which at any time, if there is a need for a cold store anywhere in Poland, can be delivered within 1 and 2 days, in accordance with the needs of hunters who will be firing. [[What about waste disposal?]] These are completely concrete actions that are financed. There is also sufficient resources for this. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem should not be the subject of a political fight, although probably everything in Poland is the subject of a political fight. Actually, I don't think anybody's innocent in this matter, and that's something you have to admit to. It is a disease that spreads around the world. I convinced Commissioner Hogan two days ago to convince his colleagues from the European Commission, however, to involve the European Community more in this, because it is not a swine disease from individual countries. [[To fight, of course.]] She's starting to function according to unclear distribution rules. All efforts that are necessary, which are acceptable, which will help to reduce and eliminate this disease, should be undertaken. In Poland there is also a law, which was laughed at, even when it was adopted, so-called. A sandwich bill. It turns out that this is one of the most important elements of the isolation of Poland, protection against the possibility of transmission of disease in food from across the eastern border. We are a transit country, like Romania, and it turns out that it is possible to transfer the disease from countries that have actually given up, no longer actually fight this disease, they are unable to control it, countries located east of Poland. This disease can also spread in food transported by workers, in our case - mainly from Ukraine. [[Seasonal.]] There are difficult scenes, often dramatic, when the Border Guard confiscates food for these people going to work in Western Europe or Poland. This food has been confiscated here hundreds of tons, food from poor people who are going to work, taking cheap food from their country with them. But we are not afraid or even avoiding such drastic action to do everything we can not add to the situation of bringing the disease back into food. We're also considering... The mythical line of the Vistula, which someone described as a national defence line, was a kind of utopia in the sense that the river is no barrier to wild boars, they swim well, there are pictures, there are movies... [[They're swimming.]] ...which show the merry wild boars floating in the rivers, flowing through the big rivers. So this mythical dam wasn't a dam. We are prepared, also at the moment, and it is Maybe the song of the distant future... The barrier, seems to be effective, and such talks are also with the European Commission, will be fenced over the entire length of the A1 motorway because it is possible, despite unfortunately destructive actions by some animal organizations, to close all the gates... [[Voice from the hall: Pass for animals.]] ...to pass for animals over the highway, although there have been cases, even though these crossings are monitored, padlocks tearing, fences tearing and gates by people who think that this is how they help the game. We have to ask ourselves whether those who help animals understand the problem they generate for Poland, for Polish agriculture, for our economy, because it is difficult to imagine eliminating pig farming in Poland. Therefore, I would ask that there may be less political emotions about the problem of African fever. We take action, also some actions that do not require or need to be talked about very loudly. Some actions need to be taken effectively, not necessarily by honking on the agora about these actions. It's a good thing this discussion is. She is still particularly fond of taking the above-standard actions that Minister Giżyński spoke about. I am convinced that if we do the job well, soon wild boars will only be a nasty, bad memory of Poland's history. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal, may I correct?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u321	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I used to say that the ASF virus isn't about politics, it's about efficient action. And this discussion today was supposed to be about that. On the other hand, Minister Giżyński does not understand at all, he is doing some stories about the fact that there is an industry that wants to keep ASF in Poland. Let me remind you, Minister, that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...parliament is about asking difficult questions, and you're here to answer them. I'm asking the hard question. And thank you very much, Minister Ardanowski, for saying once again that I am responsible for agriculture in the shadows office. I'm here. I understand that my questions can be difficult because I'm really getting ready for this. And I advise you, Minister Giżyński, that if you want to talk about something, please prepare yourself. [[That wasn't a corrigendum.]] I give the exact information, and you accuse me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u322	But I don't think that's a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u323	...that I'm saying something I'm not saying. Take a look at the transcript. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u324	Thank you. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u325	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, as has already been said, is very expected, needed by farmers. I also regret that this discussion did not go precisely towards the provisions of this law. I think the opposition here wouldn't have much to say, because it's a law that helps farmers, especially those farmers in endangered areas, from African swine fever. But there were a few things I'd like to refer to, Marshal. Mrs Niedziela - please sit down - said there was no concept. I think that you have very substantively and calmly presented the Minister our actions, which have been so far, as well as what actions this government has to deal with this virus. I think these are actions that you don't even criticize, because you see that these actions are. [[We're waiting for the concept to be presented.]] And that's, I think, very important. You also spoke so critically, politically. You say unpolitically. There was, Madam President, a lot of this policy. Let me remind you that you were in the government in 2014, 2015 and then... [[Jesus.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, in 2015, fine, whatever. But in 2014, shooting wild boars was banned, and I think you remember that. You were at the Ministry of the Environment, and you also take responsibility for it, and you have to admit that then... [[In 2015, the Council ……]] ...the shooting of wild boars has been banned, and today you know this is a mistake. And this is a mistake that bounces back to this day, and it's a mistake that's hard to deal with, because the population has increased so much when you banned it. [[You know that's not true.]] Mr Sawicki, Minister Sawicki - quite a substantive statement, but I want to tell you that I think I can even explain why, I imagine, why you didn't do well in 2014, because you didn't manage and you know that you didn't. It's not about showing your finger here right now that you're guilty because that's when you learned it and you didn't do it. And then, too, if... I've said that before. It's just like with the human body: if this cancer shows up in one member of the body, how are we gonna cut it out here, if we can handle it, it's gonna flip; if this cancer in the body goes to other places, it's probably a lot harder to deal with. You may not know it, but your boss, as a doctor, I think, knows it because the chairman, I think, knows it, it's like it's in the body. You haven't managed, it's spread, and it's a lot harder right now. One more thing. Unity in your club isn't even today. Because I got lucky or misfortune, whatever, I was on one of the TV shows where we were talking about ASF with your party friend from the club, with an MP who was very much discussing with me that there was no need for wild boars to be shot off. Why? Because your editor was against wildfire, and you had to like it on this show, so I think you'd like it, and he was against it, and he didn't say anything about shooting, reducing. After all, we know at the moment, and I think you know too, and you have said that there is no other method at the moment, all scientists say that if we do not take off the wild population, and your colleague, you may ask, Mr Zgorzelski in one of the programmes spoke about it. [[Source, source.]] Yeah, so you can tell me I'm not fucking around here, but I'm telling the truth. He struggled very hard not to say that the boar population had to be taken off very hard. This is such a strong political discussion. The Member has already left, but maybe she listens, at the committee meeting she said, she gave an example of Chinese that it was forbidden to bring meat from these areas, healthy meat. If we are going in this direction, we are hurting farmers because we need this meat, these healthy pigs, I stress: healthy, sell it, we must sell it and get a good price because, as Mr Giżyński said, companies are earning on it. If we can't deal with the fact that companies don't make money out of it... This is paradise for them, for them this virus is paradise, because immediately the price of pork goes up by 2 zlotys and on each kilogram they earn 2 zlotys. That's what this bill is for, because that's why we're here. Why are you criticizing this? I don't understand. One more thing, I'd like to make it sound like it's here. Ladies and gentlemen, we must, and I think that if it is in everyone's interest, and I hope it is in the interests of all of us and the coalition and the opposition, all of us, the parliamentarians, we must emphasize very strongly that this virus does not harm man. This virus is no threat to humans. The point is that those companies that make money on those that scare Poles with meat, pork so they don't make money. Because this virus doesn't harm a human being and you can eat healthy meat from these areas without any danger, and if it's sick, you just rob it thermally and this virus dies. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to proceed on this project as soon as possible, because it is for a Polish farmer, because it is for Polish pig farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u326	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. Mr Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to correct it. It's about the Minister's misunderstood, the Deputy Minister, who hasn't heard me say I've been saying for 20 months, Minister, the bonfires, many times, that for 20 months... [[Voice from the room: No, you said: two.]] ...there were no new bonfires. That's one thing. [[The voice from the room: Check it out.]] Second, the issue of wild boars. Yes, in the first phase, as Minister Kalemby, this decision was made, but later, when I returned to the ministry and when Mrs.Niedziela was accused here already in the Ministry of the Environment, it was not only that she was being shot away, but also that the protection period for the dungeon was abolished. So then we knew that the boar was the vector that was moving. This virus doesn't kill all the wild boars, but unfortunately some of the wild boars of this virus are carrying. That was the decision to take the shot off. You should have continued. Then, unfortunately, the protective period was restored again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u328	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The main objective of the draft law is to ensure that meat intended for human consumption, obtained from pigs free from African swine fever virus, is managed in areas with restrictions introduced by ASF in the territory of the Republic of Poland. How long have we been struggling with ASF? How many solutions have been proposed? How many times has it been promised that the situation will be contained? Has anything changed for pig producers? Do farmers feel any positive changes as a result of the measures taken in this area? No. Farmers are still terrified of the effects of ASF and, in fact, the State is not dealing with this problem. It cannot ensure the safety of pig production. New information on further outbreaks is constantly emerging in the media ASF in Poland. Yesterday, the chief veterinarian confirmed another ASF outbreak in the Lublin Voivodeship, another farm was affected by the virus. Traditionally already, you can say, in this farm procedures related to the eradication of the disease have been implemented. That's a good thing, of course, but will it help to change the situation, to prevent more fires? The actions taken so far in this area do not bring any clear successes or decisions in this field. In the Lublin Voivodeship, in the Łęczyńskie Voivodeship, in the municipality of Spiczyn it is already 211th ASF bonfire - and 107th in 2018, found on the basis of the results of the studies received on 9 September this year. from the National Reference Laboratory for ASF, or State Veterinary Institute - State Research Institute in Puławy. The problem is therefore significant and in principle nothing brings us closer to solving it. It is necessary to express clearly the negative attitude towards this project, not even because of the proposals, not because of the diagnosis of the problem - because it is all happening too late. These solutions are really just another attempt to patch up a very deep case. Patch on the patch. All actions are taken too late and are really meant to make us get used to living with ASF, not fighting it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u330	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Information from the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation in 2017 of the multiannual programme.Programme for the protection of the shores of the sea and the timetable for 2018 (print No 2440) together with the position of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation (print No 2561). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski to present information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2017, under the Marine Coast Protection Programme, which was established by the 2003 Act, the Maritime Offices in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin carried out 19 tasks. The budget law for 2017 for the implementation of the programme is planned to amount to PLN 34 million. The tasks related to artificial beaches power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring of sea shores for an amount of over PLN 33.5 million have been carried out. As part of the programme, the Maritime Authority in Gdynia carried out inter alia. artificial power supply of the beach in the Sopot area was also made artificial power supply on the Hel Peninsula from the open sea side. The aim of the activities is to rebuild natural forms of protection of shores, i.e. a wide beach with defined parameters of dunes and zones in the coast. These activities are among the least interfering with the marine environment and are applied worldwide with great success. The consistent efforts in this area offset the negative impact of the erosion system, which is caused inter alia. a disturbance in the natural transport of debris along the seashore. Renovation of the fortification was also carried out on the helium pole and in the Mechelinks. The measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The renovation of Westerplatte's coastline was also started, which was damaged as a result of strong storms in January 2017. This task is continued in the current year, while the completion of construction works is planned in 2018. In turn, the Maritime Office in Słupsk carried out artificial power supply in the regions of Łeba, Ustka and Wicia. The total volume of works amounted to 64 thousand. m3. The locations indicated were supplemented by a reflux washed out by strong storms in December 2016 and January 2017. In 2017, work continued and this task was completed this year. Finally, the Maritime Authority in Szczecin made artificial power in the areas of Niechorza and Rewal with a total quantity of 142,5 thousand. m3. As a result of the retreat, the beach was restored and the sand deficit on the sea shore was supplemented. A shoreband was also made between Niechorz and Rewał at a length of more than 1000 m protecting the cliff on the indicated section. In addition to these projects in 2017, maritime authorities carried out monitoring of the seashore and research to determine the current state of the sea shores, as well as other activities to prepare investments for implementation. With regard to monitoring and research on the current state of the seashore within the administrative limits of the Maritime Office in Szczecin, this was not received by the end of 2017 due to the fact that the contractor of the works failed to comply with the contract for their implementation, although it should be stressed that the maritime offices, which are investors of all these works, properly supervise these investments and also ensure their subsequent settlement. 34.5 million PLN is planned for the implementation of the project in 2018. It is planned to perform artificial beaches power supply, reconstruction and construction of coastal fortifications and monitoring of the seashore. Please accept this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u332	Thank you, Minister. I now ask Mrs Ewa Szymańska to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I hereby present the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2017. The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the 2018 work schedule from print No 2440. After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 11 April 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above information to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation at its meeting on 5 June this year. She's looked into the information. The representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation discussed in detail the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2017 and the work schedule for 2018, as well as the comprehensive responses to the questions and comments raised by Members. Following the discussion, the committee asked the High Sejm to accept the information from print No 2440. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u334	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on information on the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2017 contained in Parliamentary Printing No.2440, as the year 2017 was another year in which the Maritime Offices carried out the above mentioned. The program. The Maritime Offices in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin had 34 million to use. This financing was carried out in 99%. The non-use of the funds we are talking about concerns 1% expenditure planned in the Budget Act. This was for objective reasons, independent of the directors of the maritime authorities who are implementing the programme, because they were external factors and therefore unpredictable. The information shall contain the required elements to be provided by the Minister. The information presented by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in the committee on which we had the opportunity to discuss the implementation of the Law of 28 March 2003 on the establishment of a multi-annual programme "The Maritime Coast Protection Programme" clearly shows the scope of the activities carried out and planned for the protection of the sea shores, and the data contained in this information on the spending of funds for the protection of the sea shores are not reservations. It follows from this information that in 2017 tasks related to artificial beach power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements were carried out. The objectives of these actions are set out in this report. Maritime authorities shall also monitor the sea shores and review existing sea shore protection structures. The assessment of the dynamics of the coastline allows for effective planning of actions and the use of optimal methods for protecting the shores of the sea taking into account local circumstances. It is worth noting that in 2017 the programme was planned to carry out tasks on almost 7 km of the coastline and carried out 1 km more. The programme implementation rate is therefore impressive and demonstrates the smooth implementation of the programme in 2017. In most cases, actions were related to the removal of the effects of catastrophic storms that hit the Polish coast in December 2016 and January 2017, and their aim was to protect the urbanised facilities. In 2018, 34.5 million PLN was planned for the implementation of artificial beach power supply, reconstruction and construction of shore reinforcements and monitoring of the seashore. These are tasks which are part of the follow-up to previous years, and the above shows that the protection of the sea shores is implemented consistently and systematically. The amount planned for the implementation of the programme is more than the amount from 2017 by 500,000. Moreover, the maritime authorities also use the funds of the Operational Programme in the framework of the financing of shore protection, infrastructure and the environment, in total, for these projects 217 million. The measures taken increase the stability of the seashore and prevent its erosion caused, among others. increased frequency and intensity of storms. Particular attention should be paid to the announcement of the continuation of the Marine Coast Protection Programme and work on the new programme already in 2019. This is particularly necessary in the context of climate change being observed and its impact on the coastal area, as the increase in frequency and storm power leads to an accelerated rate of erosion and, consequently, to the degradation of dunes and cliffs, which are a natural element of the marine shore protection system. This could lead to an increased risk of coastal flooding, which is associated with frequent flooding of lowland areas. The increase in average temperatures and the decrease in ice cover in winter months lead to a decrease in the resistance of the shore to washing. It should also be pointed out here that most of the Polish shore are erosion sections. It is still necessary to continue coordinated actions on the whole Polish coast with the guarantee of adequate resources. This is guaranteed by the continuation of the programme. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the High Sejm adopt the document presented by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, on the implementation in 2017 of the Law on the establishment of a multi-annual programme of the Sea Coast Protection Programme, contained in print No 2440. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u336	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the information of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation in 2017 of the multiannual programme entitled "The Maritime Coast Protection Programme', the timetable for its work for 2018 and the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which in June this year. She examined the documents mentioned above. High Izbo! The information in question results from the provisions of the 2003 Act on the establishment of a multiannual programme entitled "The Maritime Coast Protection Programme'. The main objective of this programme is to protect the coastal shores against flooding, including damage removal, stability of the coastline and prevention of beaches disappearance. The Budget Act for 2017 secures expenditure in the total amount of PLN 34 million for the directly performing tasks of the Maritime Offices: Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin. The measures planned for implementation in 2017 included artificial beach power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring. These expenditures were carried out in the amount of 33 650 000. zł, which represented more than 98% the amounts planned for 2017 of the budgetary appropriations. According to the Act referred to above, the indicator of the implementation of the programme in a given year is the length of the coastline protected from erosion and flooding from the sea, calculated in kilometres. The implementation of the tasks of 6.89 km of the coastline is planned for 2017. At the end of 2017, seashore protection against erosion and flooding on the sea side was carried out at a total length of 7,54 km. High Seym! During the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, we listened to detailed information from individual maritime offices which did not raise controversy. The only question was the security of Klifu Orłowski in Gdynia, where a dangerous slide occurred at the beginning of this year. Luckily there were no casualties, but ensuring safety in this area is still a serious challenge. I am fully aware that in the case of Klifu Orłowski, the powers of two ministers are intertwined: the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which is why after a dangerous event I tried to interest the President of the Council of Ministers. The threat was previously highlighted by representatives of non-governmental organisations from Gdynia, who advocated among others. arrangement at a distance of approx. 200 m from the shore of the stone submersibles. Thanks to this, after the necessary reflection, i.e. the overfilling of sand mined during the dredging of port channels and water tracks, the beach as a natural wave saver will not only be much wider, but will also be able to sustain itself. As Prime Minister Morawiecki acted passively on this matter, I raised the security problem in the cliff area during the meeting of the committee responsible, asking about the possibility of a systemic solution and who would be responsible if an accident occurred. So far, the security of the cliff is that there's a warning board in there. On one of them someone painted male genitals, which does not serve well the authority of the state that put up the plaque. During the meeting referred to earlier, I was assured that the table would be amended the following day. It's been three months, and the board with the vulgar drawing is fine, which can be perceived as a symbol of the government's attitude to the security of its citizens. People still walk on the landslide, and in the place most vulnerable to possible risks associated with subsequent landslides lies a lot of beer cans, leftover from the feasts held there. High Seym! I took the liberty of recalling a thread on securing the seashore in the vicinity of Klifu Orłowski, not counting on the rapporteur, although it is your duty to do so. Since the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2017 was carried out both financially and in kind, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I recommend the High House to adopt the document presented. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u338	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the information of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2017. The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the work schedule for 2018 together with the positions of committees, prints No 2440 and 2561. The programme presented is an implementing document for the government's transport development strategy by 2020 (with a view to 2030) in the field of maritime ports. The document diagnoses the current economic situation of Polish seaports and provides forecasts of freight traffic and passenger traffic of Polish seaports by 2020 and prospects for further changes in these markets by 2030. The main aspects of the expansion of this sector of the economy are the development of port infrastructure and sea-side access infrastructure and its adaptation to changing cargo structures, as well as the integration of ports with other actors in transport chains. Undoubtedly, increasing the share of Polish ports in the Baltic Sea basin market is a priority for the development of the economy, given that they form specific poles of development not only regional but also national ones. The proposed investment plans give hope for the competitiveness of Polish ports in the international sense. Among the most important investments included in the programme are among others.: construction of a waterway connecting Vistula Bay with Gdansk Bay, modernization of the Świnoujście - Szczecin water track to a depth of 12.5 m, construction of a central port in Gdansk, construction of an external port in Gdynia and construction of a container terminal in Świnoujście. The implementation of these projects is the basis for the competitiveness of Polish seaports and shipping on a global scale. Currently there are 28 ports in Poland, as many as 19 of which are considered local. Improving the functioning and further development of ports not of fundamental importance for the national economy is the deepening of the watercourse in Świnoujście and the excavation of the Vistula mine. This will improve the port situation in Świnoujście and Elbląg. Swinoujście watercourse - Szczecin connects the port in Szczecin with the sea. The distance of the port 67 km from the Baltic Sea makes it necessary to maintain the parameters of the waterway for sea vessels in the section Lower Odra - Zalew Szczeciński - the outlet of Świny. Swinoujście Track - Szczecin allows you to wrap ships with maximum immersion of up to 9,15 m. The planned deepening of the track will increase the maximum draught of ships to approx. 11 m. As far as the excavation of the Vistula mine is concerned, there is no doubt that it is a key investment, which is of great importance for Eastern Poland, but above all it will revive the economy of Warmia and Mazury. Based on the free access to Elbląg as a seaport, we will be able to build the entire transport chain as an element connecting north and south. The creation of this waterway, fully under Polish jurisdiction, will guarantee the freedom of shipping ships of all flags to the port of Elbląg and other ports of the Vistula River. At the same time, this investment by extending the activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland will ensure greater state security, which I place first among the priorities to implement. According to the CSO, between January and the end of July 2018, 52.4 million tons of cargo were reloaded in seaports, i.e. 21.9%. more than in the same period last year, which only shows that Polish seaports have huge potential and their development is necessary to improve the Polish economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u340	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, Moderna, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Modern Club, I am pleased to present my views on the information of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation from the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2017. The programme for the protection of the sea shores and the timetable for 2018 together with the committee's position. As my colleagues and my colleague mentioned, 34 million zlotys were secured for this program last year, of which almost 99% was spent, 33 650 thousand. zł. This programme includes among others: such investments, modernisations as in the case of the Vistula River, the strengthening of the coastline in the Fishing Angles and the Maritime Krynica. The Vistula and the Gulf of Gdansk. Artificial power in the Sopot area. Renovation of shore-building in Mechelinks. The renovation of the gabionna fortification in Mechelinki was carried out over a period of up to 96 km. Boundary reinforcement in the Revue, a task that will continue in 2018 with the Hel Peninsula. Artificial power supply in Władysławowo - Kuźnica region. Vistula flood, Vistula mine, Gdansk Bay, Hel Peninsula. I'm monitoring the shore. Program: open sea. Artificial power - Head. As a result of the retreat, the beach was rebuilt and the base of the dunes rebuilt. Artificial power - Ustka. As a result of the retreat, the beach was restored and the base of the sand dunes was rebuilt. Remodeling of the coastfold in Jarosławec. Open sea: manufacture of artificial beach power in Niechorzu, construction of a shoreband between Niechorz and Reval, as well as manufacture of artificial beach power in Rewal. Ladies and gentlemen, this information seems to be purely formal, and therefore, due to the implementation in almost 99% of this budget, the Modern Posel Club will recommend that the High House accept this information in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u342	Thank you, sir. The other Members have written their statements. We've exhausted the list of speakers. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. One question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u343	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you two questions. Point one, I want to go back to that cliff in Orlow, because this is, as far as I know, a three-city park. I would like to ask what is the role of self-government in securing this area from these unauthorised tourists. The basic thing is what's next with this cliff. For obvious reasons, this cannot continue. The second point that I would like to ask for for inland navigation concerns the mouth of Pigs and the regulation of this area in the area of inland waterway transport. In addition, I would like to point out that in this information many points end with the statement that the implementation of the task has enabled the maintenance of the coastline. Thank you very much for that, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u344	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation by Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! It is true, Klif Orlowski is located in the Tricity area, exactly Gdynia. The role of city services, order services, not just city services, but all of them, is the same as where there's a ban on entry, entry. Of course, he must be enforced. Nevertheless, we do not shirk responsibility. We feel like we host this place, the whole coast, which is, of course, a novel compared to the last years, which we have already talked about many times here. Klif Orłowski is located, as it was mentioned, on the area of the nature reserve Kępa Redłowska. According to the 2010 Regional Environment Director of Gdańsk on the establishment of a plan for the conservation of this reserve, one of the objectives of the conservation of the reserve is to preserve the natural processes taking place on the seashore. The natural process has taken place. This situation is constantly monitored by specialists from the Maritime Institute and employees of the Maritime Office in Gdynia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Commission proposes to accept the information of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation from the implementation in 2017 of the multiannual programme "Marine Coast Protection Programme' and the timetable for 2018 contained in print No 2440. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr. Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday's debate in the European Parliament on the state of the rule of law in Hungary revealed once again the state of European politics and the separation of a large part of the so-called. Western European elites not only from our logo-centric foundation of civilization, but also from ordinary decency. A performance in which, as the authors of one of the amendments have put it in a neat way, so-called. Communists and other democrats have surpassed themselves in declaring their love for the Hungarian people, while using the entire arsenal of insult against the democratically elected Hungarian government, should be the basis for caring and profound reflection on the future of the European Union. The government of Viktor Orbán has been elected by more than half of Hungarian voters, so it is an expression of the will of Hungarian society, with a strong mandate. In addition, it should be stressed that the Hungarian Prime Minister's group has already won another election, and therefore, in the Hungarians' assessment, it is stable and consistent in fulfilling their needs and aspirations. However, the Communists and other democrats have repeatedly expressed their opinion, especially the ALDE Guy Verhofstadt liberals, that the Hungarian Government has no right to represent Hungarians because it is breaking the law. Along with many insults and comparisons to fascists and Nazis, numerous accusations were also made, which are completely absurd, e.g. an accusation of persecution of gypsies, which can only be summarised by recalling the figure of Lívia Járóka, Vice-President of the European Parliament for the Fidesz party. Madam President, she is a Hungarian gypsy, and the only suffering she suffers from the function that Viktor Orbán's party has designated her is probably related to the absurd statements about her country that she must hear during such debates. If, in the future term of the European Parliament, voters do not make a serious exchange of its composition and continue, if not leading, then the so-called loudest role will in any case be played. Communists and other democrats instead of real, socially supportive politicians in their own countries, the future of the European community seems short and rather dark. If the leading figures of the European Union continue to be guided by a manifesto from Ventotene, such an Italian island, and not by Robert Schuman's vision, if instead of respect for the will of the European nations they seek to impose their own private vision, then the long-established community will be deprived of moral and legal support. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, will then become the European Community for most of the people of our continent only an illusory creation dealing with imaginary problems, and real problems will be ignored or shouted out with propaganda slogans and blackmail. political correctness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-12-sejm-68-1.u348	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 13 September 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 18]]
