ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u1	I open the 60th eighth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. Mr. Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 70th second meeting on 22 November 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on Public Documents, to the Act on the Amendment of the Law... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen of the senators... Excuse me, but I don't think you've noticed we've started. Is there a request for a break? No. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 70th second meeting on 22 November 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on Public Documents and to the Act on the Amendment of the Law. Education Law, the Law on the System of Education and some other laws. In addition, the Sejm at its seventy-third meeting on 6 December 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Doping in Sport, to the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, as well as most amendments to the Act on the National Debt Register. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 60th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-sixth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 9 October 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the functioning of social inclusion centres and clubs in the years 2016 and 2017. It is contained in print No 983. On 26 October 2018, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees have read the information and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point seven, point ten and point eighteen of the draft agenda, although the committee's reports on these items were submitted at a later date than set out in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of examination of point 12, i.e. Act amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, and considering this point as a third point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. Vote on point two, i.e. consenting to the appointment of the Ombudsman and the third point, i.e. The law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990, as well as the content of these documents, will take place immediately after the examination of the third point. If legislative proposals are tabled to the third point, the votes will be held after the session is stopped and the committee report is prepared. I would like to inform you that today's session will continue until 6 p.m. Tomorrow we will begin the session at 10.15 a.m. from the examination of the 19th item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of Maria Szymanowska. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Point 15, i.e. the second reading of the draft law on amending the law of. Code of Administrative Procedure, we will consider tomorrow in the evening. On the third day of the meeting, i.e. on Friday, we will begin the proceedings at 9.00 a.m. from the examination of the 18th point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the decree of Chief of State Józef Piłsudski on the provisional statute of the Polish State Palestry. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Well, if there were legislative proposals, it would be after the break. I would like to inform you that all other votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. On Friday 14 December, from 11.00 to 12.30 p.m., the session will be adjourned, during which a parliamentary fee meeting will be held in the Sejm at 12.00 p.m.... Sorry, at 11.00 p.m., there will be a parliamentary fee meeting in the Sejm, and at 12.00 p.m. the opening of the exhibition KUL will be the independent university of Poland 1918 I would like to inform you that tomorrow, following the resumption of the session at 10.15, following the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, the agenda of the present sitting will be supplemented by items concerning: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018; the Act amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land; the Act amending certain laws to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits; the Act amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and the lists awaiting the provision of health care; the Act amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, i.e. 5 laws. I remind you senators that electronic signatures for the presidents and vice-presidents of the Senate committees will be available in room 179 today at 12 o'clock. 12:00 p.m. and tomorrow from 11:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Maritime and River League. I would like to warmly welcome the representatives of the Maritime and River League authorities, led by the President of the Maritime and River League, Mr Andrzej Królikowski, Vice-President of the Maritime and River League, Mr Mark Padjas, Vice-President of the Maritime and River League, Mr Wacław Kowalski, and Secretary-General Tadeusz Kumierski. Very cordially welcome, gentlemen. Good morning. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No 937, and the committee's report In print No 937 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Wczeła, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Members of the Board of the Maritime and River League! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2019 initiative to establish the Maritime and River League was born in a group of senators and Members who form the Parliamentary Waterway Development Team. This team has about 30 parliamentarians, including 11 senators, and this senator group is the spiritus movens of this team. The draft resolution on the Year of the Maritime and River League was submitted to the Senate. On 25 June, the team adopted a resolution on the presentation of the initiative of the Senate to establish the Year of the Maritime and River League in 2019. There are 2 basic reasons why we would like this year to be the Year of the Maritime and River League. The first is that the Sea and River League is 100 years old. She is, you can say, an equalling of independent Poland, and is even older than her by a month and a week, because the initiative to create the league was born on 1 October 1918. The second reason is that 2019 is the year in which we will consult a huge program, the first such program in post-war Poland, the regeneration of our waterways. I'll talk about it in a minute. A project that today is a government strategy for the development of waterways... Before such a strategy, a project was submitted by the Sea and River League almost identical in 2010. It will also be an opportunity to say that these projects have their pre-war history. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a consultation meeting on the development of the international waterway E40. In Poland, this mainly applies to the Vistula. Before the war, the Sea and River League insisted on using the economic link between... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Excuse me, folks. Quiet, please. It interferes with reporting. There you go.]] The Sea and River League advocated before the war to develop a water path connecting the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. It was about the Vistula and the Dnieper. Today, this is one of the 9 major European arteries, the use of which is considered to be the transition from an energy-intensive, destructive circular transport environment to river transport. We can say that after 90 years we return to the ideas that the Sea and River League preached. In November, there was an exhibition in the Senate about the century of the Marine and River League. You could read the history of the league. The exhibition was opened by a marshal. I'm gonna say a few words about this story. As I have already mentioned, on 1 October 1918 there was a meeting initiating the rise of the league, then under the name of the Workers' Association on the Field for the Development of the Sail. The name has changed many times. The Sea and River League also had the following names: the Polish Sea and Colonial League, the Sea League. In 1924 it adopted a name that applies today. After the period of non-existence in the Polish People's Republic in 1999, the league returned to that name. The League has been focusing on promoting the development of maritime, inland waterway, water tourism and flood safety for many years. He cares very much about building awareness that we are a maritime country. This may be less important today, but during the pre-war period Poles were far from thinking that Poland is a maritime country. It was the Sea and River League that built the belief that sea is important for Poland. You could say the league taught us to be a sea country. She then generated the password "There is no Poland without the sea" and there is no sea without a war fleet. In the interwar period, its operation was very important. At that time there was no belief that building the maritime sector was important for Poland. The League founded the Maritime Defense Fund and raised money, among others. to the submarine named Marshal Piłsudski. Today, the league promotes the slogan "Let's stick to the sea." The actions of the league before the war were also important for the start of the construction of the commercial port in Gdynia. The Sejm adopted the relevant law in 1922 largely influenced by the activities of the league. In the league there were projects of ports in Tczew, Warsaw in Prague and Saska Kępa, a project for the regulation of the Vistula and the creation of the waterway I was talking about, the Baltic Adriatic, the connections of these two seas. And also important information is that before the war the Sea and River League was basically the largest Polish association. In 1939 it had 993 thousand members, almost a million members focused around the Maritime and River League. Members, people associated with the Sea League were such as Marshal Piłsudski, presidents, Professor Mościcki and Stanisław Wojciechowski, Prime Minister Ignacy Paderewski, Deputy Prime Minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, Bishop Okoniewski, Marshal Edward Rydz-Śmigły, Julian Rummel and Stefan Żeromski. They were all connected to the Sea and River League. After the war, the league also quickly rebuilt its ranks, with half a million members in 1953. Unfortunately, it was a bad year for the Marine and River League, because the PZPR Political Bureau closed the league, including her in the Soldier Friends League. This practically meant the liquidation of the league, and her then president Adam Mohuchi died tortured in prison. Besides, he wasn't the only one in prison at the time. He was a prisoner of communist times. The reactivation of the league took place in 1981, it was reactivated as the Sea League, and in 1999, as I mentioned, the name of the Sea and River League was restored. This increased activity of the league has been observed since the 1990s. In 2010 there was a league memorial on the elimination of negligence and development of water sectors of the economy in Poland. This memorial carries similar messages to those found today in the strategy of the development of waterways in Poland. Interestingly, this memorial was adopted at the Senate conference on 25 February 2010. It just so happens that the Sea and River League has always been more connected with the Senate than with the Sejm, hence the idea that we make such a resolution is, as it were, a continuation of a certain tradition. Today, the Sea and River League focuses on activities promoting the culture of being by the water, organizes rafts, flops, also traditional boats. League activists participate in the work of various groups, associations, in actions for the regeneration of Polish waterways, including marine ones. Members of the Parliamentary Waterway Development Team, members of the expert team, and this is probably the only parliamentary team that already has in its statutes that cooperates with the expert team. This team brings together about 40 people, including many people who carry out scientific activities. On 24 October, a meeting of the Legislative Commission took place. The Legislative Commission unanimously adopted a draft resolution on the announcement of 2019 as the Year of the Maritime and River League. Some amendments have been made, you can say, editorial or detailing some historical facts. There were no other comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u3	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jerzy Wcisla to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft resolution establishing 2019 as the Year of the Maritime and River League. Who among you is in favour of a resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted, 72 were in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Maritime and River League. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the President of the Maritime and River League to approach the president's table. [[Everybody up.]] [[Vice-Marshal Maria Koc passes the resolution]] [[Applause]] Would you like to say a few words? [[Chairman of the Maritime and River League Andrzej Ralikowski: Yes, if I may.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Board of the Main Maritime and River League and members of the league, there are over 50,000 people today, and these are also adults, and young people... We act in the awareness that we want to build maritime Poland. I think it's our conviction that we have thanks to our pioneers in Mr. cadmium. Kazimierz Porębski, Mr Antoni Garnuszewski, Mr Mariusz Zaruski. These are the people who were the pillars of the construction of Maritime Poland. We must not forget the economy, namely the activities of Mr Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski It formed the foundations not only of the central district, in the south of Poland, but also of the Polish coast, to develop it. Let us be very cordial on behalf of all of us, members of the league, on behalf of children and young people, on behalf of those who want to use our rivers who want to see maritime Poland through beautiful ports, through the worldwide range of shipping... Because today shipping reaches all countries of the world. This is very important, very important. not only for those people who are from the sea and are for this sea. We want to be a leading country in the world, and that's where we're going. I wish my Independent one, and I wish that to all of you. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen... I'd like to take this opportunity and hand over to your marshal, for all of you, in the tact of this beautiful melody, which is the polonaise... Raise your hand, God child, Bless the Land of Nice! In good advice, in good behavior, Support her strength with your strength. We would like to wish all countries, independent Poland, the Polish nation, all those who love the sea and want to stick to the sea from this place. This password for 335 years, the message of Stanisław Staszic, is valid to this day, and this is the flagship of the Maritime and River League: let's stick to the sea. For all of you Merry Christmas and a quiet year 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your wishes. I'll tell the marshal. Thank you very much. [[President of the Maritime and River League Andrzej Królikowski: Beautiful carol, beautiful song... Happy birthday. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the second agenda: to agree to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act of 6 January 2000 on the Ombudsman for the Rights of the Child Ombudsman shall appoint the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Sejm called Mr. Nicholas Paul Pawlak to this position. The resolution of the Sejm on this matter is contained in print No 1033. I would like to welcome Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak to the Senate meeting appointed by the Sejm of the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsperson on Children's Rights, Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Good morning.]] I would like to remind you that the Senate, before adopting a resolution on the consent to the appointment of a child's attorney, may call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the questions of the senators. Would any of your senators like to ask Mr. Nicholas Paul Pawlak questions or ask for explanations? There are questions. I would like to invite you to the podium very cordially, because I'm sure there will be a lot of questions for you. Professor Kazimierz Wind... No. Senator Piotr Wach, right? [[Yes.]] Good. You're welcome. Professor Piotr Wach, then Mr Mieczysław Augustyn and then Mr Jan Filip Libicki. There you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u6	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you how you will intervene and how Poland should react to families of refugees from conflict countries, but families in which there are young children, which would actually be part of your activity as an Ombudsman of children's rights. It seems to me that Poland has been, and is quite radically opposed to the reception of all refugees, but among them are often families with small children. I am referring to your attitude to this issue and the possibility to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go. We'll block three questions each. [[Group.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u8	Sir, I'm curious about your resume. Many organizations that write to us say that you do not have an adequate five-year experience in working with and for children. Please refer to this and demonstrate it if you do not. Because it's really amazing that so many entities that you should theoretically cooperate with are questioning your qualifications.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u10	Thank you very much, Marshal. Sir, I'd like to ask you this rather specific thing. I don't know if you have any knowledge of this. We voted here some time ago on the candidacy of the Ombudsman who passed through the Sejm, on the candidacy of Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska. We voted against, but it is clear who has a majority in this House and who can decide this choice. And quite unexpectedly, because the same majority is in the Seym, and the same majority is in the Senate, the candidacy that passed in the Seym, fell out in the Senate. Are you familiar with the reasons why this happened and why we are voting today or will we vote on your candidacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u11	Thank you. You're welcome, sir. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u12	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is a great honor to be able to stand before you today and answer questions. As I signaled during the session of the Sejm committee, it is most difficult to defend yourself. As a lawyer, I can say that defending clients is in a different form, perhaps less emotional, but it's harder to defend yourself. I'll go back to the senators' questions. I'm gonna start by asking the first question about how to intervene in the families of refugees, children. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the Ombudsman is to protect in particular those rights listed in the Act, but of course this is an open catalogue still to be clarified as regards specific activities. Undoubtedly, armed conflicts in the world are a major problem. Here I kindly point out and signal that so far, aside from all the obligations and obligations that may have been imposed on the Republic, Poland has tried in these most difficult cases, such as the various injuries of the body or catastrophes concerning children... Poland has repeatedly received children directly and served medical services, in many cases, including armed conflicts, including Syria, and various such events. As for the whole policy of the state on immigration, this is of course a matter which remains the responsibility of the executive and parliamentary authority, i.e. the legislative authority, and the issue of the protection of children residing in the territory of Poland... The Ombudsman does not have the possibility to act in full outside Poland, using all his powers, but if there is a situation that the child and family will be present in Poland, I will cover every child as an advocate. As for Senator Augustine's question about resumes and experience, let me put it this way... Thank you very much, Senator, for this question, because it is one of the main questions, this question is also one of the main doubts that have arisen over the last few weeks, since my candidacy has appeared, through the work of the Parliament committee, voting in the Sejm, until now, as you can see, also in the High House. Ladies and gentlemen, by clarifying this aspect of the formal requirement, which I am in principle fulfilling... The first point is that today is 13 years old, this is a round anniversary, 12 December, since I became a member of the Łódź Bar Association. That was in 2005. I've been a member of this chamber ever since. My activities weren't public enough... I wasn't visible in the media, on social networks, I didn't organize a Children's Day, I didn't organize meetings with children, and maybe I wasn't involved in strict education within the meaning of the bill. But the bill on the Ombudsman's Children's Rights As a lawyer, I have to at least analyze him about it. It requires working with children or for children, and at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it does not establish a catalogue of professions or skills, the privileges that a candidate should have. So the legislator, the state, has also given himself the opportunity to interpret widely, just today, here and two weeks ago in the Sejm, so as to choose from among those who worked for children. What was my job for children for several years? There are difficult situations in life that people don't brag about. There are situations that require closed doors Even so, they are provisions on legal proceedings, civil proceedings, criminal proceedings, various cases concerning children, for example. By the courts. These are family matters, contacts, alimony. After all, ladies and gentlemen, a simple matter, a trivial matter, you could say, about alimony is a matter in which the child is the cause of the child, it wants to secure some social rights, due to him from a parent or from a tutor. There were a lot of these cases, ladies and gentlemen. All my activities, also related to this other part of my education, canonist, were directed towards my family. So, since the child and the family, it's also the hardest problems. Today, in the media we hear many times about these most difficult media issues, when children are taken from home, maybe they die or other tragic situations happen, but there are a lot of things There were dozens of them, hundreds of them, and even thousands of them over the two years since I was in the ministry. Which are not presented on a media basis, although they are individually dealt with. And no one's questioning that for the past two and a half years in the ministry, I've been fulfilling this formal criterion. And I couldn't have done it if it wasn't for the practice experience. I came to the ministry as an expert, a practice, a specialist in children's affairs. What's the expression? It just coincided so that yesterday, December 11th, the draft of changes to the family and caring code, this is probably the biggest reform of this code since its inception, concerning parental authority, alimony, those things that affect the most children. He has been sent to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and may be presented to the government this year. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, I have gained my experience in the most difficult, non-media cases in which, after leaving the courtroom, from the sitting room or from some meeting with a specialist, I was thanked, at most, by my parents or the child himself. Yeah, I wasn't bragging about it. Many non-governmental institutions and organisations, including the former Ombudsman, have raised the need to set up, for example in family law, an institution such as a child's lawyer. Because the law follows life. First there's a need, and then there's a rule. Perhaps there is a need to introduce a child's lawyer, because now, in these most difficult legal proceedings, the defender of the child, in quotes of his lawyer, is the court. There's a demand for someone else to be there. Not parents who argue about having a child play this child among themselves, but someone who looks from the perspective of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, for several years, although there was no such provision, in my daily work I tried to do just that. I tried to be a child's attorney, even in cases that weren't discussed here, in criminal matters when that child was a victim. The child should then be a curator, such an outside institution. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards my experience, it was, of course, first assessed by your marshal, who submitted my candidacy, and later by the Parliamentary Committee and the Sejm, for example, in the vote. I hope this is a complementary explanation of experience, this requirement of a 5-year working period for children, defending children from institutions, from organs... I'm gonna talk to you about a certain kazus. Was that child's defense? That's the question I'm asking. Is it possible to speak of the child's defense when parents come with intellectual disabilities and it turns out that the child, also intellectually disabled, inherited from some distant uncle an inheritance with huge debts? And they don't have a clue what to do with this thing because the baby inherited huge debts. Isn't it the protection of this particular child to straighten out this legal situation? I leave this to the High House to consider. In this way I present my experience and provide precise information about the activities carried out for children. I'm addressing the senator. The third question concerned previous elections, previous candidates. Well, there were a lot of them. Dear Senator, High Izbo, I do not know what was the reason for such a vote, not another vote. I was signaling, reminding the Sejm committee that there were multiple candidates. There was a doctor, a psychologist, a sociologist, a scientist, and now you have a lawyer. Each of these candidates was pulling, so to speak, towards his own field. Now it's time for a lawyer. As for the reasons for this, and not the other vote on previous nominations, please, Senator, release me from the answer because I don't know what this was about. I wasn't here. I was at work that day, preparing documents for Mrs Agnieszka Dudzińska, because I knew that she needed support, cooperation on information, precisely those typically official, concerning children's rights. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u13	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As director of the department at the Ministry of Justice, you were responsible for overseeing the youth shelters, the correction facilities, and you were overseeing these institutions. As many studies have shown, as well as quite often emerging media and press information about irregularities in these institutions, in particular cases of breaches of the rights of the child... What have you done as the person supervising these institutions to make this situation, often dramatic, change and correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u15	I'm asking for an answer. [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Answer, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u16	Dear Senator, High Izbo! Yeah, it's up to me to this day to oversee the betting, because I'm still doing this job. Correctional establishments, hostels are only one of the elements of the whole system resulting from the provisions of the Juvenile Procedure Act in a situation where minors are corrupted or committed a criminal act. It is one of the small cogs, but it is quite important, because children and minors go to these bets, and children go there, who have sometimes committed the most cruel acts. That's the way it is, unfortunately. It can be said that in the area of... Correctional establishments, hostels have an excellent educational and educational offer for children, because it is our responsibility to raise these children, but the number of candidates, in quotes, to these centres is less than the number of places in these establishments. Staying in these establishments It's not a reward. In answer to the question, I will say that every time there were any negligence, when there were any voices that would indicate the possibility of breaking the rights of the child, it was immediately verified. There have been situations where people responsible for certain events locally, because there are dozens of bets, and there have also been consequences, and not only financial ones. Since the question is quite general, I also allow myself to answer at this level. Specific cases, so far, are not the ones that can be disclosed. If they were, we would be specific about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u17	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We often feel that the rights of a child are better protected now than several years ago, but there are areas where the rights of a child are violated more than several dozen or so years ago. I'm thinking about the right of both parents to raise a child. In Warsaw, most children are raised by single parents, and in any case not by both biological parents. Do you see the problem? What would you like to do to make the situations I'm talking about, the raising of a single parent, as rare as possible? What actions have you taken or intend to take in this direction so that both parents can influence the upbringing and formation of a child, even when they are separated for various reasons, do not live together and are not on a daily basis with a child? And, in conclusion, would you like to make this a banner of your activities as a spokesman? I ask because, in my opinion, violating the rights of the child in this regard is so great that it is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Unfortunately, parenting in, you can say, broken or incomplete families is a big problem. And that is a big problem for the whole society, because later it is precisely that, so to speak, it radiates on various behaviors, on different models of upbringing and on the behaviour of children, including so that, as a consequence, in these most drastic cases, children are placed under the care of juvenile correction facilities and shelters. This is in most cases the final effect if the family is broken down. And yes, I saw it in my work, in the practice of counseling before coming to the ministry, with reinforced, doubled or even multiplied intensity, I see it in the ministry, because here are all these cases, complaints, letters and trials of parents who often fight over children. And I also see this in the postulates for the future, the demands to change the law. As a spokesman, I will see to it that this new, I hope, law enters into force, and if it enters into force, To verify whether it helps in such situations. Now let's get to the bottom of this. It is important, among others. that full-family upbringing should be supported by the state. That's basic. If you can't do it anymore Because often the conflict between parents is too far-reaching, it is necessary for these parents to be able to talk to each other on this most important issue. If they don't make up about their relationship anymore, they have to make up for their kids. That's basic. Replacing parental consent with decisions does not have that effect. And that's why in the project that I was just talking about, the most important thing is to mediate, get parents to talk, convince them that these issues should be settled between them for the sake of the child. They need to see the child in the middle, they need to see that there is no right of parent to have a child, only the right of the child to meet, to be brought up by both parents. One such may be kazuistic, but the specific problem is that we have proposed a revision of the article. 58, which already allows for the so-called. alternate care, but it may not be very precise in the current formula. The proposed amendment will result in a court, for the institution, for the reader, even for the parent The possibility that follows directly from this provision. So that the two legal aspects that we have analyzed through life and professional experience... We have brought out the norm, the design, the recipe, which maybe, if not this year, in the future, will also go to the High House. And me, as a spokesperson, will remain verifying and perhaps analyzing whether this provision is producing results. Because raising both parents, the right to both parents, the right to a full family is one of the fundamental rights of the child. And that's what needs to be guarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u21	Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear candidate for the Ombudsman, I hope you realize... I'm here. [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Sorry.]] ...because a large number of non-governmental organisations dealing with the problems of the child are unfavorable to you and do not agree... I will not use the wording... or maybe use it: it is rebelling against your choice. I would therefore like to ask you whether, in addition to the general arguments you have made so far... you have been involved in your practice so far. And what success you have in this area or in reaching out to parents and children in relation to such matters as, for example, disability, poverty, homelessness, pedophilia, exclusion or alimony? It's just part of the topic, very broad. I can honestly say that I personally vote for you is the most disheartening thing about you being an official of the Ministry of Justice. I'm pointing out that I'm a clerk. And I imagine, just like many people who would like the child's problem to be taken up by an ombudsman at least at the same level as before, that this problem should be taken up by a person who has some experience, a practice that has come closer, like many clinical psychologists, children's clinical psychologists or psychologists running psychological clinics and having daily contacts with children and parents, which is not meaningless... I don't find it in your resume and in your dossier. How do you feel? Do your parents, people in Poland know you at all? Do you have any sympathy for those who know or simply appear to be an official in your business? Because such reservations and such doubts are expressed by NGOs. And I'd like you to operate on specifics, answering my questions about the contacts and the problems I've mentioned here, not the generals, as has been the case so far. That you know that you've read that they appear and so on. [[Senator, that's a very long question, or actually a statement.]] Well, I wanted to tell you not to ask questions, Mr. Marshal. [[Please specify the question to the end, because there is no discussion.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u23	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u24	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Point one, precise return to formal requirements of work for children and with children. The legislator did not specifically point out that it is mandatory to be acquainted with specific organisations, not with other non-governmental organisations. I have been working with NGOs for years, among others. through the so-called. The Justice Fund, which works for the most disadvantaged children, offers psychological, legal and therapeutic assistance. And there are a lot of organizations, dozens of organizations that have been providing this kind of assistance over the last few years from the fund I've managed. Whether they are known all over Poland, whether they are media, whether they exist fully in the same range as other organisations, in social media, I do not know because I do not know which organisations your senator is talking about. And a new issue that I may have to deal with in the next few days. And I'd love to do that with non-governmental organisations as such. This is not only apparent from the provisions of the Ombudsperson's Act, but it is due to full involvement in cooperation with NGOs, and this is from a wide spectrum of them. Here is perhaps the need to strengthen this cooperation, but it is absolutely not that there are no organizations that did not cooperate. The opinion of my assessment is left to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u25	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm actually continuing with what Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka said. I'd like to... In fact, do you, for example? Has he ever been home, where are the children mentally handicapd? Have you been to the rehabilitation centers of children with complications of all kinds? Were you in a children's hospice? Have you been to the juvie houses? You're the lawyer, and that's all you've told us... Well, it's so easy to deal with. But aren't you afraid that without this experience... Unless you tell me you know all these places, you visit, you see pain. I'd like to know how you're gonna behave with the children who went through the trauma of pedophilia. I would like to know how you will behave in situations where there is a serious debate on pedophilia in the Church. And now it's not in your resume, or I didn't see if you had any children. It's not important. That's just my question. I'm the grandfather. And another question. You're 38 years old. That's what your résumé says. It's a beautiful age. Tell me if you received the Cavalier Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland from the President. I read it in the media. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsperson on Children's Rights, Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: No.]] Then I'm sorry. Someone's putting it in your head. Well, then, no. Because if... [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: A very nice ceremony, but no.]] I'm so glad you haven't gotten it yet, because there's a chance for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u27	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, you listed several institutions, I didn't hear what the first institution was like. As for the hospice, the penitentiary, yes, I was. Do you want me to mention names? There are hospices in Łódź, where children are born in a very difficult state of health, to say the least. Kids after transitions in the penitentiary? Yes. Always the first place... Because correctional establishments and such institutions, youth educational centers, sociotherapy centers, which were previously, when there was such practice, are places where children with various problems go. Yes, I was, Mr. Senator. I was personally, repeatedly, under different circumstances, also in those, when these children were not diagnosed and introduced into this mode, at the very beginning, because this was often my role as the representative of this child, e.g. Abandoned. When it comes to pedophilia and whether or not I'm going to do my best, to say the least, all cases of this crime should be burned with white iron regardless of where they happen. And even working at the ministry... If there is evidence of such an event anywhere, immediately in the context of immediate cooperation, even before the official letter signed on paper had passed, a letter with an electronic signature was sent to law enforcement authorities and was watched from day to day, whether this degenerate is already covered and whether proceedings are initiated. So, ladies and gentlemen, with full involvement in this activity, I will participate. And as for the award, I haven't gotten any award yet, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u29	You're asking Senator Napieralski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Well, a few days ago, Szczecin Youth Council President Szymon Detko invited me to meet young people. These are extraordinary people, above average, very active, chosen for special advice, who want to do a little bit more than just go to school. Recently they were under the age of eighteen, today they are just a little over this age, they are adults, they can vote, they can make decisions for themselves. They gave me a very disturbing letter that concerns you. The letter is addressed to us parliamentarians, to the senators as well, and it is very critical of you. My question is, have you met young people, not only non-governmental organisations, but just young seymists, with young city councils, and have you talked to them about running for office, that you have a predisposition for this, that you would like to get involved in their affairs? They gave me this letter, but they gave me another... one, two, three... four pages of signatures: Youth Council of the City of Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Youth Council of the City of Lublin, Tychy, the seymikas of the Mazowieckie and Silesian Voivodeship, a lot of signatures of those who do not accept your candidacy. Doesn't that bother you? If you'd referred to it and said yes... Because they're very committed people, and I think it's pretty bad news for you to start with. [[Voice from the hall: They're rascals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your vote. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I don't know the contents of this letter, I'd like to get acquainted. If I'm invited somewhere, please believe me. I'll go anywhere. As I signaled before the committee, and as I have practiced so far, sometimes at night, as soon as I received a signal that something was happening somewhere, there is a need to meet or save in some situation, that's where I was going. So if young people see such a need, I will most certainly meet with it, because the advisory voice, the voice of the organization It is not only non-governmental, but it is from such social meetings that movements are of the utmost importance. To give an opinion, to take a stand, you need to listen to a few people, a few people involved. The job I was now involved in as a civil servant, as the senator noted... Yeah, I'm an official now, but I didn't get rid of the lawyer's toga, and I didn't get rid of that kind of thinking that's typical of a free profession that was taught me and in college, and by patrons. The point is, you have to listen. There is such an ancient paremia, still Roman: audiatur et altera pars. Listen to the voice of all sides, the other side, do not consider just one sentence. Because I'm not judgmental, I have to listen. So, if that voice gets to me, I'm sure I'll meet with these young people and listen to them. And I will certainly also implement many of their demands as a spokesman. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u33	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u34	I thought you'd continue. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. In fact, I will also refer to your comments on the role of the attorney you are. I have the impression that a lawyer doesn't represent a child, but an adult, and it often doesn't represent the child. The lawyer, as you seem to know, in the draft family code, proposed the current spokesperson for the rights of the child, while the government did not comment on this matter. You work at the Ministry of Justice. I'm sure there's a request for your opinion. Therefore, my question is: how do you see this role? Second question. And here I would like to strengthen this question that Senator Boris-Damięcka asked. Give me at least two examples of non-governmental organisations that have supported you and which will confirm that, of course. Please also give me examples. But also such concrete cooperation with non-governmental organisations, because so far it is as if you are using generalizations. You speak, for example. about the fund for the victims. But we have been looking at this fund for the benefit of the victims, and I must tell you that this fund is not always dedicated to the victims, but to others. I'd like to sign up... Unless you, Mr. Marshal, would allow me one more question... [[You can ask three questions, Senator. That's how they got it.]] Great. Have you been to Crystal? This is a women's penitentiary where women give birth and stay with them. What's your opinion here? Should these women be there with their children? Under what conditions? Do you think these children After birth, it serves to stay in a prison, behind bars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, maybe I'll start with Crystal. Okay? I wasn't at the Krzyszańc Penitentiary. No, I wasn't. However, as part of my activities, I was in a correctional facility, where there are still situations, perhaps... well, I won't say that more difficult, but equally demanding empathy and leaning on it. It's about situations where there are underage mothers with children. These issues still need to be clarified and regulated; there is a question of parental authority. At the same time, regulation on how child care should look when a mother is convicted and is in prison is largely left to the courts. And this to us, to you, should be at heart, so that your mother's relationship or your mother's relationship Criminal law was not an option when there is a child to care for. The relationship between the child and the mother is individual and should in any case be covered by the fullest empathy and there should be State action to maintain this care. The issue of two examples of non-governmental institutions. In this case, Dear Senator, High Izbo, some organizations have even asked not to disclose their data. If they wish to express their support publicly, they will express it. But I will tell you about one case that is publicly known, High Izbo, because it was even published. It's related to the fund. There is a foundation of the... We give the children strength and she annually, annually, with the fund... And it's hard to think of any axiological relationships with the ministry, connections between the ministry and the foundation. And at the same time, for many years it has been constantly organized in September a week of helping children. This year and in 2016 I was there with Minister Piebiak because the Minister of Justice, as in previous years, is constantly patronising it. I was also at this meeting last year, between Mr Michalak and Mr Bodnar. This year, too, this foundation received grants from the fund and this week, this meeting for the harmed children, organized. Does he support me? I don't know. I know we're dating, and we support these organizations as much as possible. Before 2015, there were only a dozen of them, maybe 20, maybe 30 organizations, and this year I think we've already exceeded the number of 100 organizations. Do they publish support information? I don't know. I'm not based on that. I know it's about basic work, working with every kid, working sometimes at night. 'Cause sometimes when it's time to go and save a family, mediate between parents, these institutions... I even remember when it was time to go and meditate between parents in Gdansk at night. We organized a meeting in a non-governmental organization, we brought in a mediator, a translator, so that parents could establish an agreement, for the first time after four years of a very serious process. And it worked. Since then there has been silence in the media about this case, because there is a settlement between these parents, meetings of children are held in this organization and in silence, because these children and this matter need silence. And then, the first question... It was about the role of a lawyer. I recall that the project in this case was presented. And although the project is very broad, it concerns very many institutions of family law, so that it took the form of a code... I disagree with many institutions or proposals as a lawyer, but this element of a lawyer for the child and institutionalization of this element, as I recall, supported. Another issue is whether this has taken the form of a legal standard. It hasn't taken on so far. But the institution itself, the idea itself, maybe to extort the activity of such a person from the already existing rules, which is also possible and acceptable... In fact, as a lawyer, I'm able to prove it. And, Mrs Senator, ladies and gentlemen, in this respect, I would support such an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u37	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u38	Thank you very much. Sir, every once in a while in public space, there are so-called. abortion or anti-abortion projects. There was a project to save women, there was a project to stop abortion... Do you believe that this subject, which these projects address, namely the protection of human life, is in the area of the Ombudsman's actions or not? And if you think it is, what will be your possible actions and steps on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I mentioned this topic during the committee's deliberations and of course... I will say this as a lawyer: the Act on the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child is the only legal act in Poland on the rank of the Act, which indicates when life begins. And to what extent is this protection for the child to be exercised by the Ombudsman? From conception. So, by looking at the rules, what are they? That's what I said two weeks ago. It is necessary to accept, and I take this position, that since both the Constitution and the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child are later before the Law on family planning and those exemptions, when abortion is permitted... They as later acts, while still protecting life for me as spokesperson, have the primacy. Of course, for the time being, there is a law which is mentioned, among other things, in the legal trade. in the request of a group of Members to the Constitutional Tribunal. On the legal side, we should wait for the Court to decide, because there may be a conflict. For me a conflict of laws about the rank of regulations... Because as here as a spokesman, you protect your life from conception to natural death... until you're 18 years old. Because that's the law, I'm sorry if there's any other law that violates this right to life? So that in this respect - Like I said. I'm sure I won't get rid of my views and speak against them. However, it is important how the law should apply to this. As a spokesperson Yes, I will pay attention to certain aspects that may not have been noticed so far. Unfortunately, this is also the case, I noticed this by examining the rules and preparing for the speeches. As the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, this is probably the only case of exclusion, I will not be able to take part as a party in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal because the request to examine the constitutionality of these provisions was an initiative of Members, not of the Ombudsman. And only in cases such as the Ombudsman's initiative, in children's matters, in general cases, can the Ombudsman present the rights of the child. In other cases, already related to an individual constitutional complaint, yes, I can, but unfortunately not in this case. This may require some legislative initiative on the Ombudsman's and the Constitutional Tribunal's laws. The question of protecting life and defending the right to life from conception will certainly be taken care of and I support it unambiguously.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u41	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u42	I'd like to ask you another question... I'm sure your candidacy is surprising. There are so many authorities in this area, so many fantastic people, including the camp of law and justice, including the senators, Members, that the question arises. And you must have asked yourself, I'm sure you know the answer. What's the reason you were chosen? What did those who offered you justify that your candidacy was so distinguished from so many other authorities and people involved with a great deal of work? That's the first question. Two. I'm talking about education reform. There's a rise in protest... This time joined the Solidarity Party. What is your attitude towards this reform that has destroyed the achievements of junior high schools and reduced the chances of young people in small towns that have only been left with primary schools today? Let's call it that. There's no higher education in them since there's no secondary school. And what is your view on the implementation of children's rights with special educational needs in schools? How do you feel about this system, for example, in the light of recent developments published by ombudsman Michalak? What should we do there? Finally, what is your opinion on the activity of anti-vaccine movements?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, why me? I can only assume. These are my assumptions. First of all, it's an honor. Why me? Perhaps my work was effective. Not only individually, either to the ministry or earlier, to my practice, but also to the parliamentarians, and from all sides, of all political options, they asked for help with some difficult matter. I'm not allowed to talk about these things because they're classified, they're confidential, they're very severe... Perhaps the fact that I managed to help many people in some empathetic way convinced the applicants. But I don't really know. That's a question for applicants, Senator. As for the reform of education, protests and junior high school achievements, I'm going to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, many decades before the war there was middle school and then they were eliminated. I was educated before 1999, i.e. before the reform came into force. Back then, there was an 8th-grade primary school and a 4th-grade high school. Education, I hope, I got a good one. And the question of whether the system should be with middle school or not... at this point, I'm not going to make that assessment, and it's not my role either. My role is that, in the current legal system, after a huge organisational reform, it may not cause so much something, but indicate all the places that are so in every great institution, perhaps infirm. And in this respect, as a spokesperson... We hear that parents write to the child's attorney many times. We're pointing to family and upbringing here. With a request to relieve children in some way. It's about changeability, the amount of lessons asked, the content of the programs. And in this respect, as I pointed out already at the committee meeting and before the High Sejm, I will also intervene. I will pay attention to where perhaps this system needs to be improved. I'll work in that direction. About the third question, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u45	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Can I ask you a question? Am I to understand, Minister, that you have no opinion on what today brings education reform for children? I think the kids are getting hurt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u46	Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u47	Thank you very much. I moved on to the next question. I tried to answer as much as possible about education reform. As far as the opinion on anti-vaccine movements is concerned, the last few weeks, months show that the case is clear. Anti-vaccine movements have been strengthening for some time and have tried even in legislative mode to carry out their demands. But life shows that these are incorrect postulates. Thanks to vaccination, society is healthier, there are no major epidemics of very serious diseases. And that should be kept. Legislative ideas on how to somehow lift the vaccine obligation are unacceptable. In this respect, I'm being clear. Another issue here is to verify certain things, but it is already medical professionals who need to deal with how to possibly prevent various complications. These are individual cases. In every field, there are such things. Thank you very much. [[One more question, Mr. Spokesman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u48	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u49	I'll just remind you of that question. I meant how you assess the situation of children with special educational needs and what you think should be done urgently in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u50	Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u51	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, because I wrote it down at one point. In the whole society, in these hundreds of thousands... of these over 3 million students, of course, there are individual cases that go into hundreds or even thousands, where non-standard educational methods have to be applied. I don't know if I'm going in the right direction because that's what the senator didn't say, but maybe it's the so-called one. Individual teaching is out-of-school. There are cases where it should be used. Here you should certainly these parents, because parents are the first instance, so I will say in law, to diagnose and ask for an opinion whether such things should be implemented, introduced, and if so, applied with the help of other institutions... In this respect, therefore, it will be necessary to consult as much as possible, to collect and help all these cases, so that education and education, including after-school education, will continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u52	Now you're asking Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u53	Thank you kindly. I'd like to ask you this. I hear you are in favour of such a solution, and even in an active way you have acted on the revision of the penal code to reduce the age of criminal liability of children aged 13 to 10. Please kindly deny it or justify such a position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, I have condemned this false information, even fake news, a few minutes after the committee meeting in the Sejm. In the ministry, or at least as director of the Department of Family and Minority Affairs, I do not know about it, there was and there is no project that would change the criminal code on the criminal liability of children and reduce age from 13 to 10. It is acceptable to recall that the criminal code, which is not changed in this respect, states that the criminal liability is borne by the person who commits a prohibited act at the age of 17, and in the case of particularly cruel crimes, there is a catalogue, they are enumeratively mentioned, this applies to juveniles, minors who are over the age of 15, and nothing changes in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u56	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Counselor! I'll go back to education. I do not want to decide and discuss, because this is actually a discussion on a completely different topic, about what is better, 4+8 or any other option. I am interested in your view of the functioning of primary school education. Do you, as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, see the problems that occur there today? And if you can see it, it's what it is. And I would also ask for an indication, so for today, without a thorough analysis of what action you see as an advocate to take in this regard. That's the first question. And the other. I'm going back to NGOs. In my view, one of the foundations of the functioning of institutions such as the Ombudsman is cooperation with non-governmental organisations. To whom should they appeal when they see problems? I'm here to see the spokespersons right now. Tell me what non-governmental organisations you have worked with so far. If you could say so, by name, a few, two, three, four, five, if there were any... And if not, please say no, it wasn't, it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I will refer to the question that has been raised. I have two sons, yes, I have two sons at school. One is 6 years old, which means he goes to a zero and the other is 8 years old and goes to the third grade. It is clear that, in many aspects of the Ombudsman's activity, he needs to be consulted and heard by many voices, as in medical matters, and probably also in educational matters. As far as the educational problems that I'm diagnosing are concerned, they overlap to a large extent... Things like that. A heavy bag or perhaps individual, some local reload program, we can even feel individually in our own lives. Well, today I was carrying my son's quite heavy backpack into the car, and I was wondering why he was heavier than my computer bag that I was carrying to the ministry. So that in these problems, also noticed by the Ombudsman, Mr Mark Michalak, who, in his annual report on the state of the child's rights, highlighted many aspects of the right to education... I'm gonna go in that direction, too, and I'm gonna verify it all. I am reviewing the documents here, ladies and gentlemen, because I was still reading these issues this morning. I would aim to leave the children some time off after school, so that they do not spend all their time when they come back from school only on homework, but also have some free time. These are aspects that will certainly have to be addressed. They must also be taken into account in the regulation of school programmes, in the field of such institutions. As far as NGOs are concerned, it's like I've been signaling. If these institutions consider it appropriate to speak, they will say so. I didn't get such signals that I was authorized to invoke them. I know that a few organizations have asked me questions, but I thought that the first ones who have the right to know my views and my activities are parliamentarians. This is what we've been trying to do over the last few weeks, because it's a country. It follows from the provisions of the Law that they have the right to be the first to know and assess these arguments. That's why I acted like this. And if those institutions consider it appropriate, such letters of support We've already heard about the lack of support. I'm sure they'll be presented. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u60	Yes? [[Can I...]] ...excuse me? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u61	Minister, I'm not asking... [[Voice from the courtroom, Counselor.]] Mr. Counselor... That's what my friends tell me. This may be more convenient in this legal situation. I'm not asking who you're going to take your first steps to or if you're hoping for the support of the parliamentarians. I'm asking you how you've been preparing for this serious function, your life experience so far, which NGOs you've been with so far. No matter what you've been doing, He's been cooperating. [[It's all clear.]] If you could name two or three of these institutions, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u62	Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u63	I'll tell you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As I said, we give the Children the Force, for sure, was an institution that was publicly active and which I can invoke undisputedly. There were other institutions, but I won't... Excuse me, but... [[I forgive you.]] ...was asking us not to give you some information... [[Voices from the hall: Why?]] They don't want to reveal themselves... [[But it's a shame?]] ...because they work for the children individually. And I respect that, just like I respected... [[...in the underground.]] ...to ask the High House to be the first institution to see my candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Just like in the KRS, they work, but they're ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u64	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Dear Sir, I would like to refer to one of the first questions that Senator Szymański raised regarding the so-called. alternate care or alternate care. I've been getting signals from a few places that this kind of care often... Well, she may provide comfort for both parents, but at the same time causes great discomfort in children, especially in situations where parents break up in uncomfortable situations when there is no amicable handling of matters. Then the baby is such a moving ball. If this replacement care is treated equally, it is moved from place to place. This kid doesn't have a home then, there's no place to hang out. ♪ In my mind ♪ And I'm a person with many years of experience, including parenting and grandmothering, it's a bad solution. So I'm asking how you could be, so to speak, a child's attorney in this matter. What should such replacement care look like? How can we arrange this differently than before? And it often happens that one of the parties has an argument not to pay alimony by covering himself with this alternate care. So it's a deeper matter. It seems to give parents the right to decide the fate of their children, but the child, in my mind, makes them unhappy. What is your opinion on this subject, and how can this problem be solved, knowing such a little tardiness of the courts, staff shortages, say, of psychologists who are not always fully responsible? This is, in my opinion, a rather serious problem. It may be small, but it is. And the second thing, so broad. I would like to ask you if you will work on developing, implementing a national strategy against violence against children. This is the subject that has been coming back for some time, which the government is not looking too kindly at. What is your position on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u66	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u67	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, as to the statement that the separation and the conflict of parents make the child unhappy, I will be the first to sign off on this. It's obvious. As to what I was talking about in response to Senator Szymański's question about the introduction of the so-called clarification provisions. alternate care, that's it. above all, only the power of the court. It's not a duty, it's a right. Because a family court in every individual case decides in a manner consistent with the welfare of the child, it has to settle it. And it's not always in line with the baby's welfare that it's gonna be like that ping-pong ball. Here I would like to draw the attention of the High House and the senator to what we have been working on by drawing up provisions that we may have the opportunity to implement. We have analysed the rules in other countries. Well, experience, gathering votes is very important, because not always the first idea is the best. And what does it turn out to be? In Italy, there is a rule that this child is in one place and parents are to move. Another example: Ireland. That's where parents won't get divorced if they have underage children. I'm not talking about other situations when children are grown up or when there are no children. They're not going to get divorced, and even if they go, he's not gonna be judged if they don't get their first period, even, I guess, four years, so they're gonna figure out that the baby and babysitting are the most important thing. It's a buffer period before the divorce. And now the issue of dilemma: what to bring here, how to present the idea to the government, to the parliament to decide. As I said, alternate care in this formula that we are proposing... What we are talking about here is merely an emphasis on possibilities, and at the same time it is left to us, as we all know, to the third power, to the judges, to the courts on which this difficult duty to settle What in this situation will be the welfare of the child, where it is. Or in the middle, like a ball? Or is it just that on paper it says that one parent's court restricts parental authority, and in fact the child meets him without problems, and only on paper is it written that he has limited parental authority because the child is with the other parent? At the same time, I point out that the rules that have been in force for several years now allow the possibility, if there is an agreement between parents, to leave both parents' parental powers to the courts in the event of a conflict. That's why this issue... I agree with the senator as much as possible on alternate care, on making the child unhappy and on the need to seek the best possible solution. But this matter is left to the courts. And from the perspective of the Ombudsman, it is in those most difficult cases, which are probably hundreds, and in the Ombudsman's office, and now in the ministry... The role of the Ombudsman is that he may even act as a party to such proceedings and, now as a child's attorney, stand in the middle and say: veto, I agree with you, parents, I do not agree, please judge in such a way that this child is on a pedestal. And even in a case like this, right now, the spokesperson... And here I'm trying to interpret the presence of a child's attorney from another existing law. The role of the spokesperson is now the role of the child's lawyer. And the second question about developing a national strategy against violence against children. I have analyzed, Dear Senator, High Izbo, the Ombudsman's speeches and answers so far, it seems, the Minister of the Family. At the same time, I examined from the institutions and regulations that are already in force, or basically already existing legislation, starting with criminal law, from the law on anti-violence in the family. After all, there the family is included as a whole, but in fact, an article. 12a protects the child in special situations and gives the possibility to prohibit the child in the event of a risk of his life, safety and health Some aspects are taken into account. As for the existing legislation, I believe that the correct application of... And from my perspective, from the point of view of practice, the lawyer is that I've often stepped into cases when everyone else has said enough, when others have drawn up the case, locked the file in court and put it on the shelf. That's when I started working and looking between institutions, whether someone screwed up, maybe ILOS or GOPS, or maybe the probation officer didn't do enough or maybe the crime that happened wasn't reported. So here's the question of whether to call it a national strategy or just show people, people, institutions that these laws are already there, only everyone together should apply them at a given time. Perhaps this initiative will also be needed. So I'm going to answer that question like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u68	Now you're asking Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u69	Thank you very much. I have two short questions. I'd like to ask you to answer these questions. Were you a member of the party? What associations did you belong to or belong to? Have you ever competed on a list of any party in the elections to the local government or the Sejm? Next question. I'd like to ask you who approached you... who offered you to run for office, run for office as a child's attorney. And the third question. I'm just gonna let it expand a little bit. I've been tracking your activity as a department director at the Ministry of Justice. And there one of your main activities in the last year before the municipal elections was driving around Poland and handing over equipment financed by the Justice Fund to firefighters This is its short name, because this fund is really called the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. Dear Ombudsman, this was a loud case. He also addressed the Ombudsman to the Ministry of Justice. You have made the electoral programme of Solidarna Polska for 100 million, by handing over the equipment financed from this fund, which, in fact, sir, should go to the aid of the victims and others. I'm not talking about the money going there anymore, for example. For the foundation of the Lux Veritatis, for the media school in Toruń, that money went even to CBA, for operational expenditure, although the CBA should only be financed under the budget. I'd like you to tell me about it. Because really, there are plenty of pictures of you here, as you do with politicians of Solidarna Polska, Law and Justice handing this equipment over to firefighters. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with the victims, the victims, the post-penitentiary aid. There's no excuse for that. Tell me how much of this fund has gone into this kind of help. Or maybe as a child-friendly person, you can tell us how much of this fund went to help, for example. children of prisoners, prisoners, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, I'll start from the beginning. I've never been, and I'm not, and I hope I'm not gonna be part of any party so far. As for the election, I didn't run for office. One time I was a town councilman... I represented a civic agreement, a local initiative in Łódź. As for associations, I belong to the association of graduates of the Faculty of Law, Canon Law and the administration of KUL and to the association of canonists operating also at KUL. These are associations I'm a member of. I am, of course, a member of the Łódź Bar Association as a lawyer at the so-called. A passive entry and I'm not doing my lawyer's job. As for the Justice Fund, yes, this year I was in several places in Poland... Last year, I think it's this time. At the end of November, the Minister of Justice announced the recruitment of voluntary fire services for the programme from the Justice Fund in early December. Well, since that's a question, I'm gonna ask you to accept some information about this fund right away. In the case of the Fund for Assistance and Post-Proposal Assistance It's a long name that even the courts have sometimes been wrong. after last year's reform, it is possible to transfer money that is taken from criminals, because it is money from criminals, to a wider extent. victims of crimes. Post-penitentiary assistance is a department supported by money that prisoners earn in prisons. The money we collect from criminals must be passed on to the victims. So far, only NGOs have done this, and dozens of it. By 2015... a dozen who knew about this fund. In the public space, the fund did not exist to a significant extent until 2015. Moreover, by 2015, the fund's revenues were not very high. From the moment the Minister entrusted me with taking care of the fund, i.e. Since 2016, the revenue of the fund has increased tenfold. The Minister wanted this money to actually go directly to the victims of crimes. After last year's reform, we created an opportunity. not only the transfer of funds to non-governmental institutions This money can also be transferred to institutions in the public finance sector. This year we have passed over PLN 100 million And that's what I've been looking at. To more than 2 000 400 municipalities, and to Poland we have probably 2 000 municipalities 472. So 2,000 400 municipalities of all political options joined the selection process. With my uncles, mayors or presidents from most of these 2,000 400 municipalities I personally signed contracts to improve the performance of the task. The money was supposed to go to over 10,000 volunteer firefighters. Why them? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the victimization of the crime, the one from which the money comes... These are multiple crimes. Practically in the case of most offences in the criminal code, either mandatoryly or optionally, the courts rule on benefits to the fund. Therefore, in the case of victims of most crimes, this money must be transferred. On the one hand, NGOs that have so far... Nearly a hundred such organisations seem to have been supported by the fund in an amount of up to PLN 30 million this year. From next year it will be more than PLN 300 million for non-governmental organisations providing assistance to children and families, psychological, legal and therapeutic assistance, which is needed immediately. It will be over PLN 300 million, and this year there will be over PLN 30 million. And the firefighters. More than 100 million. Why firefighters? Because firefighters... forgive the casuistics, High Izbo, Mr. Marshal, but this year, so to speak, he's put some information into my head and I can sum it up now. Much of the trips, the intervention of firefighters, are not trips to fires, but to various other events, and most of them are traffic offences. Accident is a traffic felony, if there's a damage over seven days... And if there isn't, it's a misdemeanor, but there's a damage, too, and you have to help the victim so he doesn't die. This medical emergency equipment, especially rescue bags, defibrillators, save lives many times, including children. Together with General Leszek Suski, we reviewed the list of equipment and indicated that the equipment to rescue children in road accidents, these children must immediately get help... There'll also be a psychologist, a lawyer in a while. But there, at the scene of the accident, these children must survive. And this help for over 100 million zlotys from this fund... Yes, it may not be directly related to my activities as a family lawyer, but as a lawyer who dealt with criminal law and cared about helping the victims with some empathy. This was very widely and very well accepted, because among the 2 000 400 municipalities that received grants, there was probably no dissatisfied, regardless of the political option, because all the municipalities received grants. That was my duty, and I was able to do it on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u72	Now the question is... [[I'm sorry, I just...]] You're trying to tell me, aren't you? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u73	Yes, I want to say, because you didn't answer my question. Mr. Ombudsperson, everyone would really be pleased if they got this equipment, especially before the election. However, I would like to ask you to answer the question of who proposed to you to apply for the Ombudsman's position because you did not answer that question. It's also about how much money from this Justice Fund went to the kids. Please, if you don't mind my answering more carefully, because you've been taking care of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u75	I've been approached by a parliamentary club. I thanked you for that and thank you. Seeing this activity at the root, casuistic, in particular cases that have arisen, also from other organisations, institutions. So here... [[Excuse me, but what club and what person?]] So that's the line. And now the question of how much money has been transferred specifically to children. Forgive me that I do not remember this in respect of the zloty, but even formally speaking, since June, to a significant extent, I no longer deal with the fund due to other obligations There was so much for this assistance for non-governmental, legal, psychological, therapeutic assistance, helping to find a place to live, to supplement the bills, even to help with the fees for the kindergarten or for the stay of the child... or for a woman who, in fact, was a victim of abuse with her children. And victimisation under this fund, ladies and gentlemen, we understand quite widely, because from the formal, criminal side of the victim in such a situation, the abuse will be a woman and maybe she will act as a criminal aid prosecutor, but if she has escaped from the perpetrator, then the victims are also children. And such children also received funds, also received clothes, and received various benefits and vouchers from this fund. It was for almost PLN 30 million this year, such grants have been transferred. And since 2019 there will be over PLN 300 million for the following years... Thank you very much. [[Yet...]] [[Now... is there anything else?]] [[I was still asking about CBA. How much for what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the topic of the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Justice Fund, please forgive me, but I will only use media knowledge and one that can be communicated publicly here. I know as much as you do, because this part was reserved, classified, and therefore I didn't... I know it was, I guess, 25 million zlotys. This was in line with the rules, supported by the legal opinions of outstanding lawyers, financiers. And I can't give you any more information because I don't have any either.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u76	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Lady-Later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Sir, you have partially responded to my doubts, speaking of the so-called. Switching care, but you didn't answer completely. I'm just having a fresh chat with the probation officers we're going to be debating in the Senate probably in the near future, and I know from them that the situation of children is difficult, maybe even harder. What's paradoxical? Not in pathological families, but in so-called. families of decent people. What's this all about? It's not always about physical violence, it's about mental violence. Children are simply torn between parents who are suing each other, who spend heavy money on lawyers who invoke witnesses of people with questionable morale. And the baby's a bargaining chip in this mess. What will you do in such a situation as to protect children's welfare? How did he test the behavior of such parents? Will that also be your responsibility? I understand this is very difficult, but how will you do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, High Izbo, this is what I do when it comes to individual matters, and these are the things that often do not go outside, are not known to the public, are not on the front pages of the newspapers or are not the subject of Twitts, unless parents want to make each other pinches and such information is given to the public. As a spokesman, as I have signaled and as is apparent from the provisions of the Act, I can approach any case, even on my own initiative, and especially when one of the parties sees that, as the senator noted, a child is a bargaining chip or a child is even worked by one of the parents, because it is often prepared to act against another parent. These are individual cases. If there are such signals, I will simply proceed to such matters individually. Perhaps I will suggest, and I will urge, what is also in line with the demands of the curators with whom we work in the Ministry, that it is necessary to introduce, support mediation solutions, which are more difficult, to explain to parents that the conflict between them has a negative impact on the child. Because there could actually be a baby with the so-called. A good home, with quite wealthy parents, can basically have the 2 latest mobile phones, because each parent will get a better one, and in fact it will be misbehaved. So that individual matters will be very much in my heart, because this is what I know from the practice of lawyering, ministerial. And I know that this work at the foundation and explaining to individual parents, perhaps affecting mentality, pointing out what relationships between us adults should look like, because we have supposedly formed worldview and methods of upbringing... Well, the point is to make their kids better this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u80	You're asking Senator Napieralski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First question. I'd like to continue with Senator Augustine's statement. What do you have, or what kind of actions you're going to implement, specifically concerning students and third-grade students? Well, because the yearbooks are really gonna come together and there's gonna be a big problem. Here, in fact, the rights of the child will be very much strained and threatened. What do you have in mind? And my second question. I'm going to go back to my previous statement on the youth letter. Well, when the senators ask you about any organizations that support you, you say they don't want to tell you or they don't want to make out. Most of the youth advice by name signed under a letter that's against you. Like I said, these are very active, unusual, open groups, and yet you have them against each other. Don't you think it was bad that it was bad that you didn't really meet these young people before the vote, and you didn't convince them of yourself? The letter that these young people wrote came out on December 7th, which means it's been a while, and yet you haven't been able to meet them. If you are saying that you recommended or asked to stand before us here, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, then you should be given this letter because all the senators, all the parliamentarians, have received this letter. You should get a letter like this, a letter from young people who are most interested in what you're going to do. How would you like to comment on that? How are you gonna deal with that? What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Sir Senator, I didn't get a letter. I found out about him today. So I will repeat what I said in the first statement: I invite you to talk. My contact details are known, they're widely available. If I am positively recommended by the High House, I will be more familiar with this letter and ask for information and a meeting. I'd like you to come from this podium right now. And besides, I wasn't, I guess, the recipient of the letter because the letter wasn't addressed to me, so I couldn't get to know him. The issue of the recurring theme of education reform and the combined yearbooks. Yes, it will, of course, be a significant ailment when 2 yearbooks coincide and suddenly, instead of 350 000 children on one educational level, there will be almost 700 thousand children. This is a great challenge for all of us, but that doesn't mean we have to contest it and just criticize it. We have to make this a task because it's a great task. It went as light as possible for these children. So that I ask for help, for advice, what we can do, what solutions to suggest that this task should be done as best as possible, because the reform is, the reform is ongoing, and since September there will be these combined yearbooks and we have to deal with it. Please help me, I will gladly use the ideas. And what solution we're going to take, time will tell. There's still time for us to take the best possible solution. However, from the purely technical and administrative side of school buildings there was as much for the needs of children as there is. This is just a matter of organizing individual classes, vintages, and the cubature itself, so to speak, is a constans, adapted to the number of children everywhere as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u84	Now you're asking Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u85	Thank you. I have two questions. The first question about your attitude to the in vitro method, the question arising from this... what are you going to do after you're elected as an ombudsman for the rights of the child, for the issue of insulting terms that stigmatize children conceived by the in vitro method? Often on a wave of heith in certain environments, they are said to be children with furrow or retarded children. Parents of children conceived by this method stand up for their children. This is also a challenge for the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. What are you going to do to defend the dignity of these children? That's the first question. The second question concerns pedophilia in the church. Because of your education and your career, you have an extensive and spectacular career. You can say, "Oh, my God, it's amazing." The knowledge of the mechanisms of functioning of the Church or churches. Prosecution is also a task of the Ombudsman. So what are you going to do, what steps are you going to take to limit and fight the phenomenon of pedophilia in the church? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u86	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, as to the in vitro method, this was the first topic The fact that there is no regulation in general and that some local authorities introduce different regulations to promote this method or any other method indicates that this is an existing problem. The question, like the senator, was polite to point out... Taking care of the dignity of the child conceived in this way. And what I signaled, what comes from the worldview, from education, from faith, is one thing. What's the law is the second. But it has to be combined as much as possible for the sake of... This applies not only to children conceived and born, but also to this dignity, children conceived and unborn, e.g. Frozen They're children, too, because they're conceived. And in this respect, we should look at this method in such a way that although it is probably an effective method of conception of children, however, it causes many children to come into the world. I'll be right with you to protect them. However, this from the legal and moral side is a wicked method, because in the case of a significant number of conceptions it causes that conceived human beings, conceived children are not sufficiently protected. And at the same time, going to the second part of the matter presented by your senator, to this wave of heyt, to the speech... From conception ♪ Like I said ♪ Human dignity is to be protected. And every signal like that. As in the case of pedophilia and anything else, it will be examined by me immediately and to the extent that I can, by launching any authority, including law enforcement, or even instructing the parties who experience such a thing... And regardless of the issue of this conceived child, which maybe is frozen somewhere, this born child, who goes to a school that is educated and who knows that it was conceived in such a way, has the same identical right as any other child to be protected by me as an advocate. And he's gonna get it. If this requires instruction that there are methods to protect personal goods, to present such advice to the proper authorities, it will receive personal and personal assistance from me. As for pedophilia, whether in the Church or not, there are various institutions that touch children... Now it's a very loud topic. Like I said, this disgusting crime must be burned to white with iron. That's it. [[How?]] How? That's what law enforcement is for. By the way, ecclesiastical institutions within their structure have to deal with this and as far as I know... I'm not a spokesman here in any way. ...I am not authorized to do this or perform any role, because, ladies and gentlemen, since I have resigned from my practice, I also have no contact with the institutions of church courts. However, my point is that this institution, the Church, and probably other institutions are now trying to signal this problem as much as possible, in my opinion. The last meetings of the bishops also confirmed that this would not be tolerated, that it would be shown. Besides, last year's amendments to criminal law are also moving in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u88	The question is Senator Mikołajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies, the safety of children and young people is a priority. Children are exposed to many dangers today. It seems extremely important to me to eliminate threats in cyberspace. In the Senate, the Senate Children and Youth Safety Team was established in the Virtual World. Hence my question: what are you going to do as a spokesman in the context of the safety of children and young people in cyberspace? That's one thing. And the other. Please tell me... The subject has already moved here, and it is extremely important. It's parental alienation as violence. Many senators have already raised the subject of parental alienation here today. I would very much like to ask for concrete solutions that you would suggest in the context of combating this violence, this parental alienation and alien aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, regarding the cyber security and general safety of children in the field of media transmission This is very often the case, among other things. pornography and such content, which is now widely available. And that's what I signaled during the session of the Sejm Committee. I signaled that fighting among others. universal access to pornography for children will be one of my priorities. The question is how to do this. The Senators' initiative in this area is very valuable and valuable. It can be requested to expand in these areas, to use other countries' solutions in order to limit such situations with full availability to some threats on the Internet. The self-regulation of operators should be encouraged, for example. This is the case in the UK, where you should use a credit card to access certain content. And this, without introducing additional rules, caused operators to limit themselves, i.e. to introduce certain rules. Getting a credit card alone means making it difficult, and then it's difficult for children too. And we know that with cybersecurity against universal access e.g. To the laptop... In fact, we all experience that a little child has solved the nuances or the tablet or the phone sooner after we bring it home from the store than we have. This is common knowledge, which is why we need to protect ourselves here through various kinds of initiatives. And of course that initiative I was talking about. Perhaps the introduction of rules such as in the UK on the self-limiting of operators will already be a big step in this direction. And I will insist on paying attention to these issues to the institutions that are responsible, and to the executive authority, the Ministry of Digitization, and perhaps also to you, as parliamentarians, who will legally express these issues in some time. Mr. Senator's second question about helping with this expansion and harming parental alienation. The very concept of parental alienation has been accepted for a situation where one parent in a way that violates not only the rules, but for example. Finding out if there are any agreements makes it difficult for a child to communicate with another parent. Commonly taken This is also the request of some organisations That this is violence, sometimes a more devastating child than even a physical one, which I do not support and which should be criminalized. But it is these solutions that have occurred in the project that are concrete. An emphasis, especially for the judicial authority, a rule that was, and which was not widely known... So it is that sometimes too long a recipe causes the idea of what it carries to fade away. And we simplified that recipe. Besides, we already know after external, inter-ministerial consultations, during which judges' associations and non-governmental institutions spoke, that this solution is going in the right direction. We have simplified it so that it can be applied by the institutions of justice. First of all, because there are these most difficult issues to disseminate knowledge about him. So that this is a concrete solution that I hope will soon become the law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u91	Thank you. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's calendar winter, but we also have demographic winter. 20 years ago in Poland the population of children was over 10 million, today it is just over 7 million. But despite the fact that the number of children is falling very radically, the number of children in different forms of foster care is not decreasing. The same as it was 20 years ago, is today, despite the fact that the number of children, the population of children In short, this number of children is stabilizing in various forms of care. We have made these forms of care very professional and we have changed them for the better, in the sense of a more family system. And that brings me great satisfaction. But my dissatisfaction is that the number of children is not decreasing, and this is globally about 70,000 children in various forms of care. And that makes me very unhappy. I think that can be changed. I believe that in this sense this system needs to be changed. And I'm sure that's where you need to see it. Do you see that? Will you have any suggestions in this regard? And is it such a concern about stabilising this system at a very high level when it comes to the number of children that are there, despite the fact that in recent years we have created a new competition... The profession of family assistant has arisen, and its representatives are already many thousands. These workers are very many, but this does not result in the reduction that we promised ourselves. So there's definitely a field for action here. Will the Ombudsman take up this challenge and can we count on cooperation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Senator, High Izbo, the problem of foster care, foster care is perceived as such, because this is one of the elements that is also in the area of supervision of court proceedings now under way, and in principle, such cases are based on courts, even in these thousands of cases... The issue is, of course, the scale that has decreased in the case of demography and the status quo remains in the case of children. The important issue from my perspective and from the perspective of what I am analysing is, in particular, to remind everyone who is in the foster care system that the primary task of foster care is to bring the child back to the natural family. This is a basic task, and in many cases This job isn't done because the baby's in some kind of care... Half of poverty, if it's a family foster care, worse if it's institutional. Of course, I don't generalize, but it happens very often that working with a natural family isn't enough. And that's what you need to be reminded of. As I recall the homes of a little child in whom a visit grabs his heart and squeezes his heart very hard... They should, in my opinion, be eliminated in the coming years. Little children, babies shouldn't be in institutional foster care. We have enough foster families throughout Poland. It's like they don't overlap with where the children's homes are. Children should be in foster homes, not foster homes. Therefore, my cooperation in this area will lead to the reminder that foster care is in order to restore the proper family activity in the field of upbringing. That's once. Two. The institution of the assistant you mentioned requires, you can say, the restoration, the strengthening of authority, because it is a helping institution, acting as if next door and sometimes without a probation officer. It's an institution that's supposed to help the family get back to normal. And that's what people need to be reminded of. This institution needs to be supported as much as possible, because its proper activity causes the child to be in his natural family all the time, to be helped. This is one of the elements that as director... When some cases came to us, I would analyze them from this side, see which organ, family office did or didn't do. And it turns out everyone was actually doing something, but not at the same time. It wasn't coordinated. The work of an assistant with the work of ILOS, GOPS, with the work of a probation officer, with the work of the court must be coordinated. And there must immediately be cooperation with social services institutions in the financial sense. It must be coordinated, and knowledge must be universal. Perhaps we need some tutorials, support, training. I will support it as much as I can to restore value to these institutions. And all for the sake of the children, so that they can return to their families as often as possible, who are already on the right track, and grow up there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to know your position on the record in the family code and the custody code. It's a record banning the use of physical punishment. Do you think it's necessary, or do you think it's unnecessary? And if, once you've become a spokesperson... You know, we've seen things in this room before. There was a vote, and right before the vote, it turned out that the candidate had fallen. It's a little relaxed. I would like to ask you if you envisage any extension of this record. I'm talking about combating mental violence. These are also quite common situations. That's the first line. Now here's the second point I'd like to ask you. I also want to express my concern, because you really are a civil servant now. Right? You've been a clerk for three years, a clerk with a line of government, and I understand you had to identify yourself as a good clerk with all of this. Don't you think your independence in the position of spokesperson will be a little threatened in this situation? Another question, the ones that ask us as senators our voters and not just voters. I'm sure you've heard that question before, but I'd like you to address it. You're here. Today, a lawyer in the Łódź District Bar Association, inactive, I think that's what it's called, an inexorable profession. But if you become a spokesperson... Don't you see the contradictions here? Whether to include a control function is a question of certain environments You should not, however, withdraw from the profession. Or would you like to be removed from the barrister's corporation? And that's the last thing I need to do to dispel all of mine and not just my doubts. Whether there have been proceedings against you as a lawyer in the past, or if there have been complaints against you, and if the evil languages that speak there are spreading rumors... Was there anything going on in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u96	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! About whether or not I'm a clerk... Yeah, I'm a clerk, it's kind of formal now, but I'm a lawyer all the time, and I'm kind of so rude... Perhaps otherwise: my nature is inexcusable, which in the ministry has been noticed many times, and this nature, it seems, I have so deeply instilled that I will not get rid of it. So much for my independence. So that's the answer to that question. As for the punishments of the flesh, the provision is clear, clear, not requiring too far-reaching interpretation. It simply shows that physical punishment is unacceptable. I agree, and that's the way it's gonna be. As for mental violence and its possible expression in normal, I will say that the essence of the law is also that it is not too casuistic. We have different legal standards, among others. in criminal law, which regulates such situations, and can now be invoked. I've dealt with cases like this, too, and it can be applied. As for the inclusion on the Łódź Bar list... High Izbo, I have analyzed this legal situation even with the Dean of the Łódź Chamber. Neither the law on the lawyer nor the principles of legal ethics give rise to such an obligation, nor do I have to submit a letter of resignation from the Chamber, and even the appointment to this position can only confirm the question of education and professional preparation for the Ombudsman's duties. For what is the spokesman, who is the spokesman, if not the lawyer, but with much greater powers? As a lawyer, I can act on a case when someone signs my authorization, as a spokesman, I can act on any case. Moreover, there are exemptions, but this does not apply to the position of choice. And if that is the will of the High House, which the Sejm has expressed its will... This is a position of choice. Therefore, there is no need to renounce being a member of the bar. However, we are likely to ask for an opinion in this regard in order to confirm this interpretation of the rules Because it is the law that we use, we use the interpretation that comes directly from the rules of the law to confirm whether it is correct. I don't see the need for that at this point. And the last question is, were there any dealings with me? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a lawyer's job. After coming to the ministry, there was one case of a dissatisfied client who was legally dismissed and I was exonerated. The client's charges have been completely wrong, misplaced and the barrister's office, and the disciplinary court has found them to be unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u97	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have two questions, first specific. Recently, we have been appalled by the information that some schools try to use gender ideology for their children. The question is, how are you going to counter, if you're going to, and if you're going to counter the school board? 'Cause she's the one who has to let her parents know, except for their consent, she's introduced elements of this ideology to young children? And a more general question. Well, I think that the best environment for a child is his natural family understood as a man and a woman, a father and a mother, while at the same time parents should have a decisive influence on the upbringing of a child. Don't you think that this attack on your person sometimes even a personal attack, which we see in part also in this room It follows from the fact that those who attack you have different views on this fundamental problem, as well as different from what is contained in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I'm going to start with the second part, because it's going to be easier for me to get to the precise question that was at first. Family is a natural place to raise children. It comes from the constitution, from the natural law, from the sense, I hope, of every one of us present in this Chamber. And if so, parents have the first and fundamental right to be involved in raising a child and in the direction of this upbringing. So nothing that's against your parents, and nothing. I'm moving on here. Which is contrary to the program, should not take place at school. I try to interpret it in this way, like events from a few weeks ago or months ago, like issues repeated annually in different situations by so-called. educators, which seems to have little to do with the nomenclature of educational law, the Teacher Charter and all educational programs. Nothing against parents, family, and program established by law can exist in school. It's just that. That's why I'm reversing the interpretation here. Any attempt to circumvent such a rule shall be inadmissible. It will have to be verified, analysed, any such signal will be verified by me and certainly such information with suggestions will be sent to the supervisory authorities. This also applies to gender ideology and any other ideology that may have been passed on in some way beyond parental consent. And all the parents who are in the place, all the parents whose children would be in contact with such content... So that's the answer to the first detail. And as for the positions or views expressed about me... Ladies and gentlemen, I, when I accepted this offer, asked the club to become an advocate, first I consulted with my wife, asked her if she would agree. And whether or not someone here agrees or disagrees, or if I've convinced... I hope that most countries, even those who are negative, have convinced me. But it's no longer up to me to judge, not to judge. I don't have a recipe or authority for this, and I don't even want to judge why anyone's saying anything about me in a negative way, especially since, as most of the country has noticed, these people may not know me personally. And those who know me personally have an opinion that's made up, backed up by facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u100	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u101	You were talking about the need to protect life from conception. I'd ask you to clarify that. Are you in favour of tightening up abortion law? And if so, to what extent? Second question. She's still limping dental care. Law and Justice promised to solve this issue. There were supposed to be special buses, special staff. How do you assess the implementation of this request and the degree to which children's needs are met today? And what are you going to do about it so that Poles are not deceived, that it is possible to do something that is not done afterwards? And finally, I would like to ask you: and how do you get this conviction? It does not come from the proceedings of the Committee on Family and Social Policy, which, after all, adopts an annual report on the implementation of foster care That there are enough foster families in Poland? You've used enough of that phrase here. My understanding is that there are far too few of them. And it takes a lot of action for families like this to come, especially those not related. And the question at the end. Tell me what your legal specialty is and whether you consider it sufficient for the responsibilities you are to undertake.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, as to the protection of life from conception, as I have pointed out, the rules now in force in my opinion are not precise and these discrepancies need to be clarified. Part of the way to clarify these discrepancies is perhaps the application to the Constitutional Court. I agree with this request, I agree with the reasons given by the Attorney General as a party to the proceedings. In addition, I supplemented this, also at the committee's meeting, with this brief legal statement, to which no one has so far paid any attention, and I have examined and applied, and the regulations, a statement concerning the existence of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and this obligation to protect life from conception. And in view of this situation, I believe that all possible ways should be made to ensure that life is protected as best as possible. Well, it's one of the good methods adopted today. As for care... [[But I would ask you to answer: you are in favour of tightening up abortion law, and if so, to what extent?]] Mr. Senator, High Izbo, clear... [[Clowns.]] If life is to be protected from conception, then from conception, to every extent possible. And that's what I think. As for dental care, personnel, like the senator... I understand that this is all about health care, this nurse, this doctor, in schools, because it applies to children, not to the health system at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember a primary school where a nurse, at least a nurse, because when it comes to a doctor, I may have been too young or forgot, she always was. And it wasn't unusual that you were a nurse and a dentist once in a while was at school, and at least he was heading for treatment, he suggested. So when it comes to bringing back something that has been abandoned or destroyed for many, many years, I am absolutely in favour of it, and I hope it will continue. The next question is: why do you think I'm the right man in this place? [[No, it's about foster families.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I'm asking you about foster families. Dear Senator, High Izbo, being, it seems, in this or last year, because foster family conferences are cyclical, I'm invited to them, I've been... As far as the number of foster families and the number of children are concerned, I meant in particular those numbers concerning young children, until the seventh year of age, because in this respect, it seems to be, too, I now estimate, forgive me if I make a mistake about a specific number of about 1 thousand families, and the children in care, the smallest ones, are 700. These are the free families that could take such a child, the math account itself points that way. As far as the other issues are concerned, this obviously requires implementation and continuation. Now about whether or not I'm the right man in the right place, and about specialization. As I have tried to convey, what I have been doing for many years is practice, basic work, individual affairs, human affairs, matters of mother, father, child. The kids are texting us, too. Sometimes it was just a phone call. When I was at the ministry at 8:00 p.m., I just looked in writing, after reading his content, his phone, so that you could call and do something about the cito so that you wouldn't wait this page for a magazine that would come in three weeks, because I had to sign it, and before the employee wrote it. 'Cause maybe you just need to help with something right away. And in my opinion, the Ombudsman, aside from general speeches, because he also has directions for the overall protection of the rights of the child resulting from the Convention, from the provisions of laws, and perhaps from demands, from the need to change the law... Besides, the Ombudsman is also to know everything that is going on with him in every individual case. Whenever it's necessary, it's supposed to help at any time. This is what I have done, I have done, and whether you will be gracious to me or not, I will continue to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u103	Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! You're presenting such a tough moral attitude here. This, of course, must be pleasing, although for me the moral attitude includes more issues and issues, not just issues related to the protection of the conceived life. Well, from the data you've quoted here... I'm talking about using a fund that was created to help victims of crime. Well, 100 million were sent to volunteer firefighters. I'll be right back. 25 million to Central Anti-Corruption Bureau, and only 30 million to actual crime victims. And you, in charge of this fund, allowed it to happen. Don't hide from the fact that the law says that individuals in the public finance sector can receive this money because the objective is clear. You let it happen. Not much, you were involved in handing this equipment over to volunteer firefighters in the company of politicians, which happened notoriously before the election. It was a typical political action. You, as an official who should be apolitical, were involved. And the first question is, don't you think it was a violation of the rules of bureaucracy? And now I'm going back to those volunteer firefighters. Well, I must say, the casuistics you've applied here... I respect her, but it's hard to approve of her. You said that when there was a car accident, there was a crime and therefore money from this fund can be directed to firemen, because they come and help victims of the crime. Well, I have to say, it has to be written as an example of casuistics. Could you answer my question, if someone hits a tree while driving, we're dealing with a crime? Who's the criminal here? [[Voices from the hall: Tree.]] Exactly. Or let's assume there's a collision of two cars, but the consequences are not the victim, not the one who caused the accident, but the one who caused it. The one who's a criminal, not a victim. Those firefighters don't know it, and they're on their way. Right? That's what they assume in advance. So it doesn't make any sense. He only holds on to one thing. Here are the municipal elections coming up, so you drive around all the municipalities in the company of politicians of the governing party. And the equipment is handed over to the public, showing how good the ruling party is. And you were just part of it. You approved of it as... well, an apolitical clerk. Would you mind answering my question about how you feel about this? And I would ask you to answer that question about these accident crimes, too, because it doesn't stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As for the apoliticity and the way in which I worked and with whom I worked, I would remind you that the ministers are my superiors. They are also officials and have the right to supervise and verify my work as a public official. Whether it was one or another minister, he would have the right to do so. The Minister is simply my senior officer in this area. It was the Minister's program and as such it was carried out. As for this equipment that was purchased, I can actually say right here... [[Before the election.]] ...that I am proud that such a task, specific equipment, specific devices that can save our lives... Perhaps each of us would like them to be immediately in place to be delivered in time for them to be in the possession of firefighters. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here to set political or electoral calendars. My job was to counter the effects of crime, mostly road traffic. In fact, it was very fitting to note that at times only this drunken perpetrator will be harmed. But firefighters volunteers who act pro bono spend their time, often health This year there were even a few who sacrificed their lives on their way to the fire of a tree because they thought there was a serious crime, that the tanker crashed there. They do not know at the time of assistance whether they provide this assistance to criminals or victims. And at the same time, in the situation we have, when in the events, in these traffic offences... Because these are crimes, ladies and gentlemen, in the Penal Code is the chapter of criminal offences against security in communication. And often, which is not widely spoken of, and I know it as a lawyer, a lawyer, these firefighters, cops, medical paramedics or ordinary bystanders, who are first at the scene, go to court and testify to what it was to establish the guilt to determine who did it. Perhaps the procedure will be terminated because the perpetrator is dead, but to anyone we save the life of whom these firefighters will save their lives... Well, that's added value for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u107	I'm so sorry that I've been redecorating you with this question. It's just at some point, speaking of yourself, you used the phrase that you're an insubordinate man. Well, we already have one high official who calls himself steadfast, so I thought that as a man of insincerity, however, as an official, an apolitical official, he would say: no, please take someone else, maybe the minister will ride with it himself, but not me. Well, maybe I don't understand incompetence. But I'll get back to that justification. I remember how this fund was created and I know the reason for this fund. Well, there were no firemen mentioned in that statement... [[Totally, totally.]] ...or anything like that. It was clear there about the victims of the crime: the victim of the crime, the victim of the victim. It was supposed to be a man who stayed, for example. wounded, therefore, there were medical costs, consequences were borne by his family, his children. It was such a coincidence. What's going on here? So it turns out that 100 million are going to volunteer firefighters, 25 million are going to CBA, that is, to cases that weren't entirely at the root of this fund, and 30 million are going to do just that. And you supervised it all, you accepted it. That is wrong, that is immoral, and the spokesperson of the rights of the child should be completely clean in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u108	Mr. Marshal, I don't know if that was the question of... [[You know, the question was how you feel about it, but you can either answer or you can't.]] Dear Marshal, High Izbo, Mr Senator, I have used and used regulations. The current provision, with justification, of the Law amending the rules on the Justice Fund, was adopted by Parliament, including the High Chamber, in August last year. And in those provisions, including the explanatory memorandum, there was a possibility. As far as I am concerned, it was even clear in the explanatory memorandum that such entities... the objectives for which the funds of the fund are to be transferred were indicated directly in the explanatory memorandum of this project. So it seems that I have acted in accordance with the law in force. Thank you. [[What about CBA? It was a question about CBA.]] [[The CBA must be the victim.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u109	I don't hear any more questions. [[But I was written down.]] Well, I'm sorry, sir. The senator didn't tell me... [[Mr. Marshal, I was saved an hour and a half ago.]] Senator Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u110	Thank you very much. Marshal Seweryński asked me to block the questions so they could be three, not one, and I was written down for three questions at a time. First question. Sir, are you... Here is the question of understanding correctly the essence of the Ombudsman's function. Don't you think that bonding with the Ministry of Justice will make it difficult or even hinder the proper exercise of the role of spokesperson as an opponent in relation to both executive and legislative power? E.g. Bodnar spokesperson came from the Helsinki Foundation, a non-governmental organisation. This raises the question of why you are not concerned about the lack of support by NGOs. Here I refer to the questions of Senator Napieralski. E.g. A spokesman for Bodnar legitimized himself with about 70 NGOs. And you're hiding organizations that support you, perhaps that's why... I don't know, but maybe it's because they'd just be organizations that were the beneficiaries of the money you had at your disposal. But why aren't you showing... You're supposed to function in this environment. And the question of credibility, Counselor. You're a lawyer, and so am I, not a lawyer. Well, let me ask you straight, because I listened to your explanation here: why can't you use a literal interpretation to convince those who are asking that you are fulfilling the statutory requirement for this five-year job? This is a question of credibility at all, a fundamental feature that will, after all, translate into effectiveness. Without this credibility, without the support of the non-governmental community, without conflicting with power, by nature, you will not be able to perform this function. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsperson on Children's Rights, Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Thank you. Did...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u111	Senator Zdrojewska. [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Aha, collectively.]] [[Yes? You want me to talk?]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u112	I'm sorry, because I can't find... Tell me... You cited the law on the Justice Fund. And I believe that these changes you are talking about were introduced by the Minister's regulation of 13 September 2017. Am I wrong? The Justice Fund has been entered in the Executive Criminal Code. Yes? Is it or isn't it? Well, you're a lawyer... [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: This I can keep up with... Yes?]] Yes, I'm asking for an answer. [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Mr. Senator, can I have this...]] [[You're the marshal who decides.]] [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u113	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u114	As for this precise question about regulations... In order for the regulation to be amended, it had to be the law. This law is an implementing penal code, Article. 43 was changed last summer. Thus, the Article has been amended. 43 of the implementing criminal code and on this basis a new regulation has been introduced. So that's the specific, precise issue. As for the senator's questions, here's what I'm gonna say. When it comes to the idea that spokesmen should be opportunists and always against power... about opportunism. Yeah, 'cause you gotta look for a hole in the whole thing. [[That's what the spokesperson's for.]] About the fact that I'm always against it, I wonder. Why am I wondering? 'Cause if I offered a recipe... Or else: let's assume that those rules that went to the Standing Committee of Ministers yesterday, which I am proud of. I also formulated them, they will come into force. In time, if they have a good effect, am I supposed to criticize them as a spokesman because they came out as an initiative of the government, or executive authority? No, I don't think so. Good solutions should be supported and at most corrected if they work badly. That's the whole point of looking for a hole. Looking for a hole in all this is what I was talking about in answer to senators' questions, senators. If there are several institutions that are supposed to help the family and the child and work independently, and they should start working together to help the family... There was this kazuistic case, and it was probably the only time in the media somewhere. It was at the beginning of my job at the ministry. You can find my picture. The father was supposed to be picked up in the Łódź, six children, I think. Legally, it wasn't there. too much to do because this is what an independent court does, but you had to go and tell this man: sir, the ILOS will help coordinate... There was a question of 500+, because there was a problem, some conflict with the mother of the child, and it was not known at which point and who the money was due, and the man needed several thousand zlotys. And after 2 years I know about this kazus, that this coordinated support on that one day from different institutions helped. They're in a new apartment renovated. Yeah, they need help, because that's what it's like when there's one father who never took care of kids or didn't do much, and then suddenly he's got all six of them, a whole bunch of them, including, I guess, two of them, because daddies are gone. It also required empathy and help from him. And I helped him out a little bit. So that the issue of this total opportunism against power and opposing power... I wouldn't agree with that, because we're supposed to work together. And the spokesperson has this one, you might say, the spokesperson's claw... [[Independence.]] ...is supposed to scratch and point where something isn't good, so that we can work out some good solutions together. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, by examining the history of the Ombudsman... the Ombudsman's Act was passed in 2000 and the institution itself was established in the Constitution. The first spokesperson was a philosopher, the second spokesperson was a judge, ladies and gentlemen, the entire term of office... Mr. Marek Michalak is a rehabilitator. Now, perhaps, it's time for a lawyer again. But I wouldn't drain... I would be far from combining the right to be a spokesperson with just one profession. Of course, it's up to you... [[But I wasn't talking about the job.]] ...the High House. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware... And I value all my predecessors, in this place and in the Seym, all the candidates. I'm the fifth. We have submitted to public verification, and it is very in-depth, very individual, often unfair. But we gave in to it for a very important purpose: to take on this responsibility for showing this spokesperson's claw at the right time. And he's supposed to be painful enough and painful enough for the authorities to finally notice the problem. And where something works well, you have to support it so it doesn't go wrong. This is also the activity of the spokesperson. [[He's gonna be the claw...]] Mr. Senator, I hope I at least answered all these questions. If I'm missing something, I'm gonna need a signal. [[I am concerned about this lack of support from NGOs, because this should be your back room. That's where my questions come from. And you don't reveal...]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I have signaled, I do not know whether these are all institutions that do not support me because I do not even know their names. They didn't volunteer, they didn't write to me personally. [[Exactly.]] If they do, then... I would like to invite you now to discuss the source of their doubts. If there are those who support it, they may take the floor, and if they do not, they may only take part in individual consultations. Non-governmental institutions, it seems, are tens, if not hundreds of thousands in Poland. And I don't know which institutions we're talking about right now. [[It's about baby-sitting.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u115	Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u116	One of these institutions, I understand, is UNICEF Poland. This organisation issued a statement on 27 November. Do you know this statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u117	No, I don't. It didn't get to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u118	Well, I can only add this name to the names of the institutions, which in a sense protest against a choice that is contrary to the constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u119	If I may, Mr. Marshal, one sentence... It was emphasized, High Izbo, among others. in the information about me In Paris this year, at the global congress for the rights of children on behalf of the government, the ministry was one of the speakers even. In the presence of more than 180 representatives of 180 countries, I gave a lecture. And that was within the scope of UNICEF's activities. So that I leave it to the senators to assess. [[Mr. Marshal, but your spokesperson did not answer my question about the fulfilment of the five-year term... I asked you to present a literal interpretation as... clear and clear...]] Sure. [[...because that's a basic statutory condition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u120	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, both at the meeting of the committee and today, thanks to the invitation of the Marshal to the meeting of the High House, I have tried to put forward arguments for the fact that all these requirements have been met, that the activities are being carried out. Among these provisions, which are to be interpreted, there is no catalogue or profession or activities to be carried out for the benefit of children. And I trust that these arguments are entirely sufficient for the High House. Thank you very much. [[He didn't answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u122	Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since you are very often talking about individual cases in which you have responded, I would like to ask you about a report: how do you imagine the Ombudsman intervening in individual situations, and how, in the case of the general problems you are going to report, investigate, propose solutions? Personally, I do. And I have repeatedly expressed that opinion at the committee's meeting. That the Ombudsman's reproduction, by various ombudsman, of tasks, e.g. social workers, visitors to the general courts are not appropriate. The Ombudsman should mainly aim to address general issues, not to replace various offices, which are many in Poland. Because the practice of dealing with individual situations would generate the need to create branches in individual voivodships, the expansion of administration, which I do not consider appropriate. What's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! By way of clarification, because only to this extent do I want to speak, I would like to say that these individual cases, which just justify experience, their number and the problems that arise there, are assumptuous to the general speeches, to make certain recommendations on their basis, guidelines for changes to the rules. Absolutely do not understand the activity I hope to pursue as a spokesman as a substitute for these institutions. It is about showing them, reminding them of each other about their existence at times, absolutely not about replacing them in individual matters. Individual affairs... I am referring here to situations concerning litigation, because these are the most common situations when the Ombudsman acts individually. In other areas, it is to be to link institutions, inform them and remind them of one duty to protect the child's well-being. That's the basic duty. And on this basis we can e.g. To say that if there are conflicts and parents reflect the child between themselves like a ball, it is necessary to mediate between parents. And this is some kind of general statement, a request for a change of law, which is to move from detail, from a group of details, to accumulate them and to develop a method outside. And that's what I meant here, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u125	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. [[Voices from the hall: He's already been there.]] He was. Then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u126	Thank you. I still have a question about the Justice Fund. Did you participate in the legislative work on the preparation of amendments to the CCPD.? Did you participate in this work? And did you also participate in the legislative work on the Minister of Justice regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, The amendment of the Law of. The implementing Penal Code was, it seems, a parliamentary initiative, so these works were carried out in these buildings. As regards the alignment of the regulation, which was obsolete with regard to the entry into force of the Fund Code, yes, I took part, of my own motion, in the drafting of this Regulation, because it was my responsibility as director of the Fund's substantive department.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u128	I'll ask you a question. Did you help Members of the Law and Justice, or did you participate in the preparation of these changes in k.w. about the Justice Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Following the entry into the Ministry in June 2016, when the Fund acted on previous principles, one of my tasks was to verify the issues concerning its activities and effectiveness. As a result of this verification, it turned out that the fund had to be reformed so that it could start to have money effectively, the amount of which started to grow avalanche after I came to the ministry. As I said, this was a tenfold increase compared to previous revenue before 2016. So that certain assumptions were prepared. But I, as director, presented these conclusions... I mean. the establishment of leadership, and that's where I ended up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u130	Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u131	I have a brief question about the budget. As I recall, the Ombudsman's budget, the Ombudsman's office, in the last three years, was reduced and then not increased. Have you been familiar with the current budget project for the department that concerns you? Are you going to appeal, for example? The Sejm or the Senate is now supposed to decide this, but it's supposed to be postponed. For an increase in the Ombudsman's office's budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, This institution, like any public institution, is based on a budget. I've been pre-analyzing budget issues. We all know that, given the legislative procedure for possible corrections, it is very late for this to happen. And as to whether the current budget is sufficient to carry out the tasks, to carry out the duties of the Ombudsman's capacity, let me take the floor if you entrust me with this position. After taking the position, because the details of the spending of the budget and the existing needs, the agreements concluded, I do not have all these issues at the moment. Well, it's obvious, natural. I have been familiar with the budget and we are aware of the legislative procedure that Parliament is in. But, of course, it all depends on the High House and on the whole Parliament, how these financial issues, the budget for the Ombudsman will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u133	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! First of all, about education. I understand there's not much time, and it's like it's not time for details, but I'm a little worried. 'Cause the spokesperson said the tox screens plus free time are In short, things that inspire you. However, I understand that as part of your time, you will be expanding what concerns questions related to improvement, in short, the existence of children at school. But here's the question. Mr Ombudsperson, in the framework of the meeting of the rule of law team, the Senate team, we had a large speech from the professor, the head of such a team, who monitors all kinds of projects, actions, complaints concerning the child's activities of schools after the reform of Minister Zalewska. I have a question. Will your spokesperson, as I say, support the further activities of this team, or follow the example of other newcomers who are coming, say: what has been done so far must be cut off and I will take care of the bags and free time? That's the first question. Second question, regarding... Mr. Spokesman said a very important thing and I was born with a question about 500+. Here's the problem. Namely, the court in an individual case ruled that in the case of the second and third children there is no need for maintenance proceedings, and the Minister says otherwise. I'd like to hear from your ombudsman if your spokesperson will. This is what Senator Zientarski asked you to support the Minister's position, or you will support what the parents of children have requested in their feelings of misguided interpretation of the Ministry. That's the first question about 500+. And two: what is your opinion on 500+ for single parents? Well, let me just say that when there's 801, a single parent doesn't get that kind of support. Finally, a very important question, I would like you to finally answer it. This will probably turn out to be in the media, namely the issue of this procedure, the complaint. Could you tell us what the complaint was, what it was about? Of course, no names, no specific case. But what was it about, who ruled, what were the judgments? I am talking about this in the context of the conditions that a candidate for a spokesman must fulfil, this integrity, character, personality characteristics, etc. I think it's worth saying clearly and clearly what was the case, show all these scenes, without, of course, mentioning the names and places, and give which year it was. If you'll excuse me, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would very much like to read the minutes of the meeting of this team. Of course, as I have said and what I support: listen to all sides, audiences et altera pars. So that the advisory vote is certainly one of those very important to the Ombudsman. That's the answer to the first question. Second question: 500+ and the problem that emerged in administrative courts and interpretation of the family department. In itself, the 500+ programme, which affects the child's social rights, which is also to be specifically protected by the Ombudsman, is as correct as possible and goes in the right direction. The question of interpretation... Well, as you can see, the courts have applied a different interpretation and this is binding on this particular case. It's probably gonna radiate into other decisions. At the same time, I can say that from my perspective, the solutions and regulations that were being prepared were either to be designed or to be interpreted in such a way as to address the person to whom they are concerned. It is to be as simple as possible, as easily as possible to achieve the goal that may have hidden somewhere the legislator or the originator of the project. Therefore, as regards this issue of the existence of a maintenance decision of a court, inter alia. On the basis of this problem, in the draft presented to the Standing Committee, it is proposed to introduce an immediate maintenance institution within, it seems, 14 days by the courts in the form of a maintenance order, which would close for all in many cases, of course, because there may be very individual cases of the need for long-term legal proceedings which consequently prevent obtaining this benefit. Therefore, some solutions are already created on the basis of the problems that arose, and when they work together and coherently, I hope so. They will reduce and reduce the number of these difficult situations. Finally, it's about this complaint. The case was about... Because of the attorney-client privilege that I'm in, whether I'm an attorney or not, no matter what time it is, I can't give you these details, either on the side or on the case, because it can identify in some way. This is a matter decided by an independent disciplinary court of the Bar Chamber. Even from a political perspective, it is difficult to accuse self-government professional bodies of promoting any and especially the current ruling option. It is definitively concluded and closed and the allegations are deemed unfounded. It's happened recently. So that the case is closed, and completely unfounded were the charges brought against me by one single client in 13 years, notabene after I came to the ministry. I'll leave you to assess this incident. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, would you please...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u137	...mr. Spokesperson... [[Mr. Counselor.]] ... Counselor... I'm just going back to your ombudsman's interpretation of 500+. I understand that if things work out according to your spokesperson's script, everything will be okay. But that's not what I asked. I'm asking you... We have a certain legal and life situation today. What position, as a spokesperson, without waiting for various events to improve the legal environment of this phenomenon, will you take or present with regard to this problem that has arisen?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Maybe I'll get to the other side about 500+. If the case, as the senator pointed out, concerns an individual case which has arisen and which has been referred to by the courts, it is appropriate in this case Unfortunately, after a while, because it was this pain for the family that it was just necessary to wait for the court to decide the correct way of thinking. And whether there will be changes to the rules, this is the issue of the Advocate General's activity, who is diagnosing some problems in this great task. It could be assumed that these are the issues that arise on a case-by-case basis and need to be corrected. It is necessary to make, perhaps also by legislative amendment to the 500+ witnessing law, so that such cases simply do not exist. Individual cases depend precisely on the activities of the various ILOS and GOPS, which carry out this task, which are tens of thousands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u139	Mr. Senator Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Director, I'd like to... If that's the question here, I'll withdraw it. It's about the Okęc shelter. Was that a question? Did you answer them? [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsperson on Children's Rights, Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: No.]] As chairman of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, various letters are sent to me, including the one that worried me a little. It is said that it is doomed or even in the process of liquidation of the Hostel for Minors Warsaw-Okęcie. I'd like to ask... Because here is the charge against you: it is amazing that the person seeking and preparing documentation for the liquidation of the facility is the director of the Department of Family Affairs and Minorities in the Ministry of Justice, currently applying for the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak. Is it true that this shelter will be destroyed? Are you involved in this undertaking? And what is the fate of this children's shelter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, When I came to the ministry... Until today, until 12 December 2018, there are more than 30 juvenile correction facilities and shelters, where we have about 600 pupils, and places much, much more. In my term of office, none of the bets were closed. Why, despite the fact that, as I say, there are few pupils, and many places, no bet has been closed down? The idea is to develop some solutions that will allow us to identify and improve the situation in some way. I know that in previous years, in the year, it seems, 2014 or 2012, 3 bets have been closed. During my term of office, none of the juvenile correction facilities or shelters have been wound up. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I clarify the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u142	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u143	Thank you. However, Mr. Director, I would like you to refer to what the director of this facility writes. That the Ministry is going to take the shelter away from the children. You are listed here by name as the person who prepares the documentation. Isn't that true? Isn't that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my job to analyse the situation of all bets. As part of my supervision of the establishments, I analyse the situation of all these establishments. As for the fate of these bets, it's up to the Minister of Justice. As of today, the Minister has made no decision about this situation. As director in this area, I'm following orders from my boss. There is no decision on the liquidation or conversion of these facilities for today, on December 12th. [[Then why are the children's concerns and the management of the facility?]] I don't know why I bother... I'm sorry. [[You didn't prepare any action in this area, didn't make any opinions, suggestions?]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, as I said, I am analyzing the situation of all the institutions... [[It's Okęcie.]] ...all the correction facilities, including the Rounds. As for the maintenance costs of minors, as to the validity of the necessity to leave, the existence of a facility for boys in such a large agglomeration as Warsaw... There's a need. This is the only bet that exists here. Thank you very much. [[I didn't find out...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u145	Senator Zdrojewska. Yes? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: No, no.]] Senator, I'm sorry. I'm following Senator Secretary's instructions. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u146	I would like to ask you what your position is on the proposals of NGOs and public benefit organisations regarding the creation, the appointment of a public benefit council in the Ombudsman's case, which would be helpful in the actions of the Ombudsman, as well as working intensively with non-governmental organisations, and at the same time was a body which could be involved in the process of submitting candidates for the Ombudsman. What's your position on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, As for the existence of advice or advisory bodies at the Ombudsman's office, I am aware that there are various kinds of games that the Ombudsman uses to help him. And he will certainly continue to benefit from this aid. And as for possible future changes, demands, this is of course a matter to consider. Perhaps, thanks to this House, Parliament will be able to present some ideas in the future, projects that will clarify which will prevent such unnecessary doubts concerning the future choice of the Ombudsman, doubts that do not exist, but that arise... Perhaps otherwise: existing, but untrue and unnecessary. Of course, as I said, and I will repeat this for the third time today, listening to the voice of non-governmental institutions is one of the tasks, but also my goals. And will there be a council in front of the spokesperson, specifically called the Council of Public Use Activities... Well, in the last ten years, in the last two terms, such a council has not been established. Perhaps it will be a good initiative and perhaps it will have to be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u148	Does that mean that your answer is perhaps, so you do not have a view of this as a candidate for a child's right to be generalized or forward-looking or at present? I don't understand what maybe it means. I asked for your opinion as a candidate for spokesperson because NGOs and public benefit organisations have this proposal. I asked you how you feel about this at the moment, how you feel about it. I don't really care about the answer, maybe, well, I don't know if that's the answer or if it's a dodge. I'm asking your opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, As I said, briefly and specifically, I will listen to the voice of such a body. That's what I think. So far. The fifth spokesperson is currently elected, and this has been done on the basis of the applicable rules. And whether the request for a change will be justified, I will only be able to decide after considering the arguments I am waiting for. Well, the very request for a council, of one kind or another, is very well founded, the question only of what arguments will be put forward about the work of such a council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u150	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. Oh, and Senator Wind. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u151	I volunteered, Mr. Secretary signed me up, I had the impression. I would like to ask, in the context of what you said about the general speeches, that they will be undertaken on the basis of intervention and what happened. My question is this: to what extent will such general speeches concern matters that are intended to safeguard the welfare of the child in the future? It's about promoting this good, preventing pathology, about such deep prevention. What are your visions here, your plans, your directions of concern, your stages of analysis? Well, it's obvious that every change in every bill can be viewed for the welfare of a child. There may also be pre-emptive measures or an analysis of the state of the law. We know that there are new situations, new threats all the time. We have talked here many times with the previous spokesperson about cybersecurity and there has been such an absolute lack of activity of the Ombudsman in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, The general speeches, as I have indicated, are formulated on the basis of some knowledge that we collect from individual cases. I have already talked about cybersecurity, moving on to a more specific situation related to the prevention of the availability of pornography. Yeah, absolutely. I have also presented as one of my main tasks, which, especially at the beginning, needs to be addressed now. I want you to have something to settle for me in a while. The task of a large number of suicides among children. This is an existing problem, it is a question of diagnosing it, determining how to counteract it, what measures to take. Most likely... The first thing that comes to mind is strengthening, rebuilding, restoring psychiatric and psychological care in many places, and getting this help to children who unfortunately have such bad ideas in their head, and finding out where it's coming from. So that there are many such issues that will probably have to be taken into account in general speeches to various institutions, perhaps not to one specific institution, but to a few institutions... Perhaps a general speech will have to be given, e.g. on cooperation in the field of foster care, on mobilising... on the cooperation of assistant family ministers with guardians under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and with social services institutions in specific cases in the region concerned. Because it depends on the region, too. In this respect, the general speeches will certainly go in this direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u153	No further questions. Thank you very much for your answer. [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Mr. Marshal, can I have two words, yes, to the High House?]] Well, the rules don't foresee it, but there you go. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsperson on Children's Rights Mikołaj Paweł Pawlak: Thank you very much. Then thank you very much.]] No, but if you want to say more, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u154	High Izbo! Dear Marshal, It is a great honor to stand before you and answer questions. It is also a great stress, a great responsibility, but above all an honor. And regardless of my assessment, I'm hoping for a positive assessment. Thank you very much for all this, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u155	Thank you very much, Counselor. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held after the third point has been considered. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1025 and the report of the committee In print No 1025 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Pęka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the proceedings of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 22 November this year, on the amendment of the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities of 19441990 and on the content of these documents. For starters, a few words about the law itself. The Act introduces a negative condition for employment in the foreign service. In the foreign service and in the post referred to in Article. Article 28a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 The Foreign Service Act, i.e. a management position in the office serving the Minister of Foreign Affairs who is a senior position in the civil service, cannot be employed by a person who, from 22 July 1944 to 31 July 1990, worked or served in the State Security Authorities or was a collaborator of those authorities within the meaning of the Law of 18 October 2006 on disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of those documents. The foreign service shall operate in the Ministry serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Offices. It consists of members of the Civilian Service Corps employed by the Ministry serving the Foreign Minister, not members of the Civilian Service Corps of persons employed in the foreign service, plenipotentiary representatives of the Republic of Poland in another country or with an international organisation, and members of the Foreign Service transferred to post in the Ministry's organisational cells providing services to the Minister responsible for the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union. This negative condition of employment in the foreign service will also apply to non-members of the foreign service of the persons referred to in Article. 2 (2) 2 points 1 and 3 of the Foreign Service Act. These include members of the Civil Service Corps employed in the Ministry serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and organisational units providing services for the tasks of the Minister responsible for Polish membership in the European Union and persons employed in the foreign office of the Republic of Poland on the basis of a contract of employment concluded for a limited period of time in the institution by a member of the family; employed in a foreign institution under a contract of employment within the meaning of the Law of. The Labour Code; employed in the Ministry serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs under the provisions of the Act of 16 September 1982 on employees of state offices and employed in organisational units supervised by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, provided that these persons are Polish citizens. Following the amendment of the Foreign Service Act, the Act on disclosure of State Security Authorities documents in 19441990 and the content of those documents was also amended. First of all, it was assumed that the person acting as a public office is also the person referred to in the article added to the Foreign Service Act. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2; secondly, it has been pointed out that such persons will be making representations of the foreign minister. The Act provides that the employment relations of persons employed in the foreign service and persons subject to a mirror obligation following a novel which, prior to the date of entry into force of the Act, submitted documents confirming their work or service in or cooperation with State security bodies, will expire 60 days after the date of entry into force of this Act. Persons covered by a mirror obligation following a novel which had not submitted an appropriate illustrative document before its date of entry into force shall be required to submit such a document within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. The employment relationship of the person who lodges a document confirming the work or service of the State security authorities or cooperates with those authorities shall expire within 30 days of the date of submission of the document. The non-submission of a document by a person obliged to do so shall be regarded as a mandatory condition for the deprivation of a public office. Regarding the outcome of the joint meetings of the committees, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, director of the Office of Personal Affairs, director of Artur Lompart, and representative of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Skrok, were present at a committee meeting other than the senators. His opinion was presented by the Senate legislature, Mr Jakub Zabielski. It could be said that the committee's deliberations focused on two aspects. The first was more of a philosophy, such a political, historical one. The question was raised: at this point in history does this type of illustration make sense, or is it too late? Some documents have been cited, including European documents, suggesting that such illustrative processes should be completed within 10 years of the process of systemic transformation. Of course, this is a political discussion. It can be said that later the discussion has already focused on such specialized doubts, on interpretation and legal issues. Here a very detailed, very in-depth expertise was presented by the Senate legislature. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, referring to these comments by the legislator, claimed that they were mostly of such a nature that these gaps could be interpreted, that these doubts could be eliminated by reference to other provisions and other laws. In the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these were not such doubts as to render this law ineffective or dead. Therefore, a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendment has been submitted. This request was supported by the committee. Minority proposals have also been submitted. I'm sure you'll be presenting them to Senator Grodzki. I would like to inform you that at the plenary session on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, Senator Marek Martynowski had tabled appropriate amendments to the bill, which essentially consume all legislative comments. The point is that there should be no doubt as to the extent to which the procedure is to be followed. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Wach, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am replacing the absent Senator Grodzki, who was originally envisaged as rapporteur on this matter. Regardless, I volunteered or signed up for an individual appearance. As far as minority proposals are concerned, they provide for 8 amendments. The amendments, generally speaking, are twofold. The nature of these amendments is twofold. Some of them consume the comments of the Legislative Office and are legislative in nature and some are substantive in nature. Minority proposals do not contradict the purpose of the law itself and do not question what the law itself brings, but extend the number of deadlines it contains. In short... I don't want to discuss it in detail, but I want to say that for example. in relation to persons who have made a positive illustrative statement much earlier, on the basis of the previous law, the statutory deadline for dismissal is extended from 60 to 90 days. In the case of newly illustrious and foreign-service workers for whom the Act provides for mandatory removal of 30 days, this period shall be extended to 60 days. As far as I'm concerned... Amendments extend a number of other deadlines, e.g. IPN terms from 7 to 14 days, for functional reasons. These proposals were made mainly for reasons, so to speak, functional, i.e. practical, and not as part of the denial of the law itself. Those who attended the committee's meeting argued that a number of people who would lose their jobs... In the past, they submitted a positive conclusion and could work, and the current law removes them from work within 60 days. Some of them are in foreign offices and have reduced job search opportunities and new situation The shortest, to say the least. This is the nature of the amendments made by the minority. It seems to me that they are very practical, reasonable and in themselves do not contradict the bill and, above all, its intention. As for the outcome of the vote, the current opposition senators It seems to me, as far as I remember, that three of them voted in favour of this request by minorities. Most If I'm not mistaken, because that's what I'm saying from memory, it's not in the report. The number of nine was in favour of the bill being adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Marek Pęk was kind to define that such questions bear the mark of a political question, but I think they are not political, because they are extremely important from the point of view of the matter we are discussing. Namely, I would like to ask both senators what is at the root of the fact that after almost 30 years we return to this matter and we want to say goodbye, de facto to the people who functioned in these services in the past era. Because we're talking about people who took up a job in 1944 and 1990. My question is this: what is the basis for this project, what has happened that you are presenting today in the Senate? Why hasn't Law and Justice submitted this project over the past three years? And why didn't she submit this project in 2005 and 2007? It was also in power at the time. That's the first question. And two: was there a speech at the joint committee meeting? It's also a question for both senators. ? about the scale of people who can still work in foreign service and sign up for cooperation with security services? Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u161	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u162	Mr. Senator, I'll start by determining political questioning. I, speaking of a political problem, do not mean some pejorative meaning of the word "political." This is not a formal issue, and therefore everything is in this sense a policy. And politics is because... even if it's enough to look at the history of our homeland after 1989. There is a very broad question of why it was so and not so. By comparing this with other countries of Eastern Europe block. I can only say that it was better late than never, if I could not do it earlier, because there was no such political will, there were no such conditions. Why didn't Law and Justice do so during their previous reigns? I find it difficult to answer that question because I was not a parliamentarians of Law and Justice at the time. Yeah, but the governments were probably too short, or maybe there were too many current problems, and it was a coalition government, and it was a tough coalition. We proceed to this now, at this particular moment. There's probably some internal logic to these proceedings. I'm glad it's happening because it's kind of a close-up process. I can't imagine that foreign service wouldn't go through this kind of process. Therefore, I stress this once again: better late than never. There was talk, Mr. Senator, about these estimates of how many people this might be about, but at this point, I don't remember so precisely. There are representatives of the Ministry here. If it's necessary, they'll give you answers. But it's quite a bunch of people who'll go through with this sort of illustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u164	That's what I'd say. May I, Mr. Marshal? [[Please.]] What else is the illustration, the new requirements of the present law, and what else is the treatment of persons who have already been mirrored and made such or other statements, such as positive ones, and their fate. This is a completely different matter. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, I have spoken on this matter. And then I thought that this treatment was completely unfair and unfair to those who, years ago in good faith, made a positive illustrative statement, and only now, as a result of the entry into force of this law, are about to lose their jobs within 60 days. I thought it was completely wrong. Currently, there are arguments that there are constitutional doubts about this as well. I would like to address these issues in an individual speech. As for the number of people... I'll tell you one more thing. But that wasn't in the committee meeting anymore. I personally believe that this is actually another personnel bill that the ruling party is carrying out. That is, it releases a significant number of places in the foreign service and will fill them according to its will. That's it. That's my position. With regard to the number of persons affected by this law, what else is the number of persons, well-known, who have made positive illustrative statements There's a few hundred of them, the Minister will know better than I do, but that's a few hundred people, if I'm not mistaken, as far as I remember from the committee meeting. And what else is the number of people who will be re-enacted. And we don't really know what the result will be with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u166	I'm here to see Senator Wach. You have already announced, Senator, that you will speak of constitutional doubts in your speech. And that's exactly what I'd like to ask you. Did you address these issues? What does our Legislative Office say about this, and what is said in other studies? I'm just asking because things like that... It wasn't about depriving ex-workers, but for example. to reduce the pension. It is known that because of this the legitimacy of our parliamentary decisions has been undermined. Today we have, seems to dozens of cases, if not more than thousands of cases in courts. Did you talk about this, or isn't there such a threat in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u167	The Commission has essentially been doing this, albeit rather quickly. The Legal Office... the opinion on this is in the materials, so you can get a good look at it. Nevertheless, in my view, what a representative of the Legislative Office said at the committee meeting and what is contained in the document prepared, i.e. in the Senate's opinions, is very similar. That is, in the constitutional issue, the office did not properly speak or speak very carefully. His reservations, rather general, were laid out... I don't think they're in the opinion. They relate to the position of the Council of Europe from years ago, in which it itself recognised the illustrative process and, as a result, the loss of work by public officials, including diplomats, as valid and possible, had a reservation to the time horizon in which this is to take place. Which, in fact, Senator Pięk mentioned in his report. I'll tell you what. But that's what he said. The position of the UN Human Rights Committee, which has also taken a position on this matter. This can be addressed, but not now, because it was not discussed at the committee meeting. As far as the Legal Office is concerned, actually What you can easily see in the materials The comments concerned mainly legislative issues and strong ambiguities as regards the categories of persons included in the diplomatic service. In fact, it is settled and untangled in this position and in the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u168	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u169	Mr Senator, rapporteur, do you consider this to have been discussed at the committee meeting? For the rational carrying out, as it were, within a few days of the exchange, 1,200 employees? And do you think that these amendments, which include. I fold, were they the subject of a political game? Second question. The case of Ambassador Przyłębski in Berlin was also discussed. Does this mean that there will be a change of this new ambassador as this, I would say, who so far does not know whether he was a secret collaborator or not? And this is important because of the level of relations with the western great neighbour. And a third. It's rare for Senator Martynowski to change his mind. We accept the law without amendments And now he's changed his mind. Is that the final sentence of the PiS team? As I understand it, these aren't Senator Martynowski's amendments, they're probably minorities, because, as I recall, We accepted these amendments. You define our attitude as political. Don't you think your attitude is obscrant?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as I can remember, I'm the one who applied for the bill without amendment. Senator Martynowski made the first legislative proposal on this law and now submitted it in plenary. You know very well that it was mostly about continuing to proceed with the bill, because you, Senator, have made such a request to postpone the procedure of this law. [[Yeah, yeah.]] We could therefore not proceed in this plenary. That's what we wanted. But I already said at the committee meeting that it is theoretically possible to clarify this law in plenary. And that's what's happening. What will be the outcome of this, of course I cannot predict, because for this it is necessary to vote on these amendments and on the entire act. Therefore, I think that this action is most rational, that there is nothing obskurant about it. It makes sense, it is logical within the framework of some pragmatic political and parliamentary action. And I also support what I said at the committee meeting, namely: it is often the case that certain legal ambiguities can be resolved in different ways depending on what the legal viewpoint is. Some believe that these amendments are necessary in order for this law to work unambiguously, efficiently, effectively. I believe that there was also a view to the defence that the meaning of these provisions could be interpreted from the provisions of other laws and that the law would also defend itself. And what view will prevail, we will see in the vote. I would still like to take advantage of the fact that I am standing by the vote to refer to the case concerning the representations of persons who have made such statements in the past. But what's different is to make representations, just like in the election, and... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Quiet, please. If you want to talk to each other, I ask you to leave the room and allow us to continue speaking to the senator. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. What else is making such statements, e.g. in the case of candidates in elections and later to give voters a decision as to whether they consider such a declaration to disqualify these candidates or not... However, I believe that it is right for foreign service to take such an approach that there is simply no place for such people in this service. Therefore, in these regulations I do not see anything that is inhumane or undemocratic. And I will also refer to these indications, these resolutions of the European institutions. It seems that Senator Cichoń argued that, in his wisdom, the European institutions had taken various resolutions on this subject, including those which, as it were, mobilized the states of the Eastern Block, the states that came out of communism, to carry out the process of decommunization, illustriousness, and according to them, this is as much in terms of a democratic rule of law as possible. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I haven't received...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u171	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u172	I have not received an answer to two questions about the ambassador in Germany, Mr. Przyłębski. I understand that this is a difficult question for the rapporteur, and therefore I am transferring it to the representative of the government. But I'm not going away from the third question, Senator rapporteur. Do you think it's rational for you to change 1 000 200 employees from a quiet bunch of people every day, because so many have made a positive illustrative statement at the expense of service efficiency? Therefore, the obvious question arises: do you, as a PiS, already have the next 1,200 people prepared?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u173	This is, Mr. Senator, just as a question to the department, not to me as a senator... [[Oh, yeah.]] ...because I'm not gonna cast those vacancies. [[And there wasn't a letter in Jachrance, Mr. Senator?]] Mr. Senator, let's be serious. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yeah, it's a quiet crack.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u174	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u175	I would like to continue with this thread that you have extended to Senator Rulewski. I'd like to ask, Mr. Senator, if there was any discussion of these people... If it's 1 000 200 people, can the Foreign Ministry... The point is that the time when the Foreign Minister will have to complete this deficit is a maximum of 60 days after the entry into force of this law. My question is whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is preparing a diplomatic corps that can replace officials who are currently in office within 60 days. And are these officials not only well prepared from the right education, knowledge of foreign languages, etc., etc., but also having the right work experience, which will allow for a smooth taking over of responsibilities, in such a way that this does not affect relations between Poland and countries where those workers are currently serving in diplomatic service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u176	Mr. Senator, I will consistently redirect this question to the representatives of the Ministry... [[Good.]] ...because I'm not competent to talk about it. All I can say is that they're definitely preparing and that they're definitely creating the right mechanisms. Whatever, you'll tell the minister exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u177	Mr. Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u178	Unfortunately, I could not attend the committee meeting, so I could not ask the questions I would now ask. Some time ago, at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, a similar amendment in substance was tabled by Senator Żaryn. She was then rejected in the Senate plenary. Has the fact that the people who will be deleted in science been discussed at the committee meeting? I am not interested in why the Senate then rejected the amendment, which is de facto similar to what the Foreign Service Act is currently doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u179	Mr President, this issue was not discussed at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly. And why, at the meeting of the Scientific Committee, this amendment was rejected, I do not know, because I did not attend this meeting. Well, so common sense seems to me that scientific activity and political activity, which is foreign service, are all kinds of activities. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u180	Thank you for all your questions. There's no more. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes? No. [[Voice from the room: But maybe there are questions for you.]] Wait a minute, I asked if the Minister wanted to speak. He doesn't have to. You can ask questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. We invite the Minister here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u181	Minister, tell me how many people will be affected by this bill. You have a thorough understanding of how many of the sample statements were made, how many employees or persons in these categories submitted information that they were co-workers or officers under cover. Well, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was a place where I think there were more officers under cover than co-workers. What does it look like right now? And second, a little indiscreet question that you don't have to answer, but we have to ask ourselves that question. Is this kind of activity, such a custom over the current and applied by our new services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u182	Thank you very much, especially to Marshal Borusewicz, because this question will in fact allow me a precise answer to previous questions. So thank you very much for your kindness, Mr. Marshal. The point is that these people, according to Minister Jacek Chaputowicz, are 40. So this one thousand 200 people that we talked about earlier... Well, I wonder where she came from. In general, we are currently talking about a law that will potentially cover, as I stress, 1 000 532 people from the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, a slightly strange presumption has emerged here that we want to get rid of 1,000 200 out of 1,000 500 people. Well, I don't believe anyone from the senators or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would want to make a bill that would make him quit the 3/4 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs day by day. So I do not confirm the information about 1 000 200 persons, as suggested by Marshal Borusewicz. That's a different number. As I said, Minister Chaputowicz declared that this is about 40 people today. At the same time, I stress that it is impossible to define at the moment because of the provisions that are contained in this law. This law, as the senator said, concerns de facto 2 categories of persons: on the one hand, those who have already made statements and, on the other hand, those who have not made statements but will be subject to this law. Therefore, we are not able to tell whether it will be 40 people, whether it will be 41 people, whether it will be 60 people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u183	Again, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u184	Yeah, yeah. Minister, now my second question. The list of persons is defined so that you know what they are. Well, it could still be, as you say... It's approximately a dozen people, if I remember correctly. Wouldn't it be better to just terminate the deal with them, which is to release them, rather than run the whole legislative machine? So there's a suspicion that this isn't just about... [[Voice from the room: Cleansing.]] ...to get rid of co-workers and staff working under cover at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's why the concerns you've probably heard. Could you accept that it's not just about co-workers, it's about carrying out another purge at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? You guys are pretty clean at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I understand another purge would be useful. Well, I don't understand why this bill should only apply to a few dozen people. Even if the current ambassador in Berlin were on this list, I wouldn't understand why the bill was for either.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u186	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. I'm sorry, but I haven't answered my previous question about other countries yet. Well, here, the model is of course the Federal Republic of Germany, which carried out the illustration in a way, you can say, perfect, and immediately. At the moment, there is no problem in the diplomatic service of Germany. And to answer the question, why are we doing this... Well, for one simple reason. If we did what the senator suggested, we'd have to terminate our employment contracts. And what reasons would we give? We would not be legally empowered to do so. If, as the senator suggests, we were to terminate the agreements because of cooperation, first of all, we would be exposed to court proceedings before labour courts and potential compensation payments, which would clearly affect the Ministry's budget, even if we were talking about these dozens of people. Secondly, if these people were dissatisfied with court judgments, we would be exposed to trials before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And the adoption of this bill, proposed, reminds me, by Members, will make these 2 problems not be problems. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u187	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm asking you what I've asked you before. Well, now the answer's easy, I hope. At that time, I operated on 1,200 people, and you narrowed down the boundaries of this change to 40 people. And here's the question: is it easy to find Mr. Przyłębski's statement and is the replacement ready? And the second question is: what is the attitude of the Minister or the Government towards the conclusions of minorities taken over by the hostile takeover by Senator Martynowski and reported as his. I would like to point out that I am in my own private, selfish interest. These amendments, which have become the request of minorities, were, among others, My authorship, however, was mostly proposed by the legislative department. Well, I'm defending my rights. Will you support this amendment taken over by Senator Martynowski, the amendments by the Civic Platform proposed by the legislative department?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u189	In reply to the first question, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions of the contested law in this case, which the senator mentioned, but in the same way in all other cases, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the contractor of that law and is not the determining entity who is subject to that law. Because this law was mentioned in the Senator's statement, they are subject to those persons who either made a declaration of cooperation, or, as it turns out, should have, in so far as possible, submitted it. The decision whether a person has made a true or false illustrative statement does not belong to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, that is my answer to the question about the person of your ambassador. Please excuse me from answering the question of hostile takeover, because I do not feel competent to determine this kind of relationship. But no doubt I say the same in the Sejm, for every law discussed in the Sejm, and I will repeat the same in the Senate. In my opinion, any amendment that aims at clarifying and improving the provisions of the Act is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u190	You're asking Senator Slugocki. [[But he didn't answer the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the positions taken by people who may possibly lose their jobs after the law we are proceding today has entered into force. Perhaps Minister Chaputowicz has this knowledge when he suggests that it is about 40 people who can answer the question: how many of these 40 are ambassadors? I'm not asking about personalities. I'm asking about numbers. How many ambassadors, how many consuls, etc., etc.? Do you have such knowledge today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u193	We don't have that kind of knowledge. [[Voice from the room: It's impossible.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u194	All the speakers have already spoken. Mr. Marshal would like to ask you a few more questions. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u195	I'd like to know what kind of situation we're in in a formal sense. I ask because I hear that an amendment has been tabled, actually taken over by the PiS, and the agenda of the Sejm shows that this bill is to be passed tomorrow, this bill, which will come out of us, is to be voted out tomorrow. How did you even... Will there be a change in this regard? We're working in extraordinary mode again. After discussing this bill, we would vote, this bill would go back to the Sejm and be voted out tomorrow. Is this gonna take longer? If the Minister knows anything about this procedure, I'd ask for some information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u196	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u197	I would like to be excused from the answer to the agenda for the Sejm and the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u198	Good. I have one more question for you. Since very often important laws are sent to us, which are presented as parliamentary laws, I ask the ministers a standard question and I ask you this question: is this law written by you or by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, only signed by Members or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u200	To answer this question, I can appeal to the discussion that took place at the session of the Parliamentary Committee. It was said there that this was part of the novel which was examined in the Seym and was proposed by Members as an element which is part of a major amendment of the law. That's how this project was born. [[No. Minister, I'm asking you...]] Neither I nor the Foreign Office with this bill in the sense of writing, as... [[That's it.]] I thought I was just saying this, but then I'm gonna say, "The Foreign Office and I haven't written this bill personally." [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u201	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u202	Thank you very much. I'm very sorry, Minister, but I'll keep digging. Since you have no knowledge of how many ambassadors there are, my question is: are you prepared to change 40 ambassadors within 60 days of the entry into force of the Act? I'm asking because you don't have that kind of knowledge, but that kind of threat could theoretically exist. Will this not paralyze the work of Polish diplomatic services outside the borders of the Polish state? Because we cannot rule out that among these 40 people there are just 40 Polish ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u203	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u204	I have to appeal to the bill again. I would point out that this law does not cover all those who are ambassadors, but only those who meet the age criterion. And this is a very important limitation, contrary to appearances. In addition, I would point out that we are talking about a situation in which statements have been made, as was previously mentioned in the speeches of the senators, and therefore there is no such number among ambassadors and cannot walk 40 people. But above all, we are talking about this first criterion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u205	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question that's kind of going in a different direction. Namely I understand that they will lose the jobs of those who have submitted, let's call it a positive illustrative statement, which means they have admitted to cooperation. What about those who didn't agree to cooperate and cooperated? Are you able to extort such persons, in quotes, extortion? And is this procedure even possible? And one more thing. There's art here. 4, a transitional that says what needs to be done, what should be done by those who are obliged by this law to make a statement. What about the new employees? Because please note that they make a statement first and there is a deadline for that, then this statement is being examined. And it's only at the very end that there's proceedings, also long-term court proceedings, to see if anyone made a statement correctly or incorrectly. And he's still an employee. Isn't that some kind of inconsistency? Like it's worth lying about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u207	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u208	I think the first question Mr. Senator may have given himself an answer in a sense, because those people who haven't made a statement have to make it. At least that's what the bill says. As for the second element, I would like to point out, first of all, that we are talking about people who meet this age criterion, according to the way I was just responding to Mr. Senator. Secondly, since these persons are to be employed, they will necessarily be subject to the same procedure under this law as those working at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u209	I don't think we fully understand each other. Minister, the point is that someone can make a statement and write that he didn't cooperate or wasn't an officer, and in fact he was. And the question is, what about this person? Because then quite a long-term procedure begins. And according to this law, you can only fire the person who made a positive statement that she was a co-worker or cooperative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u210	When it comes to checking procedures in this case, it is more, I think, a question to the Institute of National Remembrance about how quickly it is able to carry out a check on a particular person. Let me remind you that we're saying... I understand that Mr. Senator is referring to specific people who will be eligible for work. Right? And another matter that I would like to draw your attention to. There is currently no practice in the Ministry to employ people who, I apologize for the term, come and say they want to be employed in the Ministry. The basic path... What Minister Chaputowicz is aiming for above all, is to employ people who will pass exams and complete the diplomatic and consulative application. And these are people who are necessarily, by age, not subject to the provisions of this law. Therefore, there will be no need to carry out investigations against these persons.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u211	Now you're asking Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u212	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a high opinion about diplomacy, and about diplomacy of the Republic of Poland in particular. I have a question about how the Minister will respond to the tweets of a man who had been appointed director general of foreign service 30 days earlier and with such innate modesty that, so to speak, he tweets that it took place after the vote in the Seym... that they couldn't handle it for 30 years, and I did it in 30 days. Well, it's not a diplomatic approach, because I understand that the ambassador in Berlin must slowly pack no matter what time we set. On the other hand, the same man, Mr.Papierz, reports on the TVP Info, that there are about 200 and 300 people to exchange, although I do not know how he knows, because the IPN has not yet spoken, but he estimates so. Doesn't that mark the bad intentions of this bill? I ask what your opinion is, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u213	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u214	When it comes to tweeting, I don't think... I mean. I can't answer here, but I don't think there's anything wrong with the tweet that the senator quoted. As for the second question, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that right now I've answered your senators' questions before, too. We are not able to define exactly what number of people we are talking about. As I mentioned, Minister Chaputowicz, who has, seems to me, the best orientation in this area, spoke of 40 people. But And that's what the senators also mentioned in their questions. We have one category of people in which we are not able to predict the scale of this phenomenon at the moment. It's about those people who are going to have to make a sample statement. And maybe that's what the Director General of Foreign Services meant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u215	Now you're asking Senator Rulewski. [[No, thank you very much. If I don't get an answer, thank you.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u216	Minister, in a new article. 2a point 2 is written that this law applies also to non-members of the foreign service, and at the end there is a reservation: "How long these persons are Polish citizens." So if you're working... And I imagine, I mean. I know that citizens of other countries or people with dual citizenship are working... So if such people, who are not Polish citizens, cooperated with the communist services, then their law does not apply. Why? Why should they be excluded from the action of this law? I understand that there may not be full information, but if there is, and such cases certainly have been, especially in the Eastern countries, then why this... different. Why should the ailments of this law apply only to Polish citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u218	I will answer in a nutshell: because they are not Polish citizens, we are therefore unable to hold people responsible, for example. reside outside the territory of Poland and have the nationality of the State in which they reside. Well, we don't have that kind of technical ability. There is no possibility, for example. apply to such persons a European arrest warrant and prosecute them as terrorists. [[Minister, this is about people employed in organizational units.]] An organizational unit... [[It's not about the ones that used to work together and are abroad. These are people who currently work or are employed in organisational units supervised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.]] I would point out that such individuals are e.g. Polish embassies, which are scattered around the world. [[Yes. But here you... Minister, you said that they were not under Polish law.]] No. I didn't say that. [[Yeah, well, that's right. Then why are these people excluded here on the basis that they are citizens of other countries who work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. with us? Why are they turned off from outside this vault?]] Mr Senator, as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, I cannot imagine a situation in which the Polish State speaks to a citizen in Romania or any other country of the country: please come, we want to give you a notice. I'm talking about a situation like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u219	It's clear. The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u220	Minister, I would, however, go back to the question asked by Senator Czerwinski, because this is very, very important. Assuming evil will... False statements made to the Foreign Minister go to the Institute of National Remembrance. There are both positive ones and negative ones going there. I say, sticking to this nomenclature. The President of the Institute of National Remembrance through his employees issues certificates which are, so to speak, wrongly expressed. And my question. Will those who will wrongly forge the historical truth about their own past automatically be subject to the Mirror Act, which means they will be subject to a reverse procedure in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to prove conscious cooperation with its employees?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u221	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u222	I think that here, Mr. Senator, we are already entering the question of competence, as I mentioned earlier, of the Institute of National Remembrance, of how it will determine the situation of these people. As I said before, we will be in this case, as in others, the contractor of the bill. Our reaction, in quotes, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will depend on the findings of the Institute of National Remembrance, including in this case, which you mentioned the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u223	The list of questions has been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion! Please take the floor of Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u224	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee meeting, with no specially far-reaching grounds, I had fundamental doubts, or, in fact, I would say, I was opposed to the article. 3, which says that the relations of persons employed in the foreign service, which have been confirmed by the vetting of the service in the bodies, expires within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act. Of course, such a position is very debatable. There are people who say it's okay, but I don't agree with them at all, and I still have constitutional arguments and other arguments. Namely, these people have made positive statements in good faith. It has been a long time, including three years of governments, which are very restrictive in this regard. During these three years, no one has bothered these people, and now they are about to lose their jobs in a short time. This isn't right. I don't agree with that at all, especially since these people could have been evaluated during their work, could have been controlled. And now all of a sudden, by law, they're gonna be pretty sudden, because within 60 days, they're gonna be fired. Most of them are probably abroad, and it will be difficult for them to organise their lives in a new situation. It's completely wrong. That's what I said at the committee meeting. In the meantime, I have also received formal confirmations on constitutional issues that deny such a case. For balance, I would like to say that I have no objections. as regards the fact that the State introduced a illustrative obligation in relation to a certain category of persons associated with the diplomatic service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These people can, first of all... They don't have much time, so this minority amendment makes sense. But... so that at least these people aren't surprised, because among other things. they may make false illustrative statements, if it were convenient for them, in accordance with what Minister Czerwiński asked, whether it was in time, if it was hoping that the documentation might not be complete. From an individual's point of view, it looks like if she knows in advance what's going to happen to her, she has a choice... If in good faith he makes a correct and true statement, it takes a very long time, including three years of current governments, which are so restrictive in this matter, at least formally, because you can also have reservations about this... It's just not right at all. Regarding this more formal part, I have the opinion of Dr. Ryszard Piotrowski of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, who also presents 4 points on the unconstitutionality of this law. This text is long, forty pages long, so much wider, many times more extensive than the law itself, so it doesn't make sense for me to quote it and try to explain what the law expert is teaching, but I can read a few sentences from what he wrote in the explanatory statement. He writes, among other things, that special services involving diplomats during the period of the Polish People's Republic were the same state services as the diplomatic service of this country, only those operating secretly. There is therefore no rational justification for the totality and automatic treatment of all those diplomats who were in secret service before the 1990s. It also says that the illustrator was not meant to punish people. It was about eliminating the risks to the new democracy posed by the person being judged. Also in such a descriptive part, in the explanatory memorandum, the lawyer writes that the UN Human Rights Committee by decision of 14 July 1997 accepted the position of the legislation of certain post-socialist countries, including Poland, refusing to remain in the public service to workers of former security authorities who did not pass the successful qualification procedure, but this procedure was individualised. However, the designer does not provide for any individual assessment of foreign service workers, which concerns this article. In relation to those who re-enact the illustration, it is possible to say yes, because that procedure is individual, but in relation to those, say quotes, forty people who made these positive statements, this is a collective procedure. This is completely wrong, and, as it turns out, the expert's assessment is not in line with the constitution. Apart from whether it's functional or not, whether it's late or not, whether these people have already hurt our country or not, it just looks like revenge or purge, and I can't agree with that at all. I am making amendments, and these amendments mostly concern what the Legislative Office has put forward, because, in view of the fact that there will be a committee meeting, and because the bill is returning to the Sejm, these various inaccuracies and incorrigibilitys in determining the category of employees that raised the office can be taken into account in one instance. There's no point in keeping up those mistakes. Among these amendments, as the second point, I included the amendment, which concerns what I was talking about here mainly, namely Article. 3. And this amendment is such that the provision of the Article. 2a of the amended law shall not apply to persons who, before the date of entry into force of this Law, have deposited the documents referred to in Article. 7. In short, I would like to exclude, with this amendment, that, so to speak, those persons with a complex positive mirror declaration from having to be excluded from the diplomatic service. The other amendments are as acceptable as possible, coming from the office and properly ordering and improving the law, and those who are not, so to speak, in the very intention. Mr. Marshal, thank you and I make these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u225	Thank you, Senator. Now you have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...it's a bill that seems It should be obvious. But I'll also say that I voted in favour of mirrors at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Fellas of yours...]] And so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators! Don't disturb the senator.]] [[I'm sorry.]] Therefore, those who have made a judgment statement, who have confessed to their cooperation, may feel deceived by me. Because the rule was, if you make a statement that's true, you're safe. This principle is also applied in all other areas of public life, including as regards parliamentarians. And now you're proposing a bill that's actually on the basis of these illustrative statements to get these people out of work. You create two categories: those who behaved honestly and finally wrote honestly that they were co-workers... And after what they wrote truthfully, you want to remove them. Those who have lied or lied will be subject to the examination procedure. The IPN will be looking for materials first. He'll find it, he won't find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, he'll find it, But there are also materials that indicate, and are not entirely reliable. And the procedure will continue, and they will work. I don't know how many years, two years, maybe they'll get away with it. Because they lied. So I have to say that it is perfectly right for those who, in good faith, have made true statements that they were co-workers, may have to people like me who voted in favour of this bill, complain that we deceived them. Poland is a democratic state of law. The legal situation cannot be changed in such a way that the consequences are hitting the people whom we have provided by law that they will not bear the consequences. Therefore, for constitutional reasons and, as I say, ethical reasons, this is not a good bill. You can't treat those who lied better because of this IPN procedure, the MFA continued and you won't be able to fire them than those who wrote the truth, those 40 who wrote the truth. And that is my fundamental reservation, Minister. But I also cannot accept these explanations on the basis of lack of explanation. Why should this law apply only to persons with Polish citizenship working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or foreign offices? There are a whole range of citizens in other countries. Didn't the PRL counterintelligence recruit people working in the administration to even protect the facility? And what, does that mean that if you weren't a Polish citizen or you have double citizenship, then we don't blame you at all for cooperating? I'm not saying KGB, because it's gonna be hard to prove, and this law doesn't apply to this service. And that's a shame, because this kind of infiltration was carried out in our fingers and some of the non-diplomatic workers during this period and still working in these institutions were recruited. So I can't understand it. The argument is that these are not Polish citizens, so we cannot bring them to Poland. But why bring them to Poland? If such information is in the resources of our services, or if such information is taken over by the service, or in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such information will exist... Well, why should citizens of other countries be treated better than Polish citizens? Therefore, Minister, this is not a good bill. These matters could and should be handled differently, not in such a way that we show that the principles of a democratic rule of law do not apply. They all apply to us, and also to those who have made some mistake in their lives, and then confessed to this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u227	You have a voice, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u228	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I do not know whether what I am going to say, order, or vice versa, will affect the additional extension of the topics, but I would like to reassure Marshal Borusewicz that when it comes to the issue of citizenship and other issues relating to how employment contracts are currently being signed by institutions under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these are completely different, I understand, legal solutions that secure or allow such safeguards to be sought, including. counter-intelligence. Here we are discussing the issue of a law, which also has marks, as you know, historical settlement. Of course, it would be best if it came into force in the 1990s. However, it enters into force today when we have some sort of legal order, including the order that comes from the existence of the constitution that we all fall under. On the one hand, it is appropriate to agree, Mr Marshal, with the first part of your speech, but on the other hand it is appropriate to ask: and who in Poland, in the Third Republic, has led us to be in such a legal framework and not in others? I mean, no doubt it can happen like this. From here our questions, my and Senator Czerwinski's, to the Minister That really the beneficiaries will be to some extent those who, like... Well, some of them are already sacred in memory today, so I don't want to call their names, but they lied to them until the day they died, and therefore they became beneficiaries of this lie. But we are living in the legal realities in which we must function, and indeed the Illustrative Act is the law that gives liars the chance to never reach him, at least on this earth, justice. In view of this, however, I have the impression that it is not more important that in one of the laws that were previously passed, there has been the signing of an unwritten contract with people who are positive, i.e. according to the truth, about their cooperation with the communist regime, but there is a much higher value, i.e. the security of an independent Polish country. And this is a security that is more important than signing contracts with former pests of the Polish state, when their harmfulness can continue to persist. We always try to balance these values, which are more and less important to us, and we choose a more important one, namely the security of the Polish state. It seems to me, then, that your conclusion, Mr. Marshal, that this is a law of evil, is a conclusion of evil, because we are a party which is part of the legislation that has been arising in recent decades, and at the same time we are trying to correct what can be corrected. Today we are unable to change the entire procedure of the court of illustration, the whole law which is and functions, so let us give ourselves the chance at least that under the existing legislation we will take care of the security of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u229	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Wach and Senator Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held after the session is adjourned until 5 p.m. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u230	The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Foreign Service and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents will take place today 20 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 44 to 17 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u231	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the second agenda: agreeing to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Before the session was adjourned, the Sejm's spokesperson on the rights of the child answered the senators' questions. We therefore now proceed to the vote on the acceptance of the appointment of Mr Nicholas Paweł Pawlak's child's spokesperson. Who is in favour of consenting to the appointment of Santa Paul Paul Pawlak as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 26 against. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has agreed to the appointment of Mr Nicholas Paweł Pawlak as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution from the Senate. [[Everybody up.]] [[Marshal Stanisław Karczewski presents the resolution]] [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on disclosure of documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, took a common position on this matter. It is available in print No 1025 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee. Senator, talk to me. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees at the meeting considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 12 December. The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 2, 6, 8 and 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? You have reached conclusions during the discussion by Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Piotr Wach. In addition, Senator Piotr Wach was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. [[No, thank you.]] No. We therefore proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. The first vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted against it, and they were all against it. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 ensures the adequacy of the provision setting out the scope and subjective scope of the Foreign Service Act to the content of that law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 takes account of the fact that the managers of the foreign minister's office are part of the foreign service corps. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 3 and 12, which should be voted on together, aim to ensure that the law does not apply to persons who submitted a illustrative document before the date of entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 28 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 3 and 12 were rejected. We are therefore voting on Amendments 4, 7 and 10 to be voted on together. These amendments extend the expiry dates provided for by the Act for persons who have cooperated with the safety authorities, as well as the deadlines for drawing up a list of persons required to submit illustrative documents, the transmission of information on persons who have submitted illustrative documents confirming their cooperation with the safety authorities before the date of entry into force of the Act and the notice of termination of the employment relationship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 28 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 7]] Amendments 4, 7, 10 were rejected. Amendments 6 and 11, which must be voted on together, harmonise the terminology of the law and the way in which the corresponding content is expressed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendments 6 and 11 were accepted. Amendment 8 adds the missing provision specifying at which point the employment relationship of the person covered by the law will expire in the event of his failure to submit a illustrative document within the time limit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9... [[Voice from the room: We don't vote...]] We don't vote for her because we took the eighth. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the whole thing. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 60 against, 6 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on disclosure of documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you give us some important information now. A change in the order of examination of the fourth paragraph, i.e. a law amending the law amending the excise duty law, and considering this point tomorrow. And now I propose that we proceed to the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services. The text is contained in print No. 1029, and the committee's report In print No 1029 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law concerns the maintenance of VAT rates at the current level, i.e. 23% for the basic rate and 8% in the case of a reduced rate. As this year, the rates raised periodically by the Civic Platform government a few years ago will apply. A novelty in this solution, in this bill is this... So far, annual increases have been individually extended by 1% each year. VAT, and this amendment proposes replacing this annual increase or maintaining the increased VAT rate with a new mechanism whereby the increased tax rates are 23% and 8% , will remain in force until the debt of the public finance sector is below 43% in relation to GDP. And only when we reach this rate below 43% will we return to the rate of VAT 7% And 22%. Our Senate Legislative Office has made one comment on this bill. The point is that it is an amendment to the Act and it enters into force on 1 January 2019. And here, a representative of the Legislature Bureau said that you shouldn't... He pointed out such a theoretical issue concerning one day, namely that the current provisions introducing these higher VAT rates expire on 31 December and the Act enters into force on 1 January. And that's not what you should do in legislation. The Legal Office's representative proposed the simplest solution: that the current law should enter into force on 31 December. Then there would be no doubt about it one day. However, representatives of the Ministry of Finance claimed that this mechanism was as legitimate as possible, it was previously used and there is no doubt that since 1 January 2019 VAT rates will be 8% in Poland. And 23%. Only one senator, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, spoke in the discussion, who asked, among other things, what is the path of the investigation to this reduced level and when these reduced VAT rates can apply. This is the Ministry, the Ministry's representatives, the Deputy Minister and the Director of the Department... The department director said that for 2017 this debt was 47.7%. For the current year it is planned to be 45.9% And it's probably going to be even lower. It's hard to tell when we're gonna get these indicators. In the very pessimistic option it will be 2021. But this is such a very pessimistic option, rather we assume that this ratio is less than 43% faster. But, as the Minister said, we must maintain healthy skepticism. The Commission voted in favour by a majority without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u235	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski volunteered. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the issue that was quite loud, namely VAT on veterinary medicines. How is this situation described? I am asking because we have also witnessed the President's statement on this matter, so this is important for this issue. Was this subject discussed? How is this now written in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u237	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u238	This issue was not discussed. But it doesn't involve this bill at all. We are introducing a base rate and a reduced rate. And the various categories of products concerned by the basic rate or reduced rate are the result of the regulation, I do not remember whether the President of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Finance. But that is not the case at all, i.e. directly. I'm sure there's a reduced rate of medication today, and from what you write or say, it's going to be that basic rate. So she's... Here we are talking about the level of these rates, not the categories of products or services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u239	Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u240	Mr Marshal, Mr President, rapporteur, I would like to ask about this political context regarding the increase in VAT, which is proposed by law and justice. Raising VAT by our government, the Civic Platform government, was a transitional solution, it was a decision that was made in a very difficult economic situation in Poland. This was an increase of 1% to 23%. This solution has expired. Law and Justice introduced a rate of 23% How it took over. It's the third year of law and justice. The tax and income situation, as we all say, is much better than in previous years, and the Law and Justice, which in our time of government so strongly criticised this decision, but at the moment introduces an increase in VAT rate to 23% and does so, is already introducing this solution as a permanent mechanism. Because even the Minister himself said that it is necessary to be very sceptical about the time when this tax will be reduced and restored to its former condition. How will you politically explain the change in your rhetoric when you criticized us and the situation was definitely different then?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u241	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u242	Senator, first question: Law and Justice doesn't raise taxes. [[He's picking up...]] But Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Senator, this tax you introduced expires on 31 December, and from 1 January you will raise the tax by 1%. Well, there's no other way. Yes, sir.]] Senator, once again, law and justice don't raise VAT. We hold on to what you guys did in 2011. In particular, you have raised VAT rates from 22% to 23% and from 7% to 8%. And every year, this increase in VAT rates funded by the Civic Platform government, Mr. Donald Tusk's government, and then continued by Mrs. Ewa Kopacz's government, was maintained. And we, too, over the three years of this mechanism... This mechanism was maintained. But it wasn't Law and Justice that raised VAT rates. According to this bill, we're maintaining again for another year or for the following years... We keep these increased VAT rates at 23% and 8%. Here we are introducing a new mechanism, as long as this is in force, and we are linking this with some indicators of the public finance sector. If these indicators are maintained, then as if by law the rate of VAT will be restored to 7% and 22% which is the government of the Civic Platform and most of the PO-PSL raised. I'm sorry to put it this way, sir, but the senator himself wanted this politically raised, so I remind you. I don't know if the senator was a senator at the time, but if you were, you probably voted for it, too. As to why these rates have been maintained over the next few years, which is why we have continued our policy in this area, I can say that we have been implementing a lot of social programmes today: the 500+ programme, the early retirement programme or the Senior Medicines programme. Of course, today we maintain these social programs largely from sealing resources, from the gigantic sealing of VAT, but every economist knows that here we have rigid expenditures. Here we are talking about a certain process of sealing the tax system. That is why the Minister spoke of some healthy scepticism, which we must preserve, given the instability of certain economic, general, global forecasts, because this year we have one of the highest economic growth rates, more than 5%, is even more than the various experts assumed this year. But we have to be careful. And that's why the government doesn't want to introduce such a... In order to maintain a certain degree of stability for taxpayers to know what VAT rates are, a mechanism has been introduced, i.e. if certain macroeconomic indicators are achieved in public finances, then without any quotes, this tax will be restored. This is such a safe solution, not only for the state budget, but also for the whole financial sector. [[Voice from the room: I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u243	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I have a question. Mr. Senator, where did you get this 43%? the national income below which when it comes down, the tax will be reduced? Where's that indicator coming from? Can you explain?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u244	That wasn't the question at the committee meeting. I think the Minister will be more competent to explain this indicator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u245	Good. Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u246	Mr. Senator, once again, I must say that this increased tax, 20-30%, expired on 31 December 2015. You made a decision in 2016 and adopted the Act on the increase of tax to 23% and later, in the following years you did the same. I'm also talking about all the rhetoric you used before, and now you're completely changing it. That's the point. So, after all, taxes have been raised by you, and that's what I'm going to say. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u247	Senator, I'm explaining to you once again, as best I can: we didn't raise VAT, we extended the increased tax that the Platform and PSL government introduced. I can only remind Donald Tusk's words that everyone in his government, who raises VAT, will be thrown out of this government, sounded something like that, I say more or less, because I am saying this from memory. And yet then Mr Donald Tusk and all the other Members and Senators of the Civic Platform and PSL voted in favour of raising VAT rates. [[With the opposition of the Law and Justice, which today is exactly the opposite...]] [[Voices from the O.R.:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u248	Don't discuss it now, gentlemen. There are questions, and there's an answer. Any more questions? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I asked this question to the Minister, but the Minister replied as an official, not as a politician. And I took it. You're declaring what you're declaring here, which means it's not a raise, it's a continuation. You know, the kind of fun... whatever you call it, I'd say a little rougher than that, but I'm not gonna say it. I will ask you as a politician: do you know the 2015 Law and Justice Programme? If you know the VAT section, I'd ask you to quote it. Did you sign up for this? That's the first question: on this program... [[Was that the subject of a committee meeting?]] [[It wasn't at the committee meeting.]] Come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come [[That wasn't at the committee meeting.]] Was there a question of the continuation of the rates of 8% in this programme? and 23% ? Because I don't remember, I'm gonna admit it. That's one question. Two. You didn't mention it... [[There was nothing...]] Senator Bierecki... You can answer together, gentlemen, please, you can answer together... I'll be asking questions... Second question. Mr. Senator, I was asking... You said... I was speaking, but I'd like you to explain the matter, tell me how you understand it. Is raising VAT the only instrument in the financial market linked to the fact that debt will be reduced to 43% of GDP? I asked that question, and I'd ask you to answer it. [[That's not in this bill.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u250	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, to answer the question... As Mr Bierecki rightly said, these political aspects were not raised at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. And the senator knows that very well because he was an active participant in this debate. That's one thing. And to answer the senator's second question... Of course, it is not only by maintaining increased VAT rates that we increase our revenue. All that the government is doing in this term of office to seal the tax system, first Prime Minister Beata Szydło and later Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, this is a series actions aimed at ensuring that these VAT receipts are made. And now what's the difference... or is there a certain philosophy of the Platform government and the PiS government? What's the difference in this philosophy? I'm sorry to say so politically. When your VAT receipts started falling, you guys raised your rates. The easiest thing to do. And we, when we took over... [[You've lowered it. And everything.]] We, Mr. Senator, did not lower them because we found such a gap in VAT, estimated at many tens of billions of PLN... We can argue whether it is bigger or smaller. I'm sure you have your calculations, the government has yours. But the European Commission is talking about the gap in VAT. The International Monetary Fund says that in Poland such a huge gap in VAT was... [[And it's still there.]] But... [[Luka's always there.]] But, Senator... [[Don't disturb me.]] And we have taken a whole range of sealing actions, for which we also need to thank the Platform senators sometimes, because for many of our sealing system projects, which the government proposed, the Senators of the Civic Platform also voted for. So these actions were so many that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...today we have this situation... that we have managed to bring about a situation where we probably have a budget surplus today, despite the introduction of a lot of expensive social programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u252	Thank you. Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Maybe Senator Bierecki can give you a hint. And here's what I'm saying: maybe this was part of the committee meeting you weren't on. But after the Minister's speech, please. I asked the same question about the political declaration at the committee meeting and the Minister replied. That's one thing. So it was mentioned at the committee meeting. That's the first thing. So... But you might have forgotten. I'm sending it back to the transcript. I'm sure there's a record there. And since you raised the issue of the gap, I would have one question for you. Could you tell us the planned size of the VAT gap in 2018 and what it was in 2017? If you could let us know if you're talking about the gaps and narrowing this gap...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u254	Mr. Senator, I... [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] You refer me to some transcripts, and I will send you back to today's speech by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who spoke very clearly about the sealing of the VAT system, all the advantages, the disadvantages of this system, the actions that were taken and which the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is planning... [[You guys could switch.]] No, you know, I'm the senator, Prime Minister Morawiecki is the best prime minister we have... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for many, many years. And if the senator had listened to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's speech today, I think a lot of doubt would be... [[To find out.]] ...disappeared.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u255	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Bravo.]] [[Applause]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Filip Świtala like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If you... You're welcome, Minister. [[I have questions.]] There'll be questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: I am so sorry, but I think I will answer questions.]] Okay, of course. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question, which I have already asked the Senator, the rapporteur, who in turn sent it back to the regulation. What kind of winds are blowing? I'd ask because in this case... I'm saying... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: About drugs.]] ...at the level of VAT on veterinary medicines, as this raises a broad debate. I think it would be good if the Minister explained that. Then the public would be clear about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u257	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u258	I'll explain, of course. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It seems that, of course, the rates are set in the laws, formally rather than in the regulations. We've prepared a bill that we call the VAT matrix, where we sort out the VAT rates. Many of these rates for basic products are reduced, bread rates are reduced, baby products are reduced, baby products are reduced, for example. fish and their products. These are small reductions which are primarily designed to simplify the application of these rates by entrepreneurs, because they are responsible for whether they are applying the right rate. The second important element of this law is the draft of binding joint information, which means as an administration we will issue... we will take responsibility for what should be the rate associated with the goods or the service. We're going to give businesses the confidence they're going to apply, and we want this certainty to be related to the goods, not to the entrepreneur. So if we give a binding joint information about a commodity, it's going to go along with the whole chain of sales that it's gonna go through. To answer the question about veterinary medicines, it was not our intention to raise the rate for veterinary medicines in this project. Rather, our intention was to make the food healthy so that there would be no rewriting... In short, the point was that there was no such thing as medication, let's say, outside veterinarians would be more expensive, because the prescription of the medicine by a veterinarian, its sale by a veterinarian would still be taxed at 8%. Because there are a lot of concerns and partly justified demands concerning e.g. animal shelters where drugs are prescribed by veterinarians, but there is no longer this ultimate consumer, which means you cannot sell veterinary services... Then, in these cases, this higher rate would actually be applied. We are still consulting on this issue and, most likely, we will almost certainly decide to withdraw from this idea to introduce 23% rate on veterinary medicines outside veterinarians. So there's almost certainly not going to be an increase in this rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u259	Good. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u260	I understand that there is no final, definitive decision in this case, but all indications are that it will remain as it is, i.e. That's how you reschedule it, if I understand correctly. And my second question. The debate also raised the issue of different qualifications of bakery products depending on the composition. What's the story? It's just that one piece, let's say, had a smaller one... and already some piece, let's say, of another composition would be... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Yes, yes.]] This, in turn, complicated the lives of the producers. What's the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u261	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u262	We are also proposing to resolve this issue in this project, which is currently being consulted. In answer to your first question, I must say that the consultation period has not yet expired, because it runs until 15 December, so that we are still collecting votes. This is an important issue. She will also have her translation or reflection in the change of different computer systems. So it's such a big change. To answer the question about bread... The current situation is that we have 3 rates that are applied to bread, i.e. 23% 8% And 5%. Various breads are classified differently, first of all, depending on the date on which they are fit for consumption. There are 14 days and 45 days. The second criterion is composition, as you rightly pointed out. Depending on the amount of added sugar, some types of bread that we treat as regular bread are treated as cookies, so there is a higher rate. We wanted to sort it out. It's not in this bill, of course. This is a project that, as I say, is only in the middle of a public consultation. We propose to simplify this now in such a way that just for the whole bread, regardless of these factors, whether composition or durability, there will be a rate of 5%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u263	Thank you. Minister, I have a question for you. Where's the 43% pointer? ? 'Cause it could be 40%. It'd be more round. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Yes. I'll tell you what.]] There could also be 45%. So you don't bring it in... Now you'd have to pull out of the tax. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u264	Let me get this straight. In the draft law, we adopted some tough criteria that are linked to macroeconomic policy. Index 43% results directly from the Public Finance Act. This is the degree of net debt, which is envisaged as one of the factors taken into account when calculating the so-called. the budgetary anchor, which is the indicator on which the budget expenditure that can be allowed to be planned for the following year really depends. I spoke during the committee's work about healthy skepticism. This healthy skepticism is about this... We always plan certain indicators, we plan how they will evolve in the future, with such healthy skepticism, I would say even pessimistic. Life, however, shows In particular, this has been the case recently with regard to the economic performance of the company, that real indicators are generally a little better than what we are forecasting. E.g. GDP for this year was projected at ca. 3,5% (3,8%) But we already know it's going to be about 5%. or even exceed 5%. As we plan the budget, we treat the indicators with a certain reserve. Those 43% It's an indicator that's pretty healthy... [[Minister, of course I'm not a specialist, but to me... you're an economist. You're probably referring to another bill...]] Public finances. [[Finance. That's where the anchor's entered at the level of...]] That's exactly what's called a stabilizing spending rule. [[Good. And can you explain why 43%? Do I get a reason?]] I'll admit there's no golden justification here. It's safe because it's well below 50%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u265	Good. Senator Stanisławek reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. This case is still in the public consultation. I will raise a similar question about the composition of bread and tax. It's about the juice tax. There are a lot of protests from Polish companies that produce juices. The action of this tax as a health-promoting action is denied by it. If there's 5% at the moment and this will be raised to 23%, this society will reach for unhealthy soft drinks, carbonated drinks containing sugar, which is easy to produce. That's the trend in the world. In Poland we have a large consumption of juices, which is beneficial for society. Raising the stakes can have the opposite effect, unhealthy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u267	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By designing new rates in the VAT matrix, we wanted to introduce such a rule that we would reduce to 5% the rate on juices, which contain 100% juice, that's for those juices that are healthy. But we'll keep or raise the stakes for sodas or juices that have high sugar content, so they're not particularly healthy. Therefore, our assumptions are based on the preference for juices containing less added sugar or no added sugar at all. In these juices 100% especially apple juice, which is popular in Poland, contains fructose, i.e. sugar naturally occurring in fruit. So that's our assumption. Like I said, this project is in the middle of a consultation right now. They'll shut up until December 15th. We're collecting all the voices that come down to us right now, and of course we're going to take them into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u269	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u270	Minister, the rapporteur said there would be a surplus in the state budget this year, not a deficit. Does this mean that... do you confirm this information that the Senator rapporteur gave you? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Sorry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u271	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u272	I'm sorry, I'm not prepared to answer that question. I know that the indicators for this year's budget implementation are very good and, at least by October, they were a little ahead of our expectations, which were already quite optimistic. So I can't tell you if we're gonna make the budget surplus. For the moment, I'm only able to confirm that we're close to stability. This is my last piece of information. This means that the deviation, which this year is going to be a deficit, should be reduced from probably 1.8% GDP to around 0,3% GDP. [[Thank you...]] [[In that case, can we ask for written information on how the budget is being behaved and how the budget is implemented in the part related to this...]] I'd love to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u273	Good. You're welcome. Please inform me in writing. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. And then you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u274	Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, then you. Now, Senator Blackbay.]] Minister, it's a matter of consultation. Has this bill been consulted with business organisations, entrepreneurs or other organisations? I ask because this percentage of VAT will practically apply to all of us as part of consumption. That's the first question. And the other. Have an impact analysis of this value of VAT been carried out? What would have been if we had left the VAT rate at the level before the raises, which is 22% and 7% ? How is a reduction in income available to families? Were these simulations done? And at the end of the third question. We spoke at the end of the committee meeting, Minister, about the analysis of the VAT gap of Professor Wai. Could the Minister say two words about this, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u275	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u276	Thank you very much. As far as consultations are concerned, I will admit that they were not in the process of creating this project. But please note that this project maintains existing rates; it does not require changes in business IT systems. This is not some major change that would require action on their part. However, the fact is that we did not carry out these consultations. We're based here on an authorisation to so-called. special project procedure. As for analysis, whether there are analyses, and how disposable income is shaped, if we hadn't kept these current rates... I'll admit, unfortunately, we don't have any analyses, but we can try to do them. I don't know if... As far as your last question is concerned, this issue concerned articles, quite critical, which you published in the Rzeczpospolita... [[Professor, wait.]] ...Professor Jan Wait. I've prepared myself for this, I've actually checked these articles, and it seems to me that the thesis that Professor Wait puts is not very accurate. The first argument is that we have created a special entity, i.e. the company of Critical Applications, which has 20 million capital; the chairman of the Supervisory Board is the Deputy Minister of Finance and 3 departments are members. I don't know what it looks like right now, but I suppose there's no major change there. It seems to me that this is a little out of line, because... we're talking about spending at the level of millions, while the VAT gap is billions. I checked what IT expenditures have for different countries and it turned out that Poland unfortunately falls very badly against this background. I don't know if it's gonna be visible, but here's a graph. At the bottom we have IT expenditures in Poland, in 2008 and 2014. And these are expenditures in other OECD countries. There is a correlation between expenditure on IT systems and the VAT gap. That's why we created... We went as part of sealing the VAT system just in the IT tools we introduced STIR, we introduced an electronic JPK, which is reported monthly. This is an important difference because it is widely believed that... JPK was originally created as a file that... It was supposed to be like this: Controllers come in, hook up to a network in a company, download materials and leave. Yes? So he was invented not to torment businessmen with control, just to be able to collect materials and not interfere with business. And what we've done is we've developed this original idea. He remained in this shape, i.e. There is still the possibility that we come and collect this information, while additionally monthly reporting of sales and purchases purchased to the Ministry of Finance, to the services of KAS-owski was introduced. What we're doing now is an electronic collision of data from JPK, which is sales and purchases data, with data from STIR, which is transfer data. Thanks to this, we are able to determine quite quickly where the potential VAT-Own carousel exists, i.e. where the entities that I am speaking in simplification appear. They steal VAT, i.e. they falsely demand reimbursement of the tax. This is a system that will, in the long term, bring about a level playing field. Those who steal VAT have better conditions are better competitive than honest traders who pay VAT. So that in the end it will be beneficial for entrepreneurs. There was a lot of concern about the introduction of this system. We've been debating, and in this Chamber, you've also been debating these ideas. Thank you for supporting these ideas. We can see that they already have good results. Another point raised by your Professor Waiting is this: without the special efforts made by the tax company, it was possible to expect a rise in VAT revenue equal to GDP growth. Well, it's not exactly like that either. And so on. in 2011, when these higher rates were introduced, GDP was quite good, i.e. was an increase in GDP of 5%. It was almost as it was this year. Right? Despite this year's VAT gap was at 19,7% so-called. the theoretical VAT obligation. In the following year, in 2012, this gap jumped to 25.6% the theoretical VAT obligation. It remained at 25.7% in 2013, then, in 2014, it was 24.1% , in 2015 it was 23.9% , and in 2016, when the JPK was introduced, it fell to 20%. In 2018, these estimates that I am now giving you are estimates according to the methodology of the European Commission, made by the Commission. We have used the same methodology of the Commission and we already have data for 2017. We estimate this gap to be 14%. So she is actually still there, but we see here a tendency of very sharp decline. In this respect, I think that the efforts we have made regarding the electronic control of this very large group of taxpayers... I don't remember exactly how many registered VAT ships are right now, but I think about a million, maybe a little less. Anyway, it's a very, very big group. It seems to me that in this situation it is difficult to say that these forecasts presented by your Professor Waiting are correct. Another thesis... Excuse me, I just got a tip that we have 1 million 600 thousand registered VAT payers. This is a big group to control. Right? Another argument is that if the deficit were to be corrected for extraordinary income, e.g. NBP's payments would, of course, have an impact on the formal data we present on the budget deficit. According to the European Union's methodology, income from the profit of the NBP is not taken into account. So the revenue we're giving about the deficit of the public finance sector, e.g. when we say that they are limited from 2,7% GDP, as in 2015, to 1.4% GDP in 2017 is cleared from additional income, these extras, resulting from the distribution of profits by the NBP. So here, too, the thesis is kind of wrong. In addition, Professor Jan Wait writes that if the planned revenues for 2017 were to be made, they would have to increase by PLN 17.5 billion compared to 2016 by almost 14%. It is not possible to achieve this growth rate and would require a sharp increase in efficiency in VAT enforcement. And then, the effect could be achieved by raising the VAT rate by 1 percentage point, i.e. from the current 23 to 24%. Given the success of the government's good change in the improvement of tax collection in 2016, there is doubt as to the reality of these assumptions, as the professor wrote. In 2017, VAT revenues increased by almost 15% , exactly 14.9% for those of 2016. On the other hand, the downloadability estimated again by the Commission's methodology amounted to PLN 6.6 billion, such pure cheatability over assumed. So in 2017, we didn't just raise the rates, we didn't just implement the budget forecasts for revenue growth, we didn't just achieve this 14%. But we even crossed it by almost 1 percentage point, so that's 14.9%. Another thesis: While we are aware of the simplifications of this respect, we can say that the VAT gap during the two years of the PiS government decreased by approximately PLN 6 billion, or by 3 billion on average per year, compared to the previous two years. And here again: if we were just looking at the estimates of the European Commission in 2016, which is PLN 6.6 billion, it would actually be that in two years it would be about 3 billion. But our estimates, made by the same methods as the European Commission's estimates, show that this gap in 2017 fell to 14% a theoretical VAT commitment, which means that we have about PLN 10.8 billion of this in 2017. That is to say, in total, it is up to PLN 16 and 17 billion of additional tax levied in 2016 and 2017. That means we have 8.7 billion something like that. In addition, in 2016... i.e. on average in the year. And we hope it continues. I don't want to bore you with any further thesis, but let me admit that... maybe I can say this: we at the Ministry of Finance may have a slightly better view of the situation, because we have budget data, we know what we're doing, and so, let's say, the forecasts of downloadability or our assumptions can naturally be a little privileged in relation to the assumptions of someone who's outside and doesn't have a full view of the situation. And hence perhaps a number of the wrong ones raised by your professor. But you asked me to check it out, so I checked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u277	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u278	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about this second parameter, which is defined as a certain limit, above... It is different here: below which we sort of come out of these rigors, i.e. from higher rates of tax. I would ask you to explain to us in human terms what this is all about, because it's quite complicated. And is there... Because here's an interesting phrase: not less than -6% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Not less than -6% It's -5%. , -4% etc. by 0.1 per plus, etc. Is that what this was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u279	Yes... I'll tell you what. The thing is... well, I'll try to explain it as simply as I can. This is the sum of the corrected deviations from the medium-term budgetary objective. So let's say that the medium-term budgetary objective is, for example, Achieving a budget deficit of -1% GDP. Over the past few years, when this rule is in force, it has accumulated at a level of about minus... The value in question in 2017 was -6,28%. So the deviations exceeding this -1%. budget deficit as a percentage GDP was building up. If there was, for example, so that in about a year we had -2% budget deficit as PBK is -1% It reached this amount, including -6.28%. Now let's assume that this year we're going to achieve a better result than we anticipated. We were predicting -1.8%. And it's going to be, let's say, 0.3%. That means this indicator is going to get better, because we're going to go below -1%. this medium-term budgetary objective. I hope that's an explanation enough. No? [[But how's it gonna get better, it's gonna be -5%?]] If it gets better, it's gonna be -5%. So if it turns out that we have a balanced budget, we're not going to increase anything. So it's... I mean, no, I'm sorry... [[If there's a minus, that means there's a plus, right?]] If we have a balanced budget, that means that we are within this -1% We're not crossing it, so we're going to smaller it. If we have a balanced budget, this ratio will immediately decrease to -5.28%. If we did. [[So when that percentage goes up, is that better or worse? Just a quick question.]] Because it's a negative number... [[But which way is it growing?]] This is a negative number... [[No, no, growing is clear.]] [[Voice from the room: Negative...]] [[It's like a temperature.]] [[Voice from the room: Up to zero...]] [[If it's minus 6 degrees, it's cooler than...]] Okay. [[All right.]] So in short, if it's -6%. or -7% Unfortunately, we will not meet this criterion of lowering the rates. If it's -5%, we'll meet the criterion of lower rates. [[Less means up, closer to zero.]] [[Voice from the room: He speaks well.]] Yes. [[The closer to zero, the better.]] Yeah, that's right. [[So it's gonna be okay...]] Yes. [[Just like the temperature.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-12-senat-68-1.u280	Okay, thank you. Minister, thank you, there are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, sir. Now I have to announce a recess... [[That's good news, too.]] ...by 10:15 tomorrow. [[Voice from the room: Can't you before?]] You can't before because there will be a convention and there will be extra points. The convention's at 10:00. Time-out till 10:15 tomorrow, of course. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 18 minutes 13]]
