ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Marcin Duszek, Sylwester Tulayev and Rafał Weber as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Rafał Weber. I consider the minutes of the 65th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 29 June this year. died Irena Szewińska - an outstanding Polish athlete, seven times Olympic medalist, activist of national and international sports organizations, queen of the Order of the White Eagle. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Adam Abramowicz on the basis of the article. I have decided to join Mr Tomasz Zieliński in his seat, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to come closer to the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Tomasz Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u2	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mr Tomasz Zieliński has taken a vow of marriage. I would like to inform you that the items on the agenda concerning the first readings of government draft laws: - amending the Tax Order and certain other laws, print No 2626, - State aid for housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, print No 2651, - special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodship, print No. 2650, were considered at the 65th session of the Sejm. These points have therefore become pointless. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the points covering the examination of the committee's reports in prints 2530, 2531, 2532, 2533 and 2538 on the establishment of the patrons of 2019. I would like to inform you that the point covering the examination of the application for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Krzysztof Jurgiel has become pointless. The group of Members submitted a proposal for the cancellation of Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Polish Sejm, print no. 2689. [[Applause]] Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this request. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into land ownership rights, - on the amendment of the Agricultural Tax Act, the Local Tax Act and the Forest Tax Act. The projects are prints 2673 and 2668 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and certain other laws, - about the national cybersecurity system. The reports shall be printed in no. 2612 and 2659 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, print No 2666. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted reports on urgent government draft laws: - amending the Waste Act and certain other laws, - amending the Environmental Inspection Act and certain other laws. These are printers 2676 and 2677 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted additional reports on draft laws: - Law on higher education and science, - Provisions introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. These are, respectively, prints No 2563-A and No 2564-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. The Committee on Public Finance has submitted reports: - the report on the implementation of the State budget submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, together with the analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2017 and the Commission's draft discharge resolution, - of the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2017 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, - on the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. The Commission's reports are in prints 2656, 2634 and 2657 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 2660. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print 2660, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 365 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 170, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 2688. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. [[Voice from the Chamber: What about formal applications?]] This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No. 2688, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 368 Members voted. 196 voted against - 171, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] The formal proposals will be here any minute. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But they were submitted before the votes.]] At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to supplement the agenda for the Commission's report on the draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We proceed with the vote on the report on the draft law on State aid for housing expenditure. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy on this project, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 368 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 170, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. Formal requests have been made by the Members. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that today, during this session of the Sejm, as it has been a good parliamentary custom so far, the Marshal has ordered a recess in the votes from hours. 20 a.m. 22. Ladies and gentlemen! Today under the Supreme Court [[Applause]] they want to be all those who refuse to dismantle independent state institutions. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Today, under the Supreme Court, there will be all those who will not let themselves be mammies, who will wash their eyes with your pseudoreforms. [[Applause]] Today the future of free Poland, free elections and free courts is decided. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, we, Members of the opposition, the Civic Platform Club, but I believe that the entire opposition, alongside the Modern and the PSL... [[A voice from the hall: 'Help! Heal!]] ...we will also be under the Supreme Court. We ask that the marshal allow us all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] being where the fate of Poland is really going to be. [[Voice from the room: We work here!]] If the marshal wanted to take this custom into account...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u6	...who was in the last term. When a country in Kraków Suburbs... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u7	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u8	... 10 every month, you also had your celebration...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u10	... We made it possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u11	The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club... There's a vote against that voice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Me with a vote against. Our country's fates are settled in this House, not in street fights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u13	Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request a break and a convent of the Seniors Convention so that I can decide to introduce current information for the next session of the Sejm - which you refused to consider, breaking the 29-year tradition of this Sejm - concerning the link between the rule of law and European funds and the consequences of this link. [[Applause]] You have to explain yourselves to the Poles from this... [[Voice from the room: You translate.]] ...that the consequences of what you do will be borne by Poles, carried by local governments, borne by farmers. There's been a lot going on in the last few weeks about this. There was a hearing in the General Affairs Council and no information was provided. We're waiting for the Sejm to get to know this information. Contrary to what you are saying about the fact that these relations are getting better, we are now getting information that the European Commission is making further proposals regarding the violation of European Union law by the Government of Law and Justice. We hope that we will be able to read this information from the government. If not, we will be forced to submit requests for a vote of distrust to the Minister responsible for what is happening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u15	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot consider Mr Trzaskowski's proposal to be a formal proposal. [[But you promised a marshal.]] I remind you of your lips. Article 2 184, which states that formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the current sitting, and that what we will be working on at the next session of the Sejm will be decided at the next session of the Sejm, at its beginning. [[But the marshal promised.]] So that I am very sorry, but I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry personally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the session of the Sejm be adjourned in connection with the item which includes the report on the activities of the Supreme Court for 2017. The question arises: Who will present this report in connection with the cleanliness that PiS is currently carrying out in the Supreme Court? This report should be presented in accordance with the Constitution by Professor Margaret Gersdorf, first President of the Supreme Court by 2020. [[Applause]] We're dealing with an emergency situation. The European Commission has just launched a procedure to investigate the incompatibility with EU law of the Law on Cleansing in the Supreme Court. No one in Europe fell for the PiS lies. Today, all tools for repairing relations with the European Union are in the hands of PiS politicians. The PiS politicians could, in one day, at least tomorrow, pass a bill that will hold the purge in the Supreme Court. As an example of the IPN Act has shown, it is possible. In the following steps, it is necessary to restore the independence of the National Judicial Council and remove the understudy from the Constitutional Tribunal and to swear in properly elected judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As citizens, we do not agree to the destruction of the rule of law in Poland, so today and tomorrow we will be under the Supreme Court. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u17	Thank you, Member. But can this be seen as a formal conclusion? [[Voice from the court: Mr. Marshal, I object.]] But wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen... Madam President, I have doubts as to whether this proposal can be regarded as a formal proposal for this simple reason that today... [[You can afford it.]] ... 3 July at 3 p.m. 10.35 We have such a situation that the first president of the Supreme Court is Mrs Margaret Gersdorf. She was invited today at hours. 17.30 to provide information on the activity of the court in the previous year. [[Tomorrow.]] Today. We're talking about today. That is why I believe that this proposal is pointless. [[It's not on the agenda today.]] [[Voice from the room: In the schedule there is.]] Member Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of our club, I wanted to justify a formal request for a break in the evening and a transfer of votes to tomorrow, i.e. July 4th, at 3 p.m. 9. I would also like to refer to the words that Mr Terlecki just said, that the country's main issues are being resolved in this House. No, sir. By the activities of your club, including you personally, this House has been turned into a silent Sejm, into a body that is free to implement the policies of one party. Today, matters of Poland are settled under the Supreme Court and in Brussels. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] European Commission requested [[♪ The bell ♪]] explanations of actions of the Polish Government against the rule of law in Poland. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Moscow!]] Polish parliamentarians should be here today at 3 p.m. 21 under the Supreme Court to defend the independence of the Supreme Court together with their constituents, defend Poland's position in the European Union. We demand an hour's break. 19, which will enable us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the opposition, protesting with our voters in defence of the independence of the court. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u19	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, I will put to the vote a formal request for a break between hours. 20 a.m. 22, because that's the formal conclusion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who among you is in favour of announcing a gap between hours? 20 a.m. 22 today, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 369 Members voted. 162 voted against - 206, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. There is another proposal, Mr Protasiewicz, which will also have to be voted on. [[Two more.]] It's about announcing a break, as I understand it, from hours. 20 to tomorrow at 10 p.m. 9 a.m., including the transfer of votes. [[Voice from the room: Godz. 7:30.]] Who is behind this request, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 368 Members voted. 161 voted against - 206, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold a joint brief debate on points on: - the report on the implementation of the State budget, together with the draft resolution on discharge, - Information on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2017 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, - reports on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2017. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion on: - the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2017, - information on the activities of the National Media Council. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the groups in discussions on information: - the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the status of the child's rights, - the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017, together with the position of the committee. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion on draft laws: - amending the Waste Act and certain other laws, - amending the Environmental Inspection Act and certain other laws. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on: - a report by the committee on the draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe, - the reports of the committee on draft resolutions on the establishment of the patrons of 2019. Except we're going to discuss these patronages at the next meeting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the preparation of an urgent government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment and the manner in which the presentation was made by Kukiz Club Poselski15. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u20	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12.30, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Legal notice - hour. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 16, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 4:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17, - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the National Defence Commission - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u21	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on special solutions for the municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship (prints No. 2650 and 2666). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, print No. 2650. Sejm at its 65th meeting on 27 June 2018, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Local Government and Regional Policy after considering this draft law at its meeting on 27 June 2018 request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u23	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u24	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the governmental draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, prints No. 2650 and 2666. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a precedent in Poland. The Act abolishes the municipality of Ostrowice. This is the result of the extreme pathology of local government, which led to such a catastrophic situation of the municipality, that the only solution that does not condemn the inhabitants to life without the future is the liquidation of this municipality. This situation has two aspects: self-government, local, and government, central. For many years in this municipality is ruled by Wójt Wacław Micewski, who led to such scandalous debt of the municipality that the debt currently exceeds 4.5 times the annual income of this municipality. But the second aspect is also important here, the government, because already in 2010 the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration received an official letter from the Regional Audit Chamber in Szczecin informing about the extremely difficult budgetary situation of the municipality, which was eligible for the appointment of a Commissioner. Unfortunately, neither last year nor in the following years the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did anything to prevent this situation in any way. It is worth noting that since 2010 this debt has increased, it can be said, in geometric progress and in the municipality - not as the only case but as a characteristic case - it has been indebted not in banks, but in parabanks. This has led to such a state that the only solution that will allow residents to look forward with optimism, and the areas of this municipality to develop and plan the future, is only liquidation. This is a precedent, but it is also worth asking for reflection for the inhabitants of Poland. We're in the pre-election period before the elections to local government. It is worth looking at our municipalities, our districts, and thinking about how those who represent us in these authorities are working, whether or not they deserve another term of office. Law and Justice fully supports the government project. I think this is the optimal solution for residents of Ostrowice. We believe that the municipalities that take over Ostrowice will also have a chance to develop. Your marshal, on behalf of the club, I'm making amends. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u25	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. Ostrowice Municipality, as we all know, is one of the most indebted municipalities in Poland. The Regional Audit Chamber in Szczecin has given the opinion that the municipality has no financial perspectives to carry out investments for many years, which shows that there is no possibility of economic development. I do not want to go back historically to how it happened, because Mr Jach clearly pointed out the guilty. The guilt was very multifactorial and distributed. In 2015, voivode Marek Tałasiewicz applied for the abolition of the commune. It was only after 2 years that what we are discussing today happened, i.e. a law on special solutions has been drawn up. Of course, the aim of the project was primarily to create regulations aimed at the liquidation of Ostrowice Municipality, the abolition of Ostrowice Municipality without primarily transferring to the municipality the burdens associated with the operation and repayment of the municipal liabilities, as well as the determination of the volume of the commune's liabilities and the procedure for the settlement of claims. The liabilities of the municipality of Ostrowice arising before its abolition will be borne by the State Treasury, while the debts of the municipality of Ostrowice will become liabilities of the municipality to which the area will be included. And this is actually good information for local authorities who want to take over the commune of Ostrowice, i.e. the communes of Złocieniec and Drawsko Pomorskie. But there is also bad information, because in our opinion and in the opinion of local authorities, ensuring the normal functioning of the abolished commune in the new reality will generate further great costs, which they cannot even think about and dream about at the moment, according to this law, local authorities. Namely, the entry in perpetual books concerning change of owners is the cost of tens of thousands on the part of new local governments. The employment of new workers and the increase in the scope of tasks of existing workers resulting from the merger of parts of Ostrowice Municipality will lead to an extension of the scope of activities carried out by the employees. Costs include: checks, additional annual salaries for employees, maintenance of the building in which the Ostrowice Municipal Office is currently located, equipment and adaptation of office premises, specialised legal and financial services related to the acquisition process, adaptation of the IT base, notification of changes in borders, new tax authorities, administrative authorities, bank accounts, documents related to changes in local law, including planning documents, and finally launching a coherent public collective transport in the enlarged municipality. In our view, therefore, and in the opinion of the local authorities, it is necessary to propose an amendment which would somehow compensate for these expenses. The amendment concerns Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on the Income of Local Government Entities and the inclusion in the proposed Act of the provision that for municipalities resulting from the merger of two or more municipalities by means of concerted resolutions, the ratio of participation in income tax revenues from individuals as defined in Article. 4, for a period of 5 years, from 1 January of the year following the year in which the merger decision was taken, would be increased by 5 percentage points. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the scale of PLN 3 million per year. The amount of PLN 3 million will certainly not destroy the state budget, and local authorities who want to take over this divided municipality will be able to improve the infrastructure of this neglected municipality of Ostrowice in a responsible manner. It is also the answer to the residents that it will not only be from the budget of their municipalities, from their taxes, but also expenditure will be on the side of the Treasury. That is why we will make this amendment. Finally, as regards the duration of this liquidation process, that during the year when two government commissioners changed, this debt increased by another PLN 10 million. If this bill had been prepared faster and more efficiently, we would have been, I think, in a different situation. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the bill, but amends the 5% equivalent for municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u27	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I had the honour of expressing my opinion on the commune, which is going back to history, and, unfortunately, making a very negative contribution to it, the Ostrowice commune. Ladies and gentlemen, as to the validity of the work on this bill, Kukiz15 has no doubt. We will get involved here and we will do everything we can to resolve this issue, but the essence of today's discussion should be above all conclusions, wise conclusions for the future, because this story is a lesson that is a lesson for the future - I hope that this is the only lesson - very painful for Polish self-government. Firstly, the municipality 2,5 thousand - this is a fact showing it - it is unfortunately too small a municipality, too small a municipality, and thus poor to function on its own. I mean, Minister, you may need to develop a system of bonuses, incentives for local governments to integrate and merge, because, as we can see, 2, 5,000. residents, and still in voivodship with high unemployment, it is not enough to function, develop. And that snowball didn't come up in one year, the debt ball. It's getting bigger. We all know that there is no commune in Poland today, a city without debt. Debt itself is not a problem, the problem is the lack of income and at the same time additional responsibilities without sources of funding, especially from the state budget. It's kind of another conclusion, too. So let's create a bonus system that encourages local governments to integrate and build rational communities territorially. Secondly, the income law of the JST must be designed in such a way as to end the bad practice of commissioning with little or insufficient resources. The next issue is debt. All local authorities are at the stage of EU investment today and, as we know, this will create a mechanism for increasing debt. But you have to be aware that without it there will be no investment, without it there will be no activity, no new actions. Here I would believe in the rationality of local governments after years of experience, that it would be more thoughtful investments and more reasonable money spent. At the same time, however, we must also be aware that the next 3, 4 years will be the time of debt growth, but also the gradual repayment of debt. We must be patient here, but at the same time be aware of it, so that we, as Sejm and local governments, somewhere here, cooperate in the fight against debt, over-indebtedness, but in order for it to be cooperation, not hindering our lives, it must be cooperation. I would like to see a partnership here on seymous, parliamentary and self-government grounds. This partnership would be a good signal to the fact that even from debt that would go towards investment, it is possible to exit, credit comes and pays out and can function, only one condition, it must be carried out in a good atmosphere, without political malice and disturbing itself, and at the same time with some understanding. Without that, ladies and gentlemen, no government can, not even the richest one will have problems. I hope we can draw the right and wise conclusions. for the future and Ostrowice will be the first and only municipality whose liquidation we will have to deal with in the Sejm forum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u29	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Territorial government is an integral part of our lives. Built and nurtured for years, it has become a symbol of the decentralisation of the Polish state, which is due to the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which in art. 15 points out that the fundamental territorial division of the State is to take into account social, economic or cultural ties and to ensure that local authorities have the capacity to perform public tasks, and that the local government itself, when participating in the exercise of public authority, has an important part of public tasks on its own behalf and on its own account, which must be borne in mind when we undertake any interference in the activity of the local government and its essence. The catastrophic economic situation of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship justifies such far-reaching interference, which is the abolition of the municipality by means of a regulation issued by the Council of Ministers, due to the lack of prospects for repayment of debts already reaching almost PLN 47 million, which represents 437% its revenue in 2017. The unprecedented situation that we face requires us to take innovative measures that would enable this area to get back on its feet in economic and development terms, therefore creating a legal basis for the abolition of the municipality, its inclusion in the territory of neighbouring municipalities without carrying the burden in the form of commitments that Ostrowice has, is an action which will complement the establishment of a procedure to satisfy recognised claims. It seems that the solution proposed is a reasonable solution, which will help us to master the economic disaster taking place in Ostrowice, without undue inconvenience for the municipalities taking over its territory. However, people and their ingenuity cannot be forgotten. I therefore ask the government to take into account the proposal for an amendment of the Civic Platform, which has just been submitted to the hands of your marshal. Local authorities from Ostrowice, Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec also requested this. It is a proposal to increase to 5% shares in PIT. I hope that this amendment will be accepted, because this 3 million PLN is not some big amount for the state, and this can actually help these municipalities to develop better and take over commitments that will nevertheless be made, because the municipality of Ostrowice enters these municipalities without its obligations, but the costs will be in other departments. Let us not forget that, as Members, representatives of the Polish people, we have a duty to listen to our voters and to benefit from their experience and extensive knowledge in order to fulfil even better the tasks entrusted to us. We must not be indifferent to their voice. The Modern Posel Club accepts the bill submitted and will vote in favour of the bill, but we ask you to accept the 5% amendment. because it doesn't cost much, and a lot will help the municipalities that take over Ostrowice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u31	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u32	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The uniqueness of the situation and the urgent need to adopt statutory rules concerning the procedure for the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice led on 27 June 2018 the Joint Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy leaned on the Government's submission on the subject. As I have written from this stand, the situation is extraordinary, and the Sejm has faced a fact that has just been done, where it has not been possible to maintain the existing situation. This uniqueness has led to the fact that, after careful examination of the whole situation, taking into account the effects and consequences of the situation and following the overriding interest, so with regard to the situation of the local population, local government, as well as with regard to the reasons of the state, my club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supported, although not unconditionally, the bill submitted. When we put forward three general proposals to minimise the impact, although not the consequences, of this dramatic situation, we took the view that the first is man, and that next, local circumstances should be taken into account, both in relation to the needs of the local population, the innocent situation, as well as in relation to the possibilities of the State Treasury. This was the purpose of the solutions proposed by me as a representative of my club. Following a joint meeting of the Joint Committees, an in-depth and thorough analysis of the situation, which was very serious and complicated, taking into account both the legal aspects and the expectations of the local population, as well as the state's capacity, a kind of consensus was reached on the final shape of the provisions of the future legislative act. The Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats was particularly at heart when it mentioned the requirement for public consultation, which was also reflected in the report of the Joint Committees. It is important that the legal act in this House today will contain a number of specific obligations imposed on the voivode, in the area of action in which the abolished commune and the acquiring municipalities have their seat. Employee rights of the Ostrowice Municipal Authority have been guaranteed. Specific duties were also imposed on the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, which represents the State Treasury and its interests. High Seym! As I mentioned in my first reading, it was not for us in this Chamber to judge the situation, and even more so to charge specific subjects. Instead, we should create, in particular in this extraordinary and exceptional situation, such regulations as to minimise the effects of the situation already in place and, if possible, the local population has the least impact, which I believe has been reasonably and rationally achieved. Taking all this into account, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats will vote in favour of the printing report No 2666. We will certainly also support the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform Club. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u33	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the meeting of the local government committee, the mayors of the two municipalities: Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec, who take over Ostrowice, clearly stated that this would involve additional expenditure from their budgets of the municipalities, which would not be covered by revenues from the divided area of the municipality Ostrowice. You said this kind of money didn't belong to them. I would like to hear the argument in this House, because in principle we should be grateful to the communities of Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec, including 30,000. people, and their self-governments, who just solve the problem. If someone does kindness, it's important to appreciate it, it's the rules. For what reasons do you want to behave pettyly by refusing this 5% bonus in personal income tax, which is mentioned by the Act on the income of local government units? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u35	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u36	It must be made clear that the municipality of Ostrowice - I know this municipality very well - has never had an economic basis for functioning, to provide the inhabitants with the necessary infrastructure. And it is good that the municipalities of Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec were enlarged. But my question is directly addressed to Minister Chefnernaker, a Member from that district: Why do you want to do this at the expense of the residents of the Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec municipalities? If there is a mechanism in the Act that clearly speaks of a 5% bonus in the case of merger of municipalities, then when the municipality is forced, not entirely according to its will, to bear these costs... Why are you trying to exclude this mechanism in this case? What is happening cannot be done at the expense of the standard of living of the inhabitants and the state of the budgets of the municipalities of Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec, at the expense of the inhabitants of these municipalities. I am surprised, Minister, that you have the courage to speak as a Member from this region, elected by the inhabitants of these municipalities, against this [[♪ The bell ♪]] the solution. You have an obligation to these people... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...not to the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u37	I ask you to ask Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform. [[And you shouldn't turn off the microphone.]] Don't lecture me, sir. [[And I'm gonna lecture you because culture always...]] You have children, then take care of them, not me. [[You're the last culture to teach.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u38	Your marshal, thank you. I would like you to call the marshal to order, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u39	(PL) Mr President, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the liquidation of the municipality due to its bad financial situation is an unprecedented situation, while Polish law provides for a bonus for the consolidation of the municipalities resulting from the Act on the income of local government units. In a situation where you are actually trying to solve the problem that has arisen, it seems completely illogical not to take advantage of these solutions, because you are responsible not only for this one particular municipality - after all, similar conclusions may arise in the future and then it will be much harder to solve the problem which, somewhere in some area, is functioning because the cost of the liquidation of one municipality is actually borne by the other two. Minister! However, I would ask for some reflection in order to try, without precedent, to develop a system solution that could be applied in the future if similar problems were to arise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] appeared also in the case of other municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u41	I ask you to ask Mr Michał Jacha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Colleagues from the Civic Platform have been speaking here for several minutes with great concern about the inhabitants of the commune. Minister, is it true that at that time since 2010, when the real problems of Ostrowice commune began, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the voivodeship was managed by the PO-PSL board, the voivode was from the Platform, the starosta was from the Platform, and the commune's wót was running from the PO list? Is it true, Minister, that if they had responded in 2010 in due course, this would not be a problem at the moment, there would be no law, and the government would not have been burdened and would not have had to take over almost 50 million dollars of debt? Minister, is it true that these omissions concern not only this community, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But many others... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...communes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u43	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy that all clubs really support these solutions, which, I will remind you, did not come out of consensus, let's just say it wasn't before, but came from the fact that just law and justice, the government of law and justice has decided to solve this problem, which has been growing over the years. There were meetings in the municipality of Ostrowice, there were meetings also in Drawsk, there were meetings in Szczecin. I am very pleased that, as part of the consensus with the local community - because local authorities also took part in the consultation in the drafting of this law - today we are at this stage that there is a debate in Parliament. And for those positive voices, for seeing that there is a government, there is a government that takes... does not turn a blind eye to the situation of the indebted community, but solves this problem, I wanted to thank you. With regard to issues related to the 5% bonus, of course this bonus, ladies and gentlemen, is possible in the context of the merger of municipalities, and here we are dealing with the liquidation of the municipality. There will be revenues from new, enlarged municipalities - they will increase due to taxes. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking at the whole issue systemically, it can be noted that such a mechanism could encourage other municipalities to indebt themselves, because there would be further preferential conditions for them to later liquidate and combine municipalities, so that I would ask you to look at this issue in a systematic manner as well. [[It's illogical.]] The Government of Law and Justice supports this area. I would like to remind you that a month ago, the competition was terminated as part of a government aid scheme for the construction of local roads. 7 million zlotys went... From 28 million PLN to Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship 7 million PLN went to Drawski district, so there is knowledge, there is support. So that the Government of Law and Justice supports this area, we will also support it in further possible programmes and, ladies and gentlemen, above all, the government extends and takes over commitments that have grown over the years. It is a big deal that there is no situation that the municipalities of Drawsko and most likely Złocieniec will take over the land in debt. As so far, this is what you have said about the 2015 voivode's proposal. etc., these proposals, including under the rule of the Civic Platform, were under the applicable law, under this law Drawsko would receive a 50 million-dollar debt. I'd like it to be clear from this room. We lead to this situation - but we want it to be an accident - that the voivode takes over the commitments and practically new enlarged municipalities receive the extended area. That is also the answer to Mr Nitras' question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is never the case. There was no situation for the government to extend the municipality. And, ladies and gentlemen, there will certainly be a need for system solutions and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... As many municipalities are in debt, it is a common situation today that such debts arise in parabanks, the government will strive to do so, the Ministry will work to develop systemic solutions in a short time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u45	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the government draft law amending the Law on the system of monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration (prints Nos 2377 and 2537). I ask Mr Wiesław Krajewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meeting on 25 April took note of this draft law. During the work of the committee, five amendments were tabled by the Legislative Office of an editorial and legislative nature. The amendments tabled were accepted by the committee. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the essential effect of the entry into force of the proposed amendment of the Law of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring and control system for the quality of fuels will be the monitoring and control of the quality of solid fuels in accordance with the state of technical knowledge and experience in their application, with particular reference to the reduction of emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases and other substances. The proposed changes will also bring the solid fuel market into order and enable consumers to buy solid fuels that meet the quality requirements for fuels intended for the municipal and residential sectors. Undoubtedly, the most important objective of this law is to improve air quality by eliminating the worst quality solid fuels from the sale. The Supreme Chamber of Control has been working on air quality in Poland for many years, publishing reports on this subject. The first report was issued in 2000. It is a report informing about the need to regulate two fundamental issues in the legal system, in order to improve air quality in Poland significantly. These issues concern the introduction of quality standards for solid fuels and the introduction of emission standards for solid fuel boilers. The bill discussed today meets these expectations. The most important changes contained in the bill can be considered among others. the definition of combustion plants in which solid fuels covered by the Act are used. The Act concerns solid fuels burning in households and combustion plants with a rated thermal input of less than 1 MW. The Act amends and extends the catalogue of solid fuels. According to the Act, solid fuel is among others. coal, briquettes or pellets containing a minimum specified percentage of hard coal. The Act introduces an obligation to use a quality certificate which is passed on to each sale of solid fuel. This is information for the buyer about what he buys and what's in the solid fuel product. The Act prohibits the sale and import to the municipal and domestic sector of fuels which do not comply with the requirements of the quality regulation. The Act gives the authority to issue relevant regulations on the quality of solid fuels, methods of testing the quality of solid fuels, the method of sampling solid fuels, the model introduced and the quality certificate which organises and certify the type of coal in the Polish market. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 25 April this year, the Energy and Treasury Commission unanimously adopted the draft law, together with the amendments made. I propose that the draft law and the solutions proposed therein be adopted together with the amendments adopted by the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u47	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Małgorzata Janowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u48	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration in print Nos 2377 and 2537. The main objective of this revision is to improve air quality by eliminating the lowest quality solid fuels from the market. As part of the work at government level and during the committee's deliberations, optimal solutions were adopted. They will, on the one hand, allow a decisive improvement in the quality of fuels used by citizens and, on the other hand, will not impose disproportionate obligations and restrictions on them. The adoption of amendments to the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control Act is undoubtedly a major step forward in the fight against smog. We must remember that on 22 February this year. The Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in which it concluded that the Republic of Poland exceeded the limit value for PM10 dust concentration in the years 2007 to 2015. Poland was also accused of abandoning appropriate measures to improve air quality. The Court has obliged the authorities of the Republic of Poland to take appropriate action in this respect. This amendment is part of Poland's implementation of the Court's recommendations. By the way, it is also worth mentioning that the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2000 and 2014 has repeatedly drawn attention to a serious problem with air quality in Poland and pointed out solutions that should be implemented. Once again, it is due to the actions of the United Right Government that we are finally working on a project that solves this problem at national level. The solutions proposed in the Act are primarily provisions authorising the Minister responsible for energy to issue relevant regulations governing a number of key issues in terms of fuel quality. In this way they will be defined, among others. requirements for the quality of solid fuels and methods for testing their quality. The projects mentioned above the regulations were prepared during the Ministry and Government work on the amendment and attached to the project itself. As a result, all interested persons had the opportunity to get to know them in good time. Further changes included in the Act include, among others, the definition of combustion plants in which solid fuels covered by the Act are used. The Act concerns solid fuels burning in households and combustion plants with a rated thermal input of less than 1 MW. Further issues include the change and extension of the solid fuel catalogue. According to the Act, solid fuel is among others. hard coal, briquettes or pellets containing at least a certain percentage of hard coal. The Act also introduces an obligation to use a quality certificate which is passed on to each sale of solid fuels. The regulation also contains provisions prohibiting the sale and import of fuels which do not comply with the requirements of the quality regulation to the municipal and residential sector. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my great joy that we are already at the end of the parliamentary phase of work on such an important and expected law. I would also like to thank all those involved in this project: representatives of the government, members of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and representatives of all the organisations and companies involved in the project. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendment proposed by the Energy and Treasury Commission in print Nos 2377 and 2537. The parliamentary club also makes amendments to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u49	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present the club's position regarding the report of the Energy and Treasury Commission on the government bill amending the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration, prints no. 2377 and 2537. The bill entered the Sejm on 19 March 2018 and was addressed to work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, where the first reading took place on 25 April. High Izbo! It should be stressed here that during the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury at which this reading took place - despite the prior notification to the secretariat of the committee - Marshal of the Sejm did not agree to the admission of invited guests, including among others. representatives of the coal mining hubs, business representatives and experts, except those who have notified the Ministry of Energy. Such a forced form of silent parliamentary debate by the Marshal of the Sejm is clearly distorting the legislative process, preventing the social side and all interested parties from discussing the law-making process. The main effect of the proposed amendment of this law, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, will be the monitoring and control of the quality of solid fuels, in accordance with the state of technical knowledge and experience in their application, with particular reference to the reduction of emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases and other substances. Another effect of the proposed solution will be to organise the solid fuel market and enable consumers to buy solid fuels that meet the quality requirements for fuels intended for the municipal and residential sectors. Interestingly, the legislator withdrew in the explanatory memorandum of the bill from the other effect it would have had after the entry into force of the Act and which it presented at the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team meeting on 21 February 2017, i.e. the effect of reducing imports of coal from third countries outside the European Union. It is necessary, High Izbo, to make it clear that this law on the carriage of coal from European Union countries does not impose any restrictions, because imported coal is enough to be transported through the territory of another EU country so that there are no obligations and restrictions related to the placing on the market procedure. The most important changes contained in the Act are, first of all, the definition of combustion plants in which solid fuels covered by the Act are used - the Act concerns solid fuels burning in households and combustion installations with a nominal heat output of less than 1 MW; the amendment and extension of the catalogue of solid fuels; the introduction of an obligation to use a certificate of quality and to prohibit imports, sales to the municipal and domestic sectors of fuels which do not comply with the requirements of the Quality Regulation - coal mules, flotoconcentrates, brown coal, fuel from any blending of solid fuels containing less than 85% hard coal; introduction of penalties and fines for traders who will sell solid fuel contrary to the law and the quality requirements of the regulation. The Act also provides the Minister for Energy with tools which allow him to introduce, by regulation, for a period of not more than 60 days, the possibility of temporarily withdrawing from the quality standards for solid fuels. There is here, High Izbo, a threat to which, as Members of the opposition, we pointed out at first reading, that the failure to implement production plans in domestic coal producers, which we have faced over the past 2 years in the Polish Mining Group and other coal companies, may be an excuse for the Minister of Energy to allow the introduction of coal which does not comply with this law to the market. High Izbo! The Act is part of the actions already undertaken by the local government in the six voivodship seymics, which implemented the so-called. Anti-smog resolutions aimed at eliminating from the household heating market poor quality fuels and thus reducing low emissions and improving the health of our citizens. However, it should be pointed out here that the concern of the PiS government about the future of Polish mining is unfortunately fake. This is confirmed by the government's decision to close further mines and mining plants over the last 2.5 years, a permanent liquidation of about 10 thousand. jobs in mining, and hence in the mining industry. Imports of coal to Poland in 2017 increased by as much as 65% compared to the previous year and amounted to over 13 million tons of coal, of which almost 9 million tons from Russia. High Izbo! To sum up my speech, I would like to inform the High House that the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the adoption of this law in order to improve air quality in Poland, in the interests of the health and life of citizens who have the right to breathe clean air. However, we expect the PiS government to make real proposals to reduce the financial burden on almost 5.5 million households, which will have to pay more for heating their homes, which Mr Tobiszowski announced at the meeting of the Energy and Treasury Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration, print no. 2377 and 2537. Of course, everyone's concern is clean air, good fuel quality, and that citizens have the ability to buy so that they can heat their homes with this cheap, clean fuel. This is a step towards self-government, which brings sharpening to the distribution and combustion of flotocenters and mules in individual kilns. The only thing that would have to be pointed out - as a Kukiz club15 we have already pointed out many times - is the cost that citizens will bear due to the fact that the spoiled quality of solid fuel requires a higher price. Is there any way to relieve the fiscal burden on hard coal? The taxes in various forms are about 35, so could the government consider here, however, that fiscal burdens, which are covered with hard coal... Would it not be possible to verify this so that the final price for solid fuel for the citizen would not be higher and much more burdensome for the household budget? Of course, it goes as expected by society in such a way that the fuel is of the best quality, so that the air we breathe is as clean as possible. As a Kukiz club15, we support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government proposal for a law amending the law on the system of monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the proposed law and implementing acts is, as has been said several times here, to improve air quality and to eliminate from the sale of solid fuels of worse, worst quality, and it should be said here openly and explicitly that this does not apply to the whole spectrum of combustion and to the communal-byte sector. Indeed, this affects what air we breathe every day, but it is not all fuel burning in all the installations that exist in Poland. In fact, the purpose of the law in particular is precisely to define these installations, specific combustion plants in which fuels covered by the law are used. According to the project presented to the High House, these fuels will be examined precisely for households and combustion plants with a rated thermal input of less than 1 MW. In addition, the Act amends and extends the catalogue of solid fuels. According to the Act it will be among others. hard coal, briquettes or pellets containing a certain percentage of hard coal. Products withdrawn from the market shall also be indicated. In addition, the Act introduces an obligation to use a quality certificate, which is passed on when selling coal, which will be important for customers who, when purchasing, will be able to check what are the quality parameters of the coal they buy and the fuels they buy. Moreover, what is important, the law prohibits sales, imports into the municipal and domestic sector of fuels which do not comply with the requirements of the quality regulation. Well, that's an important record, because if we look at it, for example. on burning coals such as mules and flotation concentrates, as we see in the justification, they cause a high emission of total suspended dust, including subfractions PM10 and PM2,5, which is of course the most important for the health of Poles. Also brown coal causes about five times higher emissions of dust during combustion, as well as many times higher emissions of these substances, which are the most harmful. From this point of view, such records are most desirable. In addition, non-compliant solid fuels, and that is certain, I would say, a step still to be taken in the future, will be able to be burned in installations that have a capacity of not less than 1 MW. The Act, which is important, also introduces penalties for the fact that they will be carried out or that traders will sell those fuels which do not meet the quality requirements. This is important. These penalties are very high and if we usually question them, e.g. in the case of transport companies, the level of penalties, in this case, when clean air, air quality has such a significant impact on the health of Poles, these penalties must be very repelled and I have the impression that those included in this act are. Minister! I feel like you in Law and Justice are afraid of clean air like the devil of holy water. How do you explain to others that this bill has been on the committee since April 25th, over two months? We already know the legendary pace of project processing and it seems that you have avoided this topic. It is a good thing that he finally appeared in the High House's forum, because, ladies and gentlemen, about 50,000. people die every year from diseases caused by bad air quality. That should have been done by now. It's a good thing this trial started. Minister, we have only such a doubt that this law does not go as far as the public would expect, because this should apply to all fuels that are sold in Poland and not only to parts. We also make one amendment in the process of agreeing on these fuel conditions [[♪ The bell ♪]] the participation of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for the Economy, or, if this amendment fails, at least the Minister for the Environment. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...is the Minister of Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are considering, today we are debating a government bill on a very important issue, as has already been highlighted by my previous speakers, it is a question of securing the right conditions of functioning, of living in our country. It's a matter of maintaining health safety standards. It is a matter of preparation and tooling in the legal acts of economic areas, living areas, areas of life and development so as not to destroy the environment. These are very important issues, lofty issues that are not practically discussed. We will support and support this work so that the legislative process is completed as soon as possible. In the final we will vote in favour of this project. Nevertheless, I would like to ask, I would urge that the Minister and the Ministry should not stop on this act, on this bill, that we go further, so that we can deal with all those actors who, as a result of their activities, introduce a lot of very harmful pollutants in the form of gases, dust and other materials... The idea is to consider and limit this possibility comprehensively. It is good that at the moment we focus on a specific area in the social and domestic field, that we define a catalogue of solid fuels, that we meet and prevent these entries from being imported into Poland of fuels that contain pollutants or which may cause unnecessary factors and components to be introduced into the atmosphere that arise as a result of the combustion process. I think that if the mechanism for controlling and enforcing these records later is equally efficient, it should have a specific effect. I think that here the very issue of putting these deterrents in the records, I mean penalties, even though at first glance they are high... They must, I think, be. I am in favour of it to work unambiguously and to be a factor that will limit the ability of those entities that introduce or import these fuels into our country, I mean coal and various other materials which presented as fuels may affect and affect the state of the air in our country. Furthermore, Minister, a request: perhaps we should also turn towards renewable energy sources, because if we burn solid fuels, even if we improve this regime and avoid the introduction of adverse ingredients into the atmosphere, they will be some. Maybe we should look at this with a more favorable eye and try to create and adopt records in the near future that will enable energy to be obtained from other sources so as not to pollute the atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u57	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Ireneusz Profit, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the governmental bill amending the Act on the system of monitoring and control of fuel quality and the Act on National Tax Administration. Minister! It's a very good bill. It's about time it came into force. [[Applause]] [[A very good project, sir, very good.]] This project aims to clean up the market for solid fuels, to enable consumers to buy solid fuels that meet the quality requirements for fuels intended for the municipal and domestic sectors. I must point out that this legislative proposal coincides in some sense with the wider government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who announced the introduction of the program "Clean air" and the use for deep thermomodernization of buildings in the next 10 years of PLN 25.30 billion. This is the first such long-term action of the government, which aims to eliminate bad fuel quality, as well as to reduce the phenomenon of smog, with which Poland, Polish cities have been struggling for a long time. It should be stressed that these are also proposals from the Ministry of Finance in conjunction with the Ministry of the Environment in the field of tax relief. Here was the announcement that since 2019 the taxpayer will be able to deduct 20% income, but not more than 53 000. zł, to thermomodernize your building. Taking into account these proposals of the law, it must be said that these are coherent actions aimed, first, as in this law, at regulating the market for solid fuels, but also more broadly, at systemic action aimed at guaranteeing better air quality for Poland, the Polish society. The Court of Justice of the European Union has expressed its negative opinion on the level of smog in Polish cities, but it has just assessed the PM10 dust concentration activities in the years 2007 to 2015 and called on Poland to take immediate action to improve air quality. It should be noted that it is the current government that has already prepared projects by the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, as well as now - Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who is carrying out real actions in this direction. Unfortunately, the problem of smog has not yet been resolved, but it can be said, in agreement with the Court of Justice, that by abandoning the predecessors of the current government. Originally, it was assumed as a priority in ordering the sales market - as a result of cooperation with the Ministry of Development, and now with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology the regulations have been extended to include a certification system to clarify the quality requirements for solid fuels, methods of testing the quality of solid fuels, sampling of solid fuels and the model introduced and quality certificate. The certification of solid fuels in the Polish market will clearly eliminate the worst quality coal from sales, which will be of great importance for improving air purity. An important issue regulated by the law is to limit its operation in the trading of solid fuels to installations below 1 MW, i.e. to the municipal and residential sector. From the consumer's point of view, the law will enable the market to be organised, provide access to fuel that meets the relevant requirements. The seller will be required to have certificates guaranteeing the quality of the goods sold, and the Trade Inspection authorised to check the correct functioning of the sales will receive effective tools to eliminate frauds - so to speak - who will try to market poor quality fuel. On 25 April this year. She worked on a project by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury. As a result of this work, a number of amendments have been made. The Commission unanimously welcomed the proposal but left some details to be decided at second reading. The details are, among other things. establishing a penalty planner or a catalogue of emergency events - in the event of their existence, the Minister will be able to introduce special regulations. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u59	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Time one-minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is very much needed. These changes concern combustion in domestic installations and about 20% of private homes are used for heating. coal from Polish mines. Hence my question: How will this affect Polish mining? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u61	Thank you. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in which it concluded that Poland exceeded the limit values for PM10 dust concentrations and did not take appropriate action to improve air quality in this respect. The Court referred to this as a failure and, at the same time, committed our state to take appropriate steps in this regard, hence today's law. During the committee's work on this project, the Minister of Energy informed that Polish coal coming to individual customers is of good quality, i.e. bad quality is coal, which comes from imports, so I wanted to ask what is the trend in coal imports in recent years and what are its directions, and whether this trend is increasing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u63	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Low emissions are aero-sanitary hazard, because at a low level. By nature and by name, the term "low" suggests that it is a weak threat, and it is quite the opposite. Low emissions are high concentrations of toxins in the air pollutants we breathe, water and food suspended at ground level. This affects the burning of cheap coal with added sulphur, ash, coal mule and, unfortunately, garbage. The result of this combustion is a high concentration in the air of sulphur oxides, nitrogen, heavy metals, aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins. It is a huge pathophysiological problem which increases the incidence of cardiovascular, respiratory and cancer diseases, congenital defects in children. It's 45 grand a year, not 50. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's gonna die less...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u65	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u66	...that's why I have a question: What will the Ministry of Energy assume... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u67	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A very good law, expected by all, whose main effect and objective is to monitor and control the quality of solid fuels, with particular emphasis on reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases and other substances. In addition, another effect is to organise the solid fuel market and enable consumers to buy solid fuels that meet the quality requirements for fuels intended for the municipal and residential sectors. Minister, I have a question: Why doesn't the Act prohibit the use of low-quality fuels in industry and energy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u69	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u70	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you, Minister, for this project, I ask the question: Did the Ministry of Energy really estimate the costs of implementing this law and what entities have made this estimate? I mean whether the costs have been calculated for the State Treasury and how, costs for coal producers, and costs for average Kowalski, for households, for the taxpayer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u71	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Eight years in which our environmental protection has been neglected, especially in terms of fuel efficiency, fuel quality. Today, the rapporteur... actually, on behalf of the Civic Platform, was talking about closing the mines. Let me remind you that it was Mr Buzek who caused the mining industry to have enormous problems for you. Therefore, I have this question: What will be the economic consequences for activities of more than 10,000? Polish entrepreneurs dealing with coal trading in Poland after the entry into force of the Act amending the Act on the monitoring and control of fuel quality? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u73	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u74	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the bill will touch more than 5.5 million farms - you clearly write about it. Kantar published in September 2017 a study indicating that at present 31% households are heated with coal, living in energy poverty and the poorest 10% out of them 1/4 of its budget is spent on the purchase of coal. Minister, I wanted to ask you if you're planning any concrete help for those poor, sick people, for those old people who live and are supposed to warm the apartment themselves. How is the Polish industry prepared to deliver high quality coal? Will the widows and orphans of the miners receive a coal depot this year for the purchase of this coal? Is that possible? Will this bill come into force this year and when, if you would be kind to say so. And one last question. Will this law reduce imports of coal from Russia [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in what size? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u75	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Namely, the coal producers, the mines. In view of the fact that sales will be limited, the possible cost incurred by workplaces and whether the government is planning any compensation or relief for hard coal producers because they will not be able to sell fleet concentrates, mules, etc.? Therefore, how will this be seen with regard to hard coal producers in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the residents of the municipality of Dębno from Małopolska Voivodeship, who listen to our discussions at the gallery. [[Applause]] And I ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the data provided by the European Environment Agency, Prof. Leczston from the Silesian Heart Disease Center in Poland dies less than 50,000 a year. persons due to diseases caused by poor air quality. Of course, the fight against smog, with this poor quality of air, is important, Minister, but I have a question about effectiveness. There are doubts about the admission of coal indirectly imported from outside the European Union by other countries from the European Union. What's the procedure here? Will it really be so if this import from countries outside the European Union is carried out through countries that belong to the European Union that this marketing authorisation will not be necessary? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u79	Thank you. The question will be asked by Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u80	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I said earlier in my speech, imports of coal, Minister, increased by as much as 65% in 2017 in relation to the previous year and was at more than 13 million tons, of which 9 million tons from Russia. Does the Ministry of Energy plan to introduce, of course, other than the increase in production in companies controlled by the State Treasury, some tools that would inhibit this phenomenon? If so, what is it? And the second question, because, in the course of the opinion, both producers and traders who distribute fuel, namely coal, paid attention to shortening the vacathio legis from 6 months to 14 days. Minister, what are the costs for coal companies, producers, for the implementation of this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u81	Thank you. The question will be asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue related to fuel quality was raised from the very beginning by members of the Krakow Smog Alarm and later Polish Smog Alarm. Without a doubt, this law is a very important direction in this area. Seeing the great enthusiasm that accompanies the Members of the PiS, I regret that after 31 months we are not going to proceed with this bill, but we will actually and reliably be able to assess it only when the regulation on fuel quality is known. Minister! Hence my question. Why will this regulation not be adopted in agreement with the Minister responsible for the environment or the Minister competent for the economy? After all, the Minister of the Environment is responsible for air quality. The modern has tabled an amendment accordingly. I hope that the government will be in favour of such a solution, because these are actions that must be undertaken together. You can't just look at them from a sectoral point of view. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! I have a question for the Minister. Does the government plan to present reports, e.g. A year? How did this bill affect the cost of house heating? I'm asking because I'm worried about the heat prices going up, which are already high. That's what our countrymen fear. What does life show? Anything changes, it's all bullshit. There is talk of regulation, about emissions, about quality, improvement of air purity, and then such a law will affect price increases, in this case heating, which our countrymen will feel. That's how life shows. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This is another bill, which is extremely expected by Poles. It is good that the opposition appreciates our enthusiasm on this project. I hope that this enthusiasm will also be given to the opposition. I would like to ask why the bill does not introduce quality control of solid fuels burned in households. How will the checks be carried out, where they will be carried out, and who will carry them out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There were questions about import volumes. You know very well that in 2017, more than 13 million tons were imported, 13.3 million tons, and in 2018, probably 15 million tons, of which 2/3 are eastern, Russian. What is happening in the industry when it comes to securing Polish power plants, planned to burn Polish coal, so that they will burn Polish coal? Would you mind referring to that? That's one thing I'd like to raise. The second point is that you did not respond as a ministry, neither you, Mr Tchórzewski, nor you, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister, to the issues raised by distributors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who are worried about jobs in coal distribution. We have growing imports and distributors at border terminals. Will these terminals, or will this work not be transferred beyond Poland's borders and therefore will the jobs in Poland be eliminated? Please refer to this issue because you have not responded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the committee meeting we talked, among others. on the question of the possible introduction of a derogation in the provisions of the Law in the case of products of the Brunette Coal Mine Sieniaw. I must say, I have contact with producers who use mining in Sieniawa mine. They produce carbon dust based briquettes, which are very similar in parameters to the caloricity of hard coal, while differing in the fact that when burning heats and burns better. By not emitting smog into the environment, it does not contaminate the air so much. On the other hand, if we accept those records that are today, brown coal will be completely eliminated if we do not introduce this derogation. And today the market in Poland is dominated by the German Vattenfall, which through its intermediaries introduces 150 thousand. t per year on the Polish market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the impact assessment of this law, there is no information on how this problem has been resolved in other countries, particularly in the countries of the European Union. I'll ask for that information. Second, it seems like 100,000. fuel warehouses and 32 commercial inspection inspectors in the first year, that is very little, but they may not be able to control the phenomenon of the black market. And this black market is going to get bigger, the more energy poverty is going to grow. Please tell us how the government intends to control energy poverty comprehensively. Does he intend to introduce subsidies especially for pensioners, the elderly, so that they can live decently, enjoying the warmth of the house? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u93	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the positions of the clubs on this bill, for the suggestions, for the questions and for what we have so far had on the committee as regards the climate of the discussion, because indeed the law in my mind - and not just in mine - is important. But I'm gonna answer the questions because there are some issues that have been raised here. As part of his club speech, Mr Sitarski asked about the fiscal burden for the industry. For today, we are having a dialogue with the Ministry of Finance to examine where we can actually look for reserves when it comes to giving up certain taxes, although greater involvement was on the side of investing our mines and creating an investment system for mines. In his speech, Mr Suchoń of Modernity raised the issue, and it seems important to me, concerning the length of the procedure. I would like to answer why this bill has not been examined since April. Not because it concerned three ministries properly, because the Ministry of Energy hosted it, but the consultations were conducted with the Ministry of Development at that time, and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Ministry of the Environment. As a result of these consultations in the Ministry of Development, it was considered appropriate that we submit this bill for notification, and after we started our first reading, so we started the procession, a speech was addressed to the European Commission. The law was notified to the European Commission on 4 March. The Ministry was sent a letter from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology dated 18 June, which shows that we agreed on this during a mandatory period. The Member States and the Commission have not notified comments and opinions on the draft. Hence the gap between reading first and today. That's all I wanted to say. On the other hand, as regards Mr Kotowski's statement, speaking in the context of RES, it happened that actually on the eve, because on Friday, the second reading procedure had already entered into force. It's signed, it's published, we're just waiting for this 14-day period. The RES Act enters into force, long awaited. We have tried it with all the clubs quite well, so that we see here a very solid raw material and RES alliance, which appeared because there is no RES without conventional energy based on other raw materials, on other energy sources than renewable ones, because RES must function in the alliance, as far as the system is concerned, with other energy based on other sources. As far as questions are concerned, I will begin with Mrs Szydleko's question. What costs must the Polish mining industry bear or what projects must it undertake? So, ladies and gentlemen, as early as last year, knowing that we are going to proceed on this bill because we prepared it in May last year, we have invested 70 million in processing plants, so that the quality of coal that will be directed to the market from our coal companies will correspond, among others. these parameters so that we do not have problems with clean air or building a more robust sales market in terms of quality. Hence this amount of 70 million, which is directly foreseen for processing plants. Previously, there were no such large investments in processing plants. Mrs Navel from the PO - the issue of weak coal, which comes from the outside. What is the reason for the increase in carbon flow from abroad? I ask you, when it comes to the influx of coal not only from the Russian direction but also from other directions, but especially from the Russian direction, it comes from good quality coal, but also from the weak one. We're talking about the so-called. the lack we want to eliminate from our market. This bill will actually cause this non-sort to be eliminated from the Polish market. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would stop - two words - on the issue of imports. There were a few questions - and Mr Bańkowski and Mr Gadowski - about import growth. Yes, there is an increase in imports, and I will say that this is a certain concern of mine as the person responsible for the coal sector. But, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? Yeah, we were all fed with information that we have too much coal on the Polish market. As you've noticed, there's been a cooling down of the sector for a few good years. And I don't want to argue with my predecessors here because I don't want to claim that someone's making mistakes, but let's see, ladies and gentlemen, we've had a very long period of coal production, too many mines, too many mines, too many mines, and then suddenly we've cooled down the mines. We have actually since 2017, when we started managing the sector - because in 2016 it was a rescue, it was a fire extinguisher - since 2017 we have spent more than 1,200 million for the Polish Mining Group for individual years, probably by 2022, for investments, in order to start on the one hand a qualitatively better coal, and on the other hand to respond to the demand for coal. We have a parametric programme on Polish energy and I think we will discuss it this year. There we predict the role of the Polish coal sector by 2050 - 50% of the raw material of hard coal, brown coal in the Polish energy space. And this must be answered in the first place by Polish mining, as well as the entire heating system, which, turns out, is powered by coal from the outside. That's why this year is very important to us, because it actually appeared to us quite significant, I admit, an increase in the amount of carbon from the outside. But what does he show? He, too - this is a bad phenomenon - is a very strong incentive for us in a situation where we have COP this year to show that we want to cool down and we have no plans, Mr Bańkowski, to eliminate mines, and please do not discuss this anymore. It is at my heart that we launch a new mine in the Polish Mining Group, because we need coal, and as far as this is concerned, this is explained. Today we have a challenge, ladies and gentlemen. We've got an analysis from the outside of 13.14 million, ba, 15, we've done an analysis for last year. This shows that there is a market for coal in Poland. As there is a market for coal in Poland, we should use it and not discuss whether to invest in Polish coal, because then we leave this pension related to the profit of importing coal to other players in Europe or outside Europe, but in part of the world. I think it is very important that we be aware that Poland needs coal, without discussing whether one or another government is talking about it because the market dictates it to us. Hence these investments, which are very important to us, especially as regards the Polish Mining Group, so that we can increase the amount of coal on the Polish market. But as you know, in mining, we know today whether we know about last year... There's no way in a year or a half a year to run the coal deposits we'd like. We also have a problem with companies in the environment that have been mutilated by the crisis, and they also rebuild as those that will not always start in tenders. And that's also a big challenge for us. Ba, we also rebuild management staff and staff in individual companies. As regards Mrs Kaczorowski's question, the question concerned the issue of low emissions. The environmental effect of eliminating coal mules, Commissioner, will above all be to reduce emissions of all dusts. This is very important. When a mule is replaced by a medium-quality carbon fuel, dust emissions will be reduced two and a half times when carbon mule is replaced by so-called carbon mule. better coal or ecogrosh, or solid fuel of good quality, dust emissions will be reduced almost seven times. So this is the concrete effect of this bill when it comes to clean air. As regards Mrs Kozanecka's question, you asked about the ban on the use of low-quality fuels in industry, why this law does not provide for it. The ban on low-quality fuels will not include industry and energy, i.e. installations above 1 MW of nominal heat output, because we have installations that are ecologically capable of burning these coals, which is why we only included installations up to 1 MW. As regards Mrs Glenc's question, it was a question of the real cost of implementing this law. The costs for the State Treasury were calculated by the UOKiK on the basis of its long experience with controls, the costs for producers were estimated by the Ministry of Energy. As I mentioned, investment outlays are among others. to compensate for the loss of 50 million per balance in sales on low quality coals. Through investment outlays we go into better prices when it comes to coal, and here we are able to compensate ourselves for this price. Of course, the challenge is for us to be able to compensate where these coals are more expensive, and I am about to say about the Clean Air programme, how we are going to compensate for whether we are trying to compensate for the rise in coal prices when it comes to individual combustion. Mr Matusiak asked what the economic consequences for more than 10 000 activities would be. Polish coal trading companies following the entry into force of the Act amending the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring System. Manufacturers and intermediaries who offer solid fuels for the household market will be required to use fuel quality certificates. This will enable the buyer to obtain reliable and comprehensive information about the product. For failure to issue a certificate or for the sale of non-certificated fuel, fines will be imposed by the Commercial Inspection, whereas for the placing on the market of solid fuel which does not comply with the quality regulation fines will be imposed on undertakings, it is also envisaged that there will be deprivation of liberty if it is drastic and permanent action by the coal trader. Mr Gadowski asked for compensation for 5.5 million people who would be covered by this law. I must say that it is also as if it was fulfilling those assumptions which had previously been adopted by the Marshals in particular voivodships, I will say that in six voivodships already made such a decision, so this phenomenon we had last year. The Clean Air programme mentioned by Prime Minister Morawiecki, which is connected with thermomodernization, with the replacement of installations, with the creation of heating support, as well as the transition to other heating systems, is among others. this big program, which is intended to compensate and is also intended to support the withdrawal of low-quality coals from domestic fireplaces. As far as compensation is concerned - it does not concern this law - we are in the process of inter-ministerial consultations. We, as far as the Ministry of Energy is concerned, have already prepared the bill, we have answered the questions of the Ministry of Finance, we have now - actually on days - entered into interministerial consultations. I am determined that we can implement this law as soon as possible, and I confirm the will to implement this law this year. As soon as possible. I told you about the coal import, it's a challenge. On the one hand, it is a negative phenomenon, on the other hand, as regards COP, it shows that in Poland there is - whether we are mining coal - a market for Polish coal. This is very good information when it comes to all those who criticize that we are dealing with the hard coal sector, in the context of, for example, clean air, for example, the climate package, such as these talks about decarbonisation. We, in need of coal, should invest in this sector. This is the Polish state right. As regards Mr Sitarski's question about fuel quality, I have already mentioned this: 70 million we are investing, 50 million are really coming out of business, but with better prices for these better grades of coal, these 50 million will definitely be made up. Here we really change the sales market qualitatively, but we also change the philosophy qualitatively. The point is, we invest, we mine under a client. This is the new quality of what is happening today in the Polish mining sector. Mr Suchoń asked about the effectiveness of this law if coal comes in from outside... I must say that we actually consulted with the UOKiK last year and with the Ministry of Finance in order to, like fuel, this law, which sealed the VAT system, like this system, build a system of control also in Poland. Even if we get through the border, there'll be checks on the stacks. These three regulations that we have presented to you... Here's my request. You are proposing that we issue regulations either through consultation with three ministries or with the Ministry of the Environment. We consulted with ministries: environment and development, then ministry. It's about us hosting the regulation. We will, of course, consult on the content of these regulations. Every two years we submit a report and an analysis on the functioning of the rules. This is the answer for the Member who asked how this would work after the entry into force, what tools we have, as we foresee, when it comes to the analysis of this law. So the regulations... And that's what we have in the bill: every two years we will submit an analysis on how to improve air, what it looks like on the coal market. This means that in the law itself, as you will see, in the regulation that we have already presented, from the very beginning we present... Even if coal were in storage, it is because it is necessary to demonstrate the certificate of what is being sold - we have provided for in one regulation, who will examine carbon samples, what parameters must be met to have laboratories and assess those carbon samples, who will take them, who will examine them and what the consequences are in terms of non-compliance with the provisions on carbon parameters in circulation in Poland, which are in the regulation - I think we should be effective. There are always some challenges that need to be analysed, of course, but I think we've done a good job in this respect. Of course, we'll be watching it. Mr Bańkowski - an increase in imports of coal. That's what I mentioned. Why shorten the date of entry into force of the Act? That's because the bill's been delayed a little bit. I personally care so much that before the heating period, which is before September, or actually during the holiday period, we can talk about it so that all those who... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I have another one, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u95	But just a second. To the punch line. Finish it. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Good, 'cause there's other... [[Good bill, thank you.]] What I want to say is that when it comes to shortening the deadline, it is because we wanted those who trade coal to have the right information that the bill came into force, and that we could prepare for it so that we did not have problems selling coal during the heating period. As for the other questions, I think we'll answer in writing because it's time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Sea terminals.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[There will be no coal in Puławy.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and certain other laws (Prints No. 2549 and 2612). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the act on combating unfair competition and certain other laws, print No 2549. The Sejm at its 63rd meeting on 7 June 2018 pursuant to Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 14 June, presents a proposal to the High House for further proceedings. The purpose of the proposed law is to transpose into Polish law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified information: the information of a company and classified commercial information - the secrets of the company - from their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Directive summarises nearly five years of work carried out by European Union bodies in order to harmonise the rules on standards for the protection of confidential business information. In the light of its objectives, the Directive aims to establish a minimum standard for the protection of confidential business information as a tool for managing competitiveness and innovation. The draft law consists of amendments to the law on combating unfair competition, amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, amendments to the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, as well as transitional and final provisions. The main issues that are trying to correlate this with the European Parliament directive are: defining information protected as a company's secret, i.e. above all, to determine the scope of the measure in question; to identify actions relating to the secret of an undertaking which constitute an act of unfair competition (transfer, disclosure and use) in various aspects of the phenomenon; to determine the penalties provided for in cases of unfair competition in respect of the secret of the undertaking. The amendments to the Civil Law Code relate primarily to the scope of the protection proceedings and issues relating to the bail for the protection of claims. In the case of amendments to the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, it is primarily a precise definition of the company's secrecy prepared for the purposes of the Act. After a detailed examination of the draft, the committee asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The aim of the project is to transpose into the Polish legal order the 2006 European Parliament and Council Directive No 943 on the protection of the scope of classified technical knowledge and commercially classified information (the secrets of enterprises) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. This Directive aims to establish a minimum standard for the protection of confidential information. The solutions adopted shall determine the European level of protection of classified commercial information. This is necessary in view of the fact that the current rules discourage businesses from taking cross-border action in view of the different levels of protection of their secrets in different countries. In the longer term, the proposed solutions are intended to improve the functioning of the common market. In view of the specific nature of the subject-matter of the amendment, the provisions of this Act cover several legal acts, i.e. the law on combating unfair competition, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. It should be emphasized that in Poland we have a long, 90-year tradition of protecting the secrets of the company, and for 20 years in our legal order there has been a recognition of an unlawful violation of the company's secrecy as an act of unfair competition. Adapting EU solutions does not require transposition in the form of a completely new law and can be carried out on the basis of the laws already in force. We are implementing a number of amendments to the Act on Combating Unfair Competition as a basic act. We introduce, among others. the definition of the company's secret which constitutes the transposition of Article. 1 and 5 directives. We then implement civil law solutions, which will make it easier for operators to exercise their rights in the event of a breach of the company's secrecy. It is worth noting that we are already applying the legal solutions required by Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Directives. It's about an anti-executive action, Art. 840 point 2 of the Civil Procedure Code, and an action for determination, Article. 189 Code of Civil Procedure. This is evidence of a lack of necessity, as I mentioned earlier, the introduction of an additional, completely new law. Changes in the C.P.C. include changes in the protection proceedings, Article. 739 § 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, on bail against claims of persons other than those under obligation. In accordance with this amendment, the situation of other persons whose rights, as appropriate, may be infringed as a result of the enforcement of the freezing order will be treated on an equal footing with the situation in which the freezing order interferes. Additional mechanisms have also been put in place to secure possible claims and to secure the creditor. The amendments to the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection are purely technical and are a consequence of a change in the definition of company secrecy. Overall, the draft regulation aims to enhance the protection of the company's secrecy, which is technical, technological and organisational information. It is worth noting that the changes implemented will benefit the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. According to the preamble to the implementing directive, the rules on the protection of business secrets are of greater importance to small and medium-sized enterprises than to other market participants. These solutions should contribute to an increase in the competitiveness of the economy. The Law and Justice Club supports the project presented. We believe that it should be adopted as soon as possible, especially as time limits apply here. On behalf of the club, I submit five technical amendments to the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Antoni Men, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws, prints No. 2549 and 2612. The project concerns the implementation in Polish law of Directive 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified know-how and business secrets from their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Civic Platform Club supports this project because there is a low legal culture among entrepreneurs in our society when it comes to patents. It is therefore good that such a directive has been created and will be uniform for the entire territory of the European Union. During the detailed examination of the draft law after first reading at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, a number of comments were submitted by a representative of the Government of Patent Ombudsmen. They were related to Article. 1 amendment of the first Article. 11th Amendment Act. Most of these arguments would have to be accepted because they were legitimate, but because of the position of the Ministry of Justice that the Act contains open catalogues of circumstances and acts constituting acts of unfair competition, i.e. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 and 4 of that amended Article. 11... The Ministry has taken the view that closed catalogues are dangerous in the investigation process, because criminals will always find new opportunities, which is why the committee accepted the Ministry's argument. On the other hand, when it comes to lips. Two and five... Some comments went beyond the provisions of the Directive, so we did not raise that. On the other hand, the discussion continued on the subject of the paragraph. Two and five. In this respect, my club will make two amendments concerning both mouths. Two, as well as mouth. 5, because in our opinion these two paragraphs are burdened with shortcomings in the implementation of the directive into Polish law. In the first amendment we propose in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 add the word "commercial', as this term is defined in the definitions of company secrecy, both in the preamble to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, hereinafter referred to as the Directive, in point 14 and in Article. 2 of the Directive and is included in the name of the directive itself - the rapporteur read the name - on the protection of classified know-how and business secrets from their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. This deadline should be introduced into the definition, because it is very important from the point of view of the entrepreneur, because it can affect the condition of the entrepreneur. These are information about customers, their needs, customer database, distributors' networks, costs, prices or sources of supply. Other terms in this paragraph shall not protect this information. In the second amendment we propose in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 delete the following entry: and when the information was obtained on the basis of a free legal action, even if the person did not know it or could not know it with due diligence. The question arises as to whether a person who did not know and even with due diligence could commit an act of unfair competition. This may be the case not only when information is obtained on the basis of a free operation, which is recorded there, but also on the basis of a paid activity. This provision may be used in an unjustified manner by competition, as well as by large operators with better legal facilities. The proposed regulation is too far-reaching beyond the scope of minimising the adaptation of national legislation to the Directive. The proposed amendment goes further than the scope of the regulation contained in Article. 4 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Directives: Unlawful acquisition, exploitation and disclosure of business secrets. Plus, it's a sign of mouth. 3 is a denial of the circumstances referred to in paragraph. 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Here you are, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Kukiz Club15 since its first reading on the implementation of the European Union Directive has not changed, but I would like to use these few minutes to raise the issue of copyright or patents. I myself am an infoanarchist, I prefer to protect property rights, to protect the company's information on a market basis, the company itself. I am rather sceptical about legal solutions, especially as we are currently dealing with the exploitation by larger, stronger operators, usually from the US market, of patent rights to unfairly combat smaller entities. Whatever patent law seems to help protect the small, it helps to increase the innovation of the economy, in the modern world it may be the other way around, i.e. great giants, e.g. In the field of mobile phone production, patent wars, they spend millions of dollars to limit competition. We know such absurdities as patenting a rectangle with rounded corners. The same company patented a white paper bag, the same company wanted to patent even phones with a touch screen. Many such patents, which are adopted by US legislation, allow these giants to fight against smaller entities, including those that grow up in Poland and also act innovatively. In view of the above, I would like to give a little warning against too restrictive statutory provisions protecting patent rights, because they can turn against those they are intended to serve against small innovative companies. Great giants can sue ridiculously. We had an example of online shops in Poland that had an apple in their logo or had an a.pl domain, and a great American giant sued them for it, wanted to take away their domain, wanted to take away their trademark because he had money for lawyers. I would like the patent protection law to be created not only for large giants, but also for small companies whose logo accidentally has an apple or some other common element. As a Kukiz club15, of course, we support the provisions of the law in this form, this implementation of the EU directive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u104	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a general rule, we are in favour of this project, but I agree with the doubts raised by the honourable Member. Those rules seem to be working out. I hope the committee leans over them. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is needed, it doesn't seem to cause any controversy, we'll be in favour again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u106	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and some other laws, prints No. 2549 and 2612. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft amendment of the law adapts Polish law to European Union rules on the protection of classified know-how and commercially classified information, in short, goes towards the protection of business secrets. They will be subject to stricter penalties and the entity that benefits from disclosure will have to pay compensation equal to the licence fee. Currently, national rules in the European Union create an unequal level of protection of business secrets. These differences may discourage entrepreneurs from taking up activities of an international nature, particularly in an area requiring investment in innovation. The project proposes e.g. clarification of the definition of company secrecy - mainly its form and availability - and the introduction of new legal protection measures in the event of breach of company secrecy. These include the publication of a judgment or information on its content, the settlement of remuneration for the use of the company's secrecy in the future and the determination of compensation as the equivalent of the licence fee due for the exercise of the company's secrecy. Ladies and gentlemen! The amended provisions also introduce criminal liability for persons who use or disclose the secret of an undertaking that they have become aware of in connection with their participation in proceedings relating to an act of unfair competition or in connection with the reading of an act of such proceedings, in so far as the Court of First Instance has ruled out the disclosure of the case. This will apply to all participants in the proceedings: parties, representatives, experts, translators, members of the formation of the court, minutesmen, employees of the Registry of the court, as well as persons who, without being participants in the proceedings, have obtained access to the file, e.g. in connection with visiting activities. The new solutions will allow participants in the European Union's single internal market to benefit from the same protection of business secrecy. This should, on the one hand, discourage unfair competition and, on the other hand, create a legal framework for the use of know-how. This should make the European Union a more competitive market. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support the changes being made, acting on behalf of and for the benefit of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If so, please. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a question about the consultation with medium-sized and small companies, as we have said, these regulations will also have a major impact on medium-sized and small enterprises. I wanted to ask the question: To what extent have these consultations been carried out? What were the opinions? Were these opinions taken into account and did they agree with the government's position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You used such an argument concerning the mouth. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 of the amended law that there are such laws today, and no one complains about it. However, it seems to me that the introduction of such a provision, once the new directive has been adopted, will put small businesses at risk, and that this government will particularly care about innovation and innovation in Poland, that foreign entities, especially large foreign entities, will have more power because they have a legal expertise, have good lawyers and will be able to harass those small ones who will produce something similar there. Such overzealous implementation of this directive seems to be detrimental to the Polish economy. That's why, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where this is incompatible, it is too far-reaching from Article. 4 directives, however, should we withdraw because of government policy and the Prime Minister's policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Gawron's questions about the stakeholders we consulted on this project, I will now find a list. In any case, they were certainly representatives of the entrepreneurial environment, both bigger and smaller business: Employers of the Republic of Poland, Confederation of Leviatan, Polish Business Council, Business Centre Club, National Chamber of Commerce, Polish Craft Union, then trade unions and other organizations. So that these are, it seems, all major organizations bringing together Polish entrepreneurs: and the larger ones, and the smaller ones. In general, during the public consultation, this law raised no greater doubts. These doubts, which he raised in his question - about which in a moment - also in the committee by Mr Mężydło, did not arise from the organization of entrepreneurs as such, but from the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen, that is, the organization which groups representatives of this group. So that the law was consulted, we did not have a negative reaction, on the contrary, it was seen rather as a positive action, of course inspired by the obligation resulting from the directive, but meeting the interests of Polish entrepreneurs, including small entrepreneurs. With regard to the question of Mr Husband relating to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and, in fact, behaviour, not any change to this principle - which has been the rule that has been in force since the adoption of this law, i.e. for more than 20 years - concerning weaker legal protection of activities carried out free of charge, because this is the question, namely, of this passage: when the information was obtained on the basis of a free legal act - even if the person did not know about it or could not know it with due care, it is a solution that proved to be true in the course of the current regulation. Apart from the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen and this House - Mr. or Members of the Platform and Modern, no one denied the principle of less protection of unpaid activities, which is based on a number of provisions of Polish law. It is obvious that if something is obtained under the title of freemask, it does not have to be as heavily protected as something that is obtained for payment. This is a principle that has been in force in the Polish legal system, a principle recognised, applied under this law for years. Of course, the principle is not covered by the Directive, and we therefore did not have to change it. The European legislator leaves full freedom here. The Polish legislator could therefore waive this principle of weaker protection of the action carried out under the title of freemask, but he did not have to do so. I do not see any reason, especially the reasons of the implementation obligation, to depart from this principle. There is no, I repeat, in practice any evidence that there are problems with the implementation of this regulation in practice, and it is not the case of the Ministry of Justice or the government to change something for the change itself. This is a good solution, a non-controversial solution, a solution that does not need to be changed because the Union is telling us, or because such and not different is the directive. So why change something that works? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u113	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Antoni Menyłko, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Apparently, at the end of my speech, I had to read some of the speeches quite quickly, and maybe you didn't notice. This is not about the fact that this information was provided free of charge, because this is a false statement. The most important thing is that this person did not know, even with due diligence, that she might not know that she was committing an act of unfair competition. And here it doesn't matter. I talked about it in my speech, I read it, I can tell you. We propose to delete this because this can happen - I have clearly read it - not only when obtaining information on the basis of a free operation, but also on the basis of a paid activity. The point is, you can't accuse a person who didn't know about an act of unfair competition. I think that's where you made that runway, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To say that it's free, and so on, that it's an excuse, but it's really about something else. Whether she is paid or free of charge - even if she were paid - I still think that this cannot be the case, this cannot be the case. And it's gonna be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u116	Certainly stronger players will be able to fight against smaller players in a competitive market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u117	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law on the national cybersecurity system (prints No. 2505 and 2659). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few points of reference: the European Parliament and Council Directive of mid-2016 obliges European Union Member States to adopt national cybersecurity strategies and to identify or establish cyber security competent authorities and to set up so-called cybersecurity authorities. Computer incident response teams, from an English shortcut called CSIRT - and this shortcut I will continue to use. It also requires cybersecurity of information systems in service sectors. key to maintaining critical socio-economic activity, i.a. in energy, transport, banking, health care. The deadline for the implementation of this Directive has expired at the end of the first decade of May this year. The draft law which is currently in second reading is the first act which sets out the principles of the functioning of the national cybersecurity system in general, but does not regulate the issues already identified in other laws. It can be estimated that the law correctly states the state cybersecurity system. It seems that if it is meticulously implemented, it will create the conditions for security in the digital space. Conceived performance of tasks under the Act will be the responsibility of dozens of entities, which may pose a problem in ensuring the integrity of the system. The significant changes that have been made to the government project so far are among others. the following. In the law's dictionary, the term "digital services' and "key services' is specified. A catalogue of institutions that can be made available on request from the list of key service operators has been extended to include a new entity recently appointed, i.e. the State Protection Service. The provisions on CSIRT recommendations for the use of IT devices or software have been amended so that they are strictly embedded in the concepts relevant to the project in question. The project was supplemented by the necessary amendments to the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency Act, in particular the ABW has been given new powers to operate and coordinate an early warning system on the Internet. The project was complemented by the necessary amendments to the Public Procurement Law, in particular the grounds for rejection for public security reasons, namely that it is also a question of the security of entities included in the single list of critical infrastructure facilities, installations, facilities and services. The government text also introduced changes of order and editorial nature, which is a routine case. On the other hand, the committee disagreed with some of the proposals made by Members. She didn't agree, among other things. to carry out every 4 years a security audit of the information system for the provision of a key service, instead of every 2 years as established in the government project. This change was not justified, this possible change was unjustified due to rapid technological change and an audit at a 4-year rate - this is too long. The Commission has not made a proposed amendment concerning the extension of the deadlines to 6 and 12 months respectively, which the government project set for 3 and 6 months, to fulfil specific tasks of key service operators. Key service operators are obliged to protect their systems and fulfil their obligations under the Act as soon as possible. And such an extension of the deadline was unjustified. The Commission also refused to extend the 24-hour deadline for reporting a serious and significant incident to 48 hours. Information on these incidents shall be provided immediately. Of course, this is due to cybersecurity considerations. Parts of the amendments have not been taken into account due to their obvious, inappropriate nature. It was proposed, for example. the addition of a provision enabling the use of the so-called sector-specific IT systems by being able to connect to the central electronic system. It is clear that such operations can be carried out without specific provisions. Nor was it agreed to add a provision on the possibility for sector-specific cybersecurity teams to coordinate educational campaigns, as such campaigns can already be carried out today, nowadays, and this does not require legislation. In conclusion, it should be noted that, given the importance of this new regulation, it should be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u119	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rafał Weber, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u120	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has not changed since the first reading. We can even say that we are even more, even more in favour of this government project, the proposal to regulate the cybersecurity system. In my first speech, I talked about the genesis of this project, the fact that it is related to the EU directive, I talked about the objectives it contains. Now, on the other hand, in this brief speech, I want to spend a few minutes on this time talking about a cybersecurity attorney who is appointed under this law. Addressing the need to strengthen coordination and exchange of information in the strategic and political layer between the institutions responsible for cybersecurity in the civilian, military, key service sectors and the institutions responsible for combating cybercrime, and given that existing activities have been dispersed, the projector assumes the appointment of a government representative for cybersecurity. According to Art. 62 The representative of the government for cybersecurity will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of cybersecurity tasks at national level in the Republic of Poland. A representative of the Government, in the rank of Secretary of State or Undersecretary of State, shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers. His tasks will include: analysis and evaluation of the functioning of the national cybersecurity system on the basis of aggregated data and indicators developed with the involvement of state administrations, competent authorities and CSIRT teams. The Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland referred to in Chapter 13 will be used in the implementation of this process. An element of the strategy is the approach to risk assessment, which will take the form of a cybersecurity risk management methodology developed under the Strategy Action Plan. The government's representative will also be responsible for the opinion of draft legislation and other government documents affecting the implementation of cybersecurity tasks, as well as the initiation of national cybersecurity exercises. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a Cyber Security College as an advisory and advisory body on planning, monitoring and coordinating the activities of CSIRT teams, sectoral cybersecurity teams and competent authorities - says Article. 64. The need to create an advisory body was signalled during the agreement and evaluation of the project with the entities that will form part of the system. The activities of the college will ensure greater consistency and transparency of the system, and will give the issue of cybersecurity an appropriate rank and enable the formulation of coherent orientations and plans to address cyber security threats. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to make one amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u122	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Much has already been said about this law, so I will say in the greatest simplification: this implementation of the NIS Directive obliges all Member States of the European Union to guarantee the right level of cybersecurity at national level, among other things. by setting up cybersecurity competent authorities, setting up computer incident response teams and adopting national cybersecurity strategies. The strategy is here. Work on this law lasted two years, and yet these regulations were not implemented on time. The deadline for implementation was almost 2 months ago, 9 May. Unfortunately, Poland failed to meet this deadline. However, it is worth to say a little more about this bill. The bill is very important, but unfortunately it has been created from the very beginning in the climate of conflict between the Ministry of Digital Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. In this context, it is worth mentioning the fundamental issue of financing institutions that are to take care of, inter alia. o risk analysis, response to serious incidents and risk assessment for systems used to provide key services. It is no secret that there is no money in the budget even for the basic purposes that are mentioned in the Act. The Ministry of Digital Affairs clearly communicated the need to secure funds for these purposes. During the work, the Ministry of Finance prepared comments indicating that action should be taken to ensure that the costs needed to carry out the tasks resulting from the regulations are financed within the limits of expenditure in Part 16, i.e. The law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers, and did not give rise to an application for additional funds from the state budget for this purpose in the current year. Moreover, during the preparation of the 2018 budget, The Ministry of Digitalization applied for 76 million PLN for the implementation of actions which are enshrined in the Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland. What did it turn out to be? Turns out that money, as we hear it, is gone. Important initiatives were planned for this purpose, including: The construction of a central part of the current cybersecurity management system of the Republic of Poland, the construction of a telecommunications subsystem of the cyberspace management system of the Republic of Poland, the construction of an intranet for ministries and central offices, which would enable central government to function even in the event of significant disruptions in the public network, the extension of analytical tools and many other events. Unfortunately, there's no money. The bill, although necessary, is not implemented in an appropriate way, because it introduces some chaos. That is why amendments to this document are needed and these amendments will be presented by Mr Piotr Cieślinski on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ensuring national cybersecurity for public entities as well as private entrepreneurs, this is undoubtedly the key challenge facing you, especially in an era of such universal digitalisation. It's the blood of the economy and the entire social life. The legitimacy to regulate this area must be prepared with the utmost care and based on the widest possible consultation. Unfortunately, these broad consultations were lacking, even though they were. Unfortunately, the examination of the bill submitted leads to the conclusion that the proposals contained in it in a far-reaching and absolutely unjustified manner will allow the State to intervene in the sphere of economic operators' activities. This raises our greatest concerns and concerns, dear countries, because it will undoubtedly lead to a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Polish economy. We are dealing with this, and this must be clearly emphasised, using the current legislative need to take over the next area of functioning of the State. We can't agree to that, and we won't. In addition, the project unfortunately contains a number of substantive shortcomings that make this legislation highly ineffective, and there is a chance that in the end cybersecurity is written in our country by a large C. In view of the time constraints, I will only point out a few fundamental errors. Firstly, the very broad powers of the CSIRTs to require telecommunications operators to provide information on their activities, as in my opinion [[♪ The bell ♪]] may significantly reduce the freedom of business and thus reduce the effectiveness of cybersecurity activities. Marshal, one more moment, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u125	But very briefly. I have to watch my time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u126	No limitation of the powers of supervisory authorities and controls. There are no precise rules for the functioning of subsidiaries of state bodies. No publication of key implementing acts. I know that they could arise later, but since we are in a hurry with this bill because there are so many delays, we could, ladies and gentlemen, help entrepreneurs and include these acts in this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u127	Mr President, I would very much ask you to move towards conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u128	There is no single incident reporting point at national level, which is also a very important thing. In view of the above, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the contested bill, because that is what the interests of the state require, but we also propose a package of amendments which I have shown above exclude. That is why I am asking you and appealing for them to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And please, Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 expressed its opinion at first reading, and we actively participated in the work of both the committee and the subcommittee set up for this purpose, and there we expressed our concerns about certain points. I think that the substantive part of the discussion takes place mainly in committee. Here we can only present our views on the committee report at the moment. I am pleased that colleagues from the Civic Platform have tabled a package of amendments that we will be considering today at the committee meeting at hours. 18. There, I think there will be a thorough discussion on this subject, which specifically in this project is still to be improved, although I admit that I am a little surprised because I did not see this activity during the work of the subcommittee. I think there was a great deal of room at the time for these amendments to be tabled, while still working on the committee. We'd be done with that, colloquially speaking. The Kukiz Club15, seeing the need to introduce these rules, first of all to introduce EU law, which we were obliged to do, as it had already fallen from this speaker more than 2 months ago, despite the fact that we are doing it with a slip, according to the statement: it is better late than at all, it is for further proceding and will present its concerns during the work of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski presented the position of the club in writing. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u132	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ministers, why don't you want to protect the money of Poles? The legal act we are currently debating contains, among others, the failure of payment service providers of national payment institutions and clearing houses is missing in the act, in the first annex, of those entities that ensure the security of non-cash transactions, in simple words: transactions regulated by payment cards. This is what we talked about in the subcommittee, in the committee, and today we are still talking about it. You have to lean on it, because cybersecurity in the country is also the security of our finances. Today, thieves don't have to break into the vault, they just have to take control of the payment cards. Bend over these amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] help protect the money of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u134	Thank you. Minister! The digital state must be safe, but the security of citizens online cannot be guaranteed only on paper. I would like to ask: Where is the money that the Ministry of Digitalization has been seeking for months to implement a number of actions necessary to implement the Strategy of Cybersecurity of the Republic of Poland? The Ministry requested 76 million PLN to carry out key tasks related to the cybersecurity of our citizens. That money wasn't granted. How does the Ministry intend to do this if the money is elsewhere? You can create a law, you can create beautifully described legal acts, but it will do nothing if there are no real actions, they are needed, but this cannot be achieved without adequate funding. Minister, where's the money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Minister Karol Okoński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I must disagree first of all with the thesis from the introduction to the question or to Mr Suski's comments, because he has presented this law in some dramatic light, from which one might conclude that we actually have a huge gap in this system, that it is somehow disorderly, and yet there is a charge that somewhere in the background there is a waste of taxpayers' money, and that I find it highly unfair. [[I wasn't talking about taxpayers' money.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, with a precise reference to the fact that our regulations are not included in the list of entities that are on it, and the sectors of key payment institutions and clearing houses, I would like to explain that this results, among others. the specific features of this legislation, which is the implementation of the NIS Directive. The NIS itself also includes payment and clearing institutions, as well as telecom operators, as well as trust service providers, because different sectors of the sector are regulated by other EU directives. In this sense, in order to properly order the legal system, not to lead to duplication or overlap or problems in interpretation of both EU legislators and thus in Poland, they took into account that these institutions are governed by different orders resulting from different directives. As far as payment institutions are concerned, there is a whole set of rules on risk management and security management, including cybersecurity, which result directly from the PSD2. And it's not. only and only the opinion of the Ministry of Digitalization, otherwise it could be said that it was some will imposed by the Ministry of Digitalization. I would also like to say that issues relating to particular sectors of the economy have been consulted with the competent authorities, i.e. those authorities which are to control these sectors later. In the case of the financial sector, it is the Commission for Financial Supervision. And both the Commission for Financial Supervision as well as the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Poland as related institutions, all of these institutions have accepted this form of annex, such as not another list of entities. So that it was a conscious decision, which does not cause a breach at all, but actually causes us to have an orderly legal system resulting from the fact that there are simply two directives in parallel. As for Mr Carrot's question on financial resources, I would like to reassure him that, as regards the measures for implementing the national cybersecurity system, they are guaranteed for this year, and for the years to come, as we know, they are now included in the OSR. Budget planning is currently underway for the coming years and we can count on the OSR to be the basis for applying for additional resources, including the possibility of obtaining an individual grant for NASK. This secures this minimum dimension. Of course, it is clear that the more money there would be, the better it is, but we are necessarily moving in some budgetary reality, which we are suddenly not changing, and we are dealing with in such a way that IT projects, which often have such a research component in themselves, innovative, are financed by the National Centre for Research and Development. At this point I can say that we have projects in progress or already completed, for which we received funding of about PLN 40 million. And it seems that this way of financing, when we have to present each project for opinion and apply for these measures, also affects more discipline in spending money. And thanks to good cooperation with the NCBiR, we are also able to finance the cybersecurity system in this way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u137	Thank you very much, thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law on the national cybersecurity system returns from work in the subcommittee in principle without amendments. The national security system to be set up will prevent, detect and minimise the consequences of incidents affecting the information security of the country. During the Commission's Seym session: Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and National Defence, only editorial amendments were adopted to the government draft law on the national cybersecurity system. The Ministry of Digitalization is responsible for the project. The proposed provisions implement the Directive of the European Parliament. On behalf of the Poselski Club I am now proposing two amendments to this draft law: that the role of Cybersecurity representative should be played by the Minister of Digitalisation and that the deadline for preparing the cybersecurity strategy should be 31.12.2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the national cybersecurity system following the work on this project in committee. The contested law is very important from the point of view of cybersecurity. I would like to remind you that its objective is to implement Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems within the Union, to create a national cybersecurity system, to define the scope and the way in which it operates, and to create appropriate instruments for the supervision and control of the application of the law. Raising the level of national cybersecurity is an important challenge and it is important that the solutions proposed in this area by the State are both sufficiently effective and not too interfering with the activities of economic operators. It is important that, before this project was addressed to the Sejm, the solutions contained in it were subject to extensive public consultation. I am also pleased that the discussion that took place during committee and subcommittee meetings was very detailed and comprehensive. Many issues have been clarified, many solutions have been changed as a result of the debate and the substantive arguments of the actors involved. I am convinced that the regulations contained in the project are needed. Action is needed to ensure greater protection in the network and to address threats from cyberspace. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u140	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill... to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We're coming... Sorry about the mistake. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on National Defence to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products (prints No. 2547 and 2629). I would very much like to ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products, print No 2547. On 18 May 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The amendment of the Act aims at identifying one entity, the National Agricultural Support Centre, as appropriate in matters relating to the submission by milk collectors of monthly information on the quantities of milk delivered to them each month. The Act did not raise much controversy at the committee meeting, it did not require additional appropriations to be provided for the NKR. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 13 June 2018, requests the adoption of Law No 2547 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u142	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products contained in print No 2547. The amendment of the Law of 20 April 2004 on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products aims at identifying one entity - the National Agricultural Support Centre, as appropriate in matters relating to the submission by milk collectors of monthly information on the quantity of milk delivered to them each month. Currently, these matters, with the exception of penalties imposed by the Agency for the restructuring and modernisation of agriculture for failure to provide this information, are being dealt with by the NOWR. The draft provides that the fines to be imposed on milk collectors for failure to provide information to the NOWR on the cessation of their milk purchasing activities, currently imposed by the ARIMR, shall be imposed by the relevant NOWR units. The draft law in question also takes into account the provisions of the Act of 10 February 2017. The provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre on the basis of which the NOWR carries out public intervention tasks as delegated tasks by the ARiMR, according to which ARiMR develops all documentation related to this scope. In addition, the draft law clarifies the local jurisdiction of the authorities authorised to carry out checks on producer organisations and their associations, interbranch organisations and milk collectors. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of the draft law, the transitional provisions regulate the issues arising from the designation of a new body in matters relating to the imposition of such fines. It was pointed out that it was initiated before the date of entry into force of the contested law and not completed by final decision of the proceedings on fines for failure to provide the information referred to in Article. 2a The laws on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products, carried out by the President of the ARiMR and the Regional Branch Director of the ARiMR, shall, as from the date of entry into force of the Act under consideration today, carry out, in accordance with their jurisdiction, the Director-General of KOWR and the Director-General of the KOWR Field Branch. The other amendments are of a more precise or technical nature. The obligation on NEBR to impose fines for the failure of milk collectors to provide monthly information on the quantity of milk bought in does not require the guarantee of additional staffing in NEBR. The current provisions provide that the NKER shall carry out checks on milk collectors for the transfer of the abovementioned. information. The imposition of penalties shall be the consequence of the checks being carried out. In addition, it should be stressed that the number of decisions concerning the imposition of fines for this purpose by the Agricultural Market Agency, which was authorised to monitor and impose fines in this respect before 1 September 2017, was negligible. The proposed changes will result, among others. the abolition of the rules on the division of competences between NKER and ARiMR in respect of monthly milk collectors' information on the quantity of milk bought into NKR, i.e. ensuring that the fines for failure to provide monthly information on concentrated milk are met by the NOWR, which collects that information on the basis of the rules in force, carries out checks on milk collectors to that extent and is authorised to forward that information to the European Commission. As regards the imposition of fines by the NEBR on milk collectors for failure to provide information to the Director-General of NEBR on the cessation of their milk purchasing activities, this will ensure that penalties are imposed on milk collectors by one operator. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Kucharski, Civic Platform. There isn't. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. The draft proposes abolishing the division of competences between the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in relation to the provision by milk collectors of monthly information on the volume of concentrated milk, as well as the level of penalties for failure to provide information currently imposed by the directors of the regional branches of the agencies. According to the project, both information and penalties for failure to provide information will fall under the responsibility of the National Agricultural Support Centre. The solution seems so obvious that it is difficult to understand why it is not functioning today. Often, the simplest solutions seem to be the most difficult to implement. Perhaps, however, the fault is due to the lack of consistency and errors made at the stage of drafting the act on the formation of KOWR. This is another example of the fact that the law cannot be constituted in a hurry, without time for reflection and analysis of individual rules, because the negative consequences of the mess are borne by farmers, entrepreneurs, officials. The present situation in the Polish dairy industry is worth paying attention to during this bill. According to the National Agricultural Support Centre, the Polish dairy industry recorded record high export revenues for dairy products in 2017. Exports of dairy products in value terms rose to EUR 2.1 billion, by close to 32% higher than in 2016 and 3.4 times higher than after Poland's accession to the European Union. Unfortunately, these optimistic results are not able to cover the real feelings that milk producers have and the facts that the analysis allows us to see negative signals for the future. The Russian Minister for Agriculture recently assured that in 2018. Russia will produce as much as 700,000. t milk more than in 2017, thanks to government support for milk producers. A few weeks ago, during talks at the Russian-Chinese meeting in Moscow, both countries agreed to strengthen their cooperation in the development of the dairy industry, among others. by providing a framework and technological and legal support for trade in dairy products in both countries. The production of milk in addition to Russia has also increased New Zealand and the United States. At the same time, the milk market in Europe is saturated. The demand for dairy products on the Chinese market has also decreased. We have no impact on external markets, on the consumption of milk and milk products in other countries, but we have the opportunity to influence our Polish market and the choices of Polish consumers. It is primarily about promoting the nutritional values of milk and milk products, raising consumer awareness and shaping food habits. Such education is most effective for children and young people, so we should definitely expand rather than limit school-oriented programmes such as the glass of milk. In addition, it is worth paying attention to consumers to dairy products from organic farms or those produced without GMO feed in animal nutrition. Production of this type is gaining increasing popularity and has an interest among Polish consumers. This is a global trend. The great potential of our country in producing and promoting organic milk should be exploited by talking about feed without GMOs. Our aim should be to change the black PR of milk precisely by highlighting the ecologicality of products, natural ways of feeding animals, purity of Polish environment. At this point I would like to remind the High House that as early as October 2016, the Kukiz Club submitted a parliamentary bill on the introduction of GMO-free food labelling, this is print No 1356. Such regulations exist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in many countries of the European Union and Poles deserve reliable information and farmers deserve to create a new, profitable branch. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposed rules are designed to regulate the division of competences covering monthly information provided by milk collectors on the quantity of concentrated milk between the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. In accordance with the Act of 10 February 2017 on the National Agricultural Support Centre, which entered into force on 1 September 2017, the KOWR took over the tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency. Since then, milk collectors shall communicate monthly information on the quantity of milk bought into KOWR. However, so far, the authority authorised to impose fines for failure to provide monthly information by milk collectors has been the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This authorisation will now also be taken over by the KOWR and this is a logical change because it is the KOWR who is required to control the milk collectors in order to comply with the obligation to provide information in a given month. Documentation on the extent of buying-in of milk will therefore be collected in one place. In addition, the National Agricultural Support Centre is obliged to provide the European Commission with aggregated information on the quantity of milk bought up in a given month. The European Commission's assessment shows that the number of dairy cows will decrease by 0.4% in 2018 while their milk yield will rise by 1.7%. As a result, EU milk production in 2018 could be by 1.2% higher than estimated for 2017 A further amendment concerns the finding that the competent authority for drawing up the application forms for the authorisation of production facilities, cold stores and warehouses is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as it is the ARIMR that is developing all documentation on public intervention under the KOWR Act of 10 February 2017. No comments were submitted in the context of the public consultation on the draft law. The introduction of this law will not have any financial implications for the public finance sector. The proposed provisions have a sequencing role and could have been introduced on the occasion of the KOWR Act, but, as I pointed out at that time, the process of setting up and setting up the National Agricultural Support Centre was in a great hurry, so that shortcomings, those and many others, could not be avoided. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u148	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats really wonders what the purpose of this project was in the Sejm, because it in no way in its own way will improve the situation on the milk market in any way. There is no way to improve the relationship between cooperatives or consumers of dairy products and farmers, there is no way that promotional measures will be strengthened to increase exports, and there is no question that the situation will generally improve. The main reason for presenting this project - this was already said by the previous speakers - is the mess that was created during the creation of the National Agricultural Support Centre, this super-agency, which was to be very close to farmers, which was to take over the tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, to gradually improve the situation in rural areas, even to react in crisis situations. None of this positive stuff is there, it's just fixing the mistakes you made when you presented this project. What's really on this project? Well, the two words that most often appear and scroll in records are checks and penalties. There's talk of control and control, punishment and punishment. This is the essential part of this project. I am not saying that the situation on the milk market, the organisation of this market does not require control and does not require punishing those who behave dishonestly, especially with regard to farmers, but we know precisely, we know such cases that often the ultimate beneficiary of these penalties is not the one who buys from the farmer, but the farmer himself directly. If we are already on these penalties and checks, it would be worth paying attention to another area of activity, perhaps not to this agency or to those agencies we are talking about today, but to other inspections which are subject to the Minister, i.e. to the new agricultural minister. You might ask, and that is what farmers are asking today, what about the control of products entering the customs territory of the European Union, including entering Poland. How many checks are carried out, how many penalties are imposed on importers for products that do not meet the formal, legal, health, food safety requirements? I am thinking, for example, of imports - this matter is well known to the Minister - raspberries from Ukraine, which have only increased by close to 50% over the last year, and exactly 45%. Poland is a key country, which is the beneficiary of this import of raspberries from Ukraine - mainly processed but also dessert. And here I am formally asking the question: Where are the authorities responsible for state security, food safety, consumer safety and even wider: for economic security? After all, this import causes, and the situation confirms, a catastrophic collapse of prices on the market. One might ask what is the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture and its services in this respect. Because if we look at another aspect of the recently amended law today - as of 1 January, new regulations have entered into force concerning the employment of foreigners in agriculture - this is where the element of control and punishment is gradually implemented. Imagine that the High House will know that today over the fields of tired growers who break raspberries, break strawberries, break currants in a moment, circle drones of various services and inspections that check, taking as the basis of the parcel, how many workers work, and then control the legality of employment. In this respect, the State is indeed effective, but in this respect, in order to ensure good conditions for employment, the State has not proved to be effective. So it is difficult to find in this law more than fixing the mistakes you have made, I am talking about PiS, at the moment when you presented the law on reform of the agency, because we know that there was no improvement, no positive effect for Polish farmers. Incidentally, one might also ask, what about one of the fundamental slogans that emerged during the election campaign period, whether to give or cancel the excess milk quotas penalties for those on which they were imposed in the previous perspective. Because today, the only form of aid for these farmers is the form of credit which is almost commercial, very difficult to obtain and, above all, necessary to repay. It's not a redemption, it's a loan - money needs to be brought, as it's popularly said, in the teeth to the bank. But even if for this reason, in order not to complicate the situation that you have created even more complicated, our club will not vote against this law, it will not vote against it, while being aware that it does not really regulate anything positively, it only corrects the mistakes made previously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u150	Thank you very much. Two people signed up for the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question. [[One and a half.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about the situation of breeders in relation to the drought in Poland. According to data from the Institute of Fertilization and Soil Science, drought was recorded in more than 92% of all municipalities in Poland and at close to 65% the arable land area. Especially affected are the cultivation of spring cereals and winter cereals, as well as shrubs and fruit trees, strawberries and rape. This year's crop yields will be lower due to water scarcity. Not only farmers growing cereals and vegetables or fruit plants will have problems, but also milk producers can be affected. Their costs will increase due to the lower availability of green fodder and at the same time milk prices on the world market do not increase. This Act is a purely technical act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] regulating certain issues and clarifying competences. However, I wanted to address the situation on the feed market, the situation on milk producers. Is there a threat to the feed market during the drought? Has any analysis been carried out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u152	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law needs to be adopted because we are trying to regulate and facilitate the lives of farmers, i.e. we replace different competences, we exchange between the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and KOWR, the new institution, we complement this. You say very often that they are implementing their agricultural programme. In the agricultural programme, you wrote that there would be one large agency. I think this solution was right not to double officials, not to double directors, but to create one efficient, large agency. I wanted to ask if there were plans and ideas to create one large agricultural agency so that the farmer wouldn't have to wonder where and what powers to look for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u155	Mrs Płępek spoke about a very important issue today, which affects Polish farmers, namely the issue of drought and possible aid. Hence the question to the Minister: What aid will farmers be able to rely on in those areas where drought has occurred? A occurred, according to estimates, in 90% municipalities in Poland. Will it be aid up to 1 ha or to 1 t of lost yield? What are the assumptions of the government and the Minister for Agriculture? We know that this is not yet precisely defined by any regulation. Secondly, who will be able to apply for such help? The members of the committee who have now started working in the field ask whether they should estimate all the land, all the crops or not, because the rumor is that it is only about classes V and VI that are affected by drought. Rumor has it that corn and other plants have been excluded from estimation as supposedly those that have not been subjected to the negative effects of drought. A few information, Minister, on the mitigation of drought and aid to Polish farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Jacek Bogucki will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions of your Members, thanking them first and foremost for supporting this law. I would wish every next government in Poland, every next agricultural minister, that only so many things should be changed and arranged when legislation is adopted. I remember how this happened in the years that were rightfully past, and I don't mean just the period of communism. Indeed, there are issues that concern the change of hundreds of regulations, because it is always a huge process to combine institutions and move tasks from one institution to another. Later, this requires some adjustments and changes that only occur in the functioning of the rules, but that does not mean that a bad law has been passed, because it is functioning, fulfilling its role. We're not infallible. Only one being in the world is infallible. We make our mistakes, if we even admit them, then we try to correct them, unlike our predecessors who were wrong. As far as the specific questions are concerned, Mrs Maliszewski asked, and Mr Maliszewski asked about the issue of drought. Indeed, in 2015 there was a huge drought disaster. The government then allocated several hundred million to help. Later, i.e. Last year, we had storms and spring frosts. We've set aside another couple hundred million. In 2015, the scale was much smaller than this year in terms of territorial coverage. Perhaps the effects of this drought will be assessed only in time, because now it is raining, so some of the losses will be made up. As I remember, in 2015, this drought lasted longer, so the effects will be assessed only after each field has been estimated, but the territorial scope of the disaster, because that is what we need to call it, is according to specialists the largest in decades. There was no such drought with such territorial scope. For a few dozen years. Other atmospheric phenomena are generally localised. It is therefore easier to assess the need to grant aid and to mobilise state reserves for granting it. In this case, of course, the most important is the estimation of losses. I would have such an appeal, also to your Members, who are farmers at the same time. Each of us farmers is a member of the farmhouse. I would suggest that you volunteer for the evaluation committee to help these assessment committees, because you need a lot of them. One committee in the municipality won't solve the problem. The first thing to do is to estimate the losses on those fields that are already in need of harvesting. It's about the rape, the winter barley. Further crops enter the harvest period, and once the losses have been collected, it is no longer possible to assess them. It is simply that this estimation should be carried out in a reasonable and as favorable manner as possible to farmers, and that already depends on local wojews, committees, committee members. You have the chance to take part in this on these holidays in order to help Polish farmers really and not just in words. With regard to the situation of breeders, we are aware that in the case of farms producing plants and animals at the same time, this situation causes a double loss on the farm, because on the one hand there is no harvest, on the other hand we need to buy fodder, which will unfortunately be more expensive if drought occurs in a large part of the country's territory. Even if it occurs locally, i.e. in the area of one voivodship or part of the voivodship, the feed in this area is much more expensive. Therefore, in the estimation protocol is paragraph 13, as I remember, where other costs incurred in the event of a weather event can be written, in this case drought. The costs of buying the feed which the farmer lost as a result of the drought may be entered there. In this way, the costs which he will have to bear shall be added to the losses incurred in the fields as a result of the assessment in order to complete the feed balance. This means that this magical limit of 30% of the farm's losses - invented by the Union and not by Poland - are those farms in which the drought disaster actually occurred, which covered a large part of the crop, will be able to freely cross and obtain aid outside de minimis aid. Of course, aid below 30% is also possible, but within the de minimis limit, which some farms may no longer have, because they may be used. We have repeatedly informed the members of the committee about this. To all municipalities, voivodships, agricultural advisory centres and agricultural chambers, we have sent information that this is an estimate for breeders, because this is mainly the case for them, but also for pig producers who have feed from their own crops, which can also be taken into account. Similarly, although we do not monitor droughts in meadows and in many other crops, there are several basic crops that we monitor, so the estimation guidelines, the estimation rules clearly state that this is how the losses in these crops are estimated if they occur and the drought is determined on the basis of the same condition, similar, similar plants. In the case of grass, the nearest growing method is the cultivation of cereals. So if there was a drought in the area for cereals, it can also be estimated on meadows, pastures, permanent grasslands. This applies to every crop, including the maize mentioned here. If there has been a loss in a given crop, the farmer sees that the corn does not grow as it should - because it often depends on very local conditions, it rained in one village, it did not rain in the other, we had this late spring and early summer, we have different soils, so the plants behave differently under the same conditions, even weather conditions, depending on local conditions - this estimation is also possible and should take place. So in these answers, the guidelines are very clear on these two issues. The third issue, on which committees often had doubts, if someone, for example. he had winter dreams or spring frosts, and now there has been a drought disaster, e.g. In fruit crops, this could happen, and it adds up to these losses. So the previous protocol is supplemented by another one, and the aid will depend on the sum of these losses. These losses can be summed up if no aid has yet been provided, there has not been such special aid. So when it comes to the system itself, I think it's all clear. [[The soil bonite class.]] The soil bonite class. As I said, if the drought occurred in a given area, the actual state is estimated, not based on the bonitative class. Bonitating classes were broadcast, I remember, in the 1940s, 50s, in many cases in the 1960s, and haven't changed since. It was different back then. Sometimes, who was closer to the then PSL, I do not know what the left party was called then, maybe even PPS, then PZPR, who was closer to these parties, it had these classes not necessarily evaluated according to reality. I'm saying that cases like this have happened because I know this from a story of my father, who was chief, neighbors, acquaintances, as it was in early communism. So this is not the basis. The basis is the facts. Of course, there must be drought in the area. But at the moment, drought is actually found in the vast majority of the country, so there are no formal obstacles to estimating. As far as the aid is concerned, as announced by Minister Ardanowski, the determination of the form of additional aid will be made after evaluation, in addition to the permanent instruments that already exist, because there are permanent instruments of aid, even in the form of disaster loans, redemptions, tax reliefs. There's an entire instrumentarium. Often for a large farm, disaster credit is a much better form of aid, it is more aid than, I don't know, 500, 450, as I remember, the previous coalition in 2015 proposed to a hectare. Often this is more aid than the rate per hectare. But of course, we have to estimate the losses first. Only then will additional forms of aid be established. On the other hand, if someone has an estimated loss, then of course they can already benefit from these constant forms, because actually they depend only on the estimation of the loss, the submission of the protocol and possible application, as I said, about loans, the relief in fees for KRUS or the lease from KOWR, etc. So there's a whole spectrum of help. As far as one agency is concerned, I didn't understand, sir, was it the connection between KOWR and Arimr? [[Yeah, with the agency.]] Was it about including an inspection? 'Cause it's like these two things sound. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] With regard to the merger of KOWR and ARimr, of course, the merger of inspections, the merger of agricultural services, the merger of agencies was in our programme and was carried out in the form of a merger and the creation of two institutions. One is responsible for EU funds and has a huge spectrum of activities: over 10,000, almost 11,000. employees. It is a huge institution, with a huge range of tasks, a huge budget and a huge obligation - yes it is called - to implement the entire Rural Development Programme, simply to spend EU money, as well as to pay direct payments to farmers each year. It's a really big job. The second institution, the National Agricultural Support Centre, has no less important task of supporting from national funds, national support for both land trafficking and all market activities, because such activities are also triggered interveningly: intervention in markets, all domestic and foreign promotion of Polish food, Mr. So it seemed to us, after a full, deep analysis, that these two institutions should function separately so that they are more efficient, easier to manage and thus more efficient. Of course, there is nothing lasting in life, only taxes and death are certain, as one Pole said, but one of the politicians, so as to what the future will be, perhaps if these institutions clot, someone will make that decision. There's two for today and they're both functioning. As far as the milk market is concerned, I would like every market to be in as good shape as at the moment, and in this case I would disagree with this alarming or pessimistic vision of the market. Really, milk exports are growing, dairy imports are falling, because we don't really import milk. The price situation in milk may not be what you would like, as farmers would like, as it was at this maximum point, when the price was approaching 2 PLN, but it was just a moment. However, given the average, I do not know, from 5, 10 or 20 years, it is a well-regulated, well-functioning market, therefore we do not interfere, we do not punish farmers in any way here. That's not true either. Someone was talking about punishing. The penalties do not apply to farmers in any way. As far as milk penalties are concerned, PSL could have handled this even when there was a quota system. You could have done that. so carry out, amend the law, so that, in accordance with EU law, the penalty shall be remitted. Following the abolition of the quota system [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is no legal basis in EU law, and there is no legal basis in national law. We gave the maximum aid possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u158	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act (Prints No. 2588 and 2627). I would very much like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, contained in print No. 2627, on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Social Security, print No. 2588. On 5 June 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the draft law in print No 2588 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 13 June 2018, asks: The High Sejm to adopt a draft law on printing No 2588. The aim of the project is to define and organise the rules for the placement of the Demographic Reserve Fund from the redemption of the assets referred to in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 4a of the Social Insurance Act, which is part of the Demographic Reserve Fund portfolio. According to the draft law, measures carried over from OFE are proposed to remove the evidentiary separation of assets referred to in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 4a of the Social Insurance Act, repeal of the provisions - Art. 59 (1) (a) 1 point 3 of the Social Insurance Act - providing that the funds and revenues derived from the assets referred to in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 4a of the above Act may be used only for the provision of the pension fund, the introduction of the principle that the funds deriving from the redemption of those assets and the revenue derived from them would increase the assets of the Demographic Reserve Fund and would be classified and managed under the other assets of the Demographic Reserve Fund. As regards the funds deriving from the disposal in the context of privatisation of shares and shares belonging to the Treasury, it is proposed to repeal the provision of the Article. 63. 3 restricting the instruments in which the measures referred to in Article may be placed. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2 of the Social Security Act. It is proposed to abolish the investment restrictions on the funds deriving from the disposal in the framework of the privatisation of shares and shares belonging to the State Treasury which have been transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund and to enable these funds to be placed on a general basis. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a provision in the Social Insurance Act laying down the way the Social Insurance Institution collects fees for the obligation to collect and collect health insurance contributions from the National Health Fund to the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and to open pension funds. The undertaking shall collect the costs incurred as proposed in the form of a deduction from the payments made. It is proposed that the regulation should enter into force on 23 October 2018, with the exception of the provision of Article. Point 1 (5) which would have entered into force within 14 days of the date of publication. The deadline of 23 October would allow the Demographic Reserve Fund to allow funds received on 24 October 2018 from the redemption of IDS1018 bonds to be placed on new terms similar to those for the other Demographic Reserve Fund. On the other hand, the provision of the article. Point 1 (5) is merely a provision in the Social Security Act. The adoption of the proposed solutions will harmonise and simplify the rules for the location of the Demographic Reserve Fund. The bill will not require any costs on the part of the Social Insurance Institution and the Demographic Reserve Fund. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, without opposition and without amendment, adopted the draft law report in print 2627. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I ask the High House to adopt the report of the committee in Parliament's printing No 2627. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u160	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the social security system. The purpose of the draft law amending the Social Insurance Act is to lay down the rules for the placement of funds of the Demographic Reserve Fund resulting from the redemption of assets included in the fund portfolio referred to in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 4a of the Social Insurance Act, which according to the provisions of the Act are recorded. The draft law proposes the elimination of the registration separation in the Demographic Reserve Fund portfolio of funds resulting from the transfer of assets from OFE. The funds deriving from the redemption of these assets and the revenue generated from them would increase the assets of the Fund and would be classified and managed under such conditions as for other assets of the Fund. The draft also provides for the repeal of the Article. 63. 3 restricting the instruments in which measures may be placed. One of the objectives of the arrangements provided for in this Act is to enable the Demographic Reserve Fund to locate funds from the assets of the fund arising from the transfer of assets from the OFE on a similar basis to that of other funds of the Fund. The placement of funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund's assets resulting from the transfer of assets from open pension funds in accordance with uniform principles and equivalent limitations as for other assets of the Fund will ensure comparable security of these funds and the achievement of the Fund's objectives in subsequent years. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know that the purpose of the bill amending the Social Security Act is to lay down rules for the placement of the Demographic Reserve Fund from the redemption of assets included in the Demographic Reserve Fund portfolio, which according to the provisions of the Act are recorded. According to the Law of December 2013 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of rules for the payment of pensions from funds collected in open pension funds, there has been a transfer of the compulsory obligations of the State Treasury of part of pension rights insured from open pension funds, from OFE, to the Social Insurance Institution. In February 2014, part of the assets accumulated in open pension funds amounted to a total of more than 51%. settlement units recorded in the account of each member of the open pension fund as at 31 January 2014 to the Social Insurance Institution. At the same time, the value of the funds corresponding to the value of settlement units decommitted by OFE has been recorded on the sub-accounts of insured persons operated by the Social Insurance Institution. The composition of the portfolio of the Demographic Reserve Fund - i.e. balance sheet funds - is largely fiscal paper, about 74% which give an average annual yield of more than 3%. In comparison, interest rates for in-bank deposits up to one year are currently yielding profitability actually less than 1.5%. The annual fixed coupon on bonds is over 6%. In view of this relatively high amount of free funds obtained from the redemption of bonds and the market situation, i.e. low interest rates on the in-bank investment market and a reduced supply of Treasury securities issued by the Ministry of Finance, the Demographic Reserve Fund is interested in acquiring long-term securities with a State guarantee in order to achieve better results in the management of the funds entrusted than in the case of placing funds in bank deposits. We therefore understand the abolition of investment restrictions in the case of funds deriving from the disposal in the context of privatisation of shares and shares belonging to the State Treasury which have been transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Ensuring a greater variety of financial instruments in which the Demographic Reserve Fund can be placed can ensure greater efficiency and profitability of investments. And that's what we agree to. We believe that allowing investment opportunities to be greater can help to increase resources as much as possible. However, we do not agree with the elimination of the registration separation in the Demographic Reserve Fund portfolio of funds resulting from the transfer of assets from open pension funds. The funds deriving from the redemption of these assets and the revenue generated from them increasing the assets of the Demographic Reserve Fund should be further recorded. One of the objectives of the solutions provided for in the proposed law is therefore to enable the Demographic Reserve Fund to locate funds from assets deriving from the transfer of assets from the OFE on a similar basis to the rules for the placement of other funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund. And that's what we agree to. However, we believe that the funds derived from these assets should be recorded separately, as has been the case so far, should be isolated. People, Polish citizens should know what is going on, about the proverbial zloty, with funds derived from assets from open pension funds. For this reason, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u164	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this project we are dealing primarily with creative accounting. The project assumes, in general, changes in the management of assets, the elimination of the evidentiary separation of funds from the transfer of assets from the OFE, it is proposed to abolish the restriction of investment funds from the sale of assets and shares belonging to the Treasury and to ensure a greater variety of financial instruments. The demographic situation of Poland raises concerns and increases the risk of future pension failure. The increasing distribution of the government and the promotion of the principle that the state should give, contributes to a situation where in the public opinion it is better not to work and be dependent on the state than to work and be robbed by the State. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think moving money from one poop to another is not going to make that money more, and I don't think that's the way we should go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern. Mrs Wróblewska presented her speech in writing. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u167	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Social Security. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill proposed by the PiS is nothing more than support for institutions that will be able to buy debts that the PiS government will make. According to the amendment, the Demographic Reserve Fund will be able to invest in long-term government bonds. This means nothing but that in OFE and PPK PiS wants to increase the amount of domestic debt in their native hands even more. Ladies and gentlemen! The project was prepared by the family, work and social policy department. It proposes that the FRD be able to locate the funds obtained from the redemption of certain assets included in the National Road Fund bond fund portfolio on the same terms as the other assets. Currently, they can only be placed in bank deposits. As the government justifies, it is about achieving better results in the management of the funds entrusted. It's just that it's nothing but coddling ours - supposedly ours - with money. The Demographic Reserve Fund collects funds for the payment of pensions in cases where due to demographic change there is insufficient budgetary resources for this purpose. As of January 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European FRD manages assets of PLN 25 300 million - balance sheet funds - and PLN 11 700 million - off-balance sheet funds. Officially due to the high amount of free funds obtained from the redemption of the National Road Fund bonds and the market situation: low interest rates on the in-bank investment market, ca. 1,5% , and the reduced supply of Treasury securities issued by the Ministry of Finance, the FRD is interested in acquiring long-term securities with a state guarantee. Maybe so. However, the question remains: Doesn't PiS use a hypocritical solution that she once criticized? The question remains: Isn't this creative accounting? Finally, the key question is: Isn't it that you don't have money in the budget for 500+, let alone other social programs that were introduced by the Polish People's Party in the previous coalition, such as lawnmowers? Is that why you do not want to accept the project of the Polish People's Party: pension without tax, and you have given the pensioners the lowest benefit value for years? Ladies and gentlemen, many doubts. I'm hoping we can get answers to my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u168	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. If not, I'm closing the list. First question - Mr Szczerba. There isn't. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Demographic Reserve Fund was established in the course of the reform of the social security system in 1998. Its task was to prevent excessive differences in benefits due to successive post-war demographic booms. This task of the Fund could be fulfilled after a longer period of time, after the stabilisation of its financial resources. Unfortunately, in 2014, payments were made from this fund, despite the fact that there were no circumstances recognised for the purposes of the fund's operation. However, with acceptance of all the proposed tasks of the new law, I would like to ask the Minister: What are the consequences of that action, that is, how much better would the financial condition of the Demographic Reserve Fund be if these payments were not made from the Fund for the Rescue of the Budget Situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positions of the clubs regarding the proposed amendment of the Social Security Act. I think it's worth starting a little bit from the end, i.e. from the objectives of the Demographic Reserve Fund. If we reach the Social Security Act... This is a provision which, as Mrs Tomaszewska mentioned, has been in force from the very beginning in its original form, i.e. from 1 January 1999 The objective of the Demographic Reserve Fund is to raise funds to compensate for the shortfalls of the Social Insurance Fund, that is, the fund from which our pensions are financed directly due to demographic reasons. It is precisely these phenomena, which are mainly linked to demographic changes which cause a deterioration of relations between the generation of people paying social security contributions, i.e. people insured today and the generation of people receiving pension benefits. With regard to the origin of this draft law discussed today, it is related to the amendment of the law made under the Act of 6 December 2013 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the definition of the rules for the payment of pensions from funds collected in open pension funds. Let me remind you that one of the basic principles of this law was the remission of 51.5% assets collected in open pension funds, saving the value of those assets on sub-accounts in the Social Insurance Institution and transferring, you can say, securities by OFE to the Social Insurance Institution. The problem is that some of the securities transferred to the Social Insurance Institution had a fairly distant maturity - it was not possible within such a time limit for most securities, i.e. In February 2014, the redemption of those securities only had to be postponed to maturity. The maturity of the bonds issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to the National Road Fund was fixed at 24 October 2018. Hence the initiative discussed today to amend the Social Security Act. I think the numbers best represent the essence of the problem. As already discussed in the course of the discussion, the Demographic Reserve Fund today manages assets worth over PLN 25 billion. This is the amount that relates solely to balance sheet appropriations. Part of the funds managed by the Demographic Reserve Fund or under its responsibility remain outside the balance sheet. This is the value of PLN 11 700 million. This off-balance sheet part of the funds managed by the Social Insurance Institution and belonging to the Demographic Reserve Fund portfolio concerns this amendment. As regards the results of the investment activity of the Social Insurance Institution with regard to the funds collected in the Demographic Reserve Fund, this is a security-oriented policy. It can be said that this is a restriction on the freedom to place funds in those securities which are at the highest risk, primarily in shares. Today, in the investment portfolio of the Demographic Reserve Fund, about 74% are tax papers, these are safe tax papers. Their average annual profitability is 3,15% . If we compare this with the return on investments in interbank deposits - which today give a return rate of around 1,5% - that we have, you can say, the essence of the problem. 24 October 2018 is the date of redemption of the bonds I mentioned, i.e. the National Road Fund bonds. The nominal value of these bonds is 8 818 661 thousand. zł. If it were not for the law or the draft law discussed today, these measures could only be placed on bank deposits, i.e. they could achieve a rate of return on investment, I think, comparable to the rate of return that we are currently dealing with, i.e. at around 1.5%. Just like you. you mentioned during the discussion, the annual coupon of the National Road Fund bonds, i.e. the level of interest per year, a figure of 6,25%, so it is an advantage incomparably greater than that which the Social Insurance Institution would have obtained if these funds had been placed on the bank's seat. This project envisages the abolition of the registration separation of measures. It therefore assumes that the funds deriving from the redemption of the National Road Fund bonds will be recorded and placed under the same conditions as the other funds managed by the Social Insurance Institution. So we want to achieve this effect that was mentioned here during the discussion, i.e. effect in the form of readability, clarity, full information on these results of investment activities and the level of capital or the value of funds managed by the Social Insurance Institution, owned or held by the Demographic Reserve Fund. As regards Mrs Tomaszewska's question, what was the investment policy of the Demographic Reserve Fund in previous years, as I mentioned, the starting point is what is now in the Demographic Reserve Fund, which is intended to compensate for the social insurance fund's demographic deficiencies. Let me repeat again: this is the amount of PLN 25 368 million in terms of the funds that are in the balance sheet of the Demographic Reserve Fund and PLN 11 700 million in terms of funds that are separately recorded. In total, we can say that this is the amount of PLN 37 billion. This is the state of the Demographic Reserve Fund as at 18 January 2018. If we go back to history, back to the previous years, you could say it wasn't that good. If we look at the expenses of the Demographic Reserve Fund from 2010 onwards, it can be said that these amounts were from PLN 2.5 billion - in 2014 such a envelope was allocated to supplement the pension fund deficit resulting from demographic reasons - up to PLN 7.5 billion - such a fund pool of the Demographic Reserve Fund was allocated, supported the Social Insurance Fund in the pension part in 2010. Neither in 2015 nor in 2016, in 2017, nor in the 2018 budget, was it intended to use or make use of the Demographic Reserve Fund for the provision of the pension fund, the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: To keep this bill separate...]] I have the impression that I have answered this question, Commissioner. I mean... [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Go...]] But what would be the purpose of this? [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Readiness...]] It is this readability that we gain by the fact that these funds will be recorded together, as well as invested together with this pool of 25 billion PLN. So when it comes to this goal, which is readability, transparency, the obligation to inform, to provide information about results... [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: To be readable...]] ...investment activities, these measures are registered on the sub-accounts of each individual insured person. And this is, you can say, a reflection of the pension obligation that the Social Insurance Institution has on this envelope. So in this sense, these measures, you can say, from the point of view of each insured person, are secured. On the other hand, with regard to this capital aspect, i.e. the investment of the Demographic Reserve Fund, these rates of return on investment, this regulation, which is in force today, is a regulation which limits the freedom to invest or place funds in different securities, limits the possibility of being placed in shares to 30% - that is the maximum portfolio of shares in the part in which these funds can be invested. And then there's the story. We are dealing, you can say, with good investment results. The Social Insurance Institution compares with other institutions that manage measures with similar, you can say, configurations. Thus, the Social Insurance Institution is in the first half of the ranking of financial institutions that manage investment funds with a similar profile. I think that's an explanation enough. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: No, that is not the point. Okay, later.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u172	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the social security system contained in print No. 2588. The purpose of the draft law is to lay down rules for the placement of funds of the Demographic Reserve Fund arising from the redemption of assets included in the portfolio of the FRD referred to in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 4a of the Act of 13 October 1998 on the social security system, which according to the provisions of the Act are recorded. I will admit that at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee at which the reading of this project took place, I had great doubts about the purity of the intentions of the PiS. The ruling party got us used to watching a show about a constant theme - a jump on power and a jump on money. This practice has sensitive the opposition to several times checking projects submitted by the PiS and finding out - even in seemingly good assumptions - bad intentions. It was the same here. The bill concerns a change in the way money is placed in the FRD. It is therefore worth recalling the idea of the fund itself - it is intended to support the payment of pensions in two cases: firstly, if there are minor problems with the balancing of the budget of the FUS each year, in situations where a larger year is retired and fewer people are employed in a given accounting year; secondly, in the long term, due to the inevitable ageing of the population and the increase in the number of pensioners per worker. Yes, the smart management of funds is based on the wise multiplication of funds. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with defrosting the funds recorded and changing the way they are located - because they need to be placed only in bank deposits for placement into instruments today unacceptable as referred to in Article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Second point of the Law on s.u.s., i.e. in securities issued by municipalities, municipalities and capital city Warsaw, debt securities guaranteed by the Treasury, shares and bonds dematerialised in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 29 July 2005 on Trading in Financial Instruments and bonds issued by public companies within the meaning of the Act of 29 July 2005 on Public Offering and Conditions Governing the Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. Democracy forces double caution and responsibility in the use of tools shaping the future of Poles. This is particularly important in terms of social security and budgetary guarantees ensuring liquidity so-called. pension measures. That is why it is so important that the funds collected in the Demographic Reserve Fund are, first, well secured, second, safely invested. We hope that this project does not have a second bottom and that, in time, moving well-protected FRD funds in their intention to multiply them through investments will not prove to be an attempt to freeze the cash register in order to improve the image of the PiS - high standing on accounts is always an argument for a well-managed financial policy - as well as that the PiS will not want to use the money allocated to our pensions to finance its next populist projects. If it is true that the intentions of the PiS are dictated by the desire for greater protection of the FRD, it may be worth returning to a modern project, which PiS was against 2 years ago, namely a print project No 436 introducing an annual limit on the use of FRD funds in the procedure of issuing regulations of the Council of Ministers at the level of 10%. the funds of the FRD set out in its plan for the year in question. Such a principle would prevent excessive loss of FRD resources for current purposes and ensure adequate accumulation of funds on payments in the longer term in the event of demographic problems. Maybe the ruling party will want to bend over to this project again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Social Security System. The aim of the project is to change the location of funds deriving from the buy-out of assets recorded under the Demographic Reserve Fund. The revised amendment proposes the abolition of existing restrictions and increased investment opportunities for FRD funds. In addition, provision is made for the redemption of certain assets to increase the assets of the FRD and to be classified and managed in the same way. Currently, the FRD can only place them in bank deposits. The objective of the Demographic Reserve Fund is to raise funds for the payment of pensions in the event of a lack of budgetary resources due to demographic change. Unfortunately, our demographic situation is clear. We are an ageing society, the average length of our lives extends and the childhood in Poland is below the level of generation replacement. From year to year, people receiving pension benefits will arrive and new measures are needed to support the functioning pension system. Given the positive investment history of the fund, the high liquidity of its assets and the fact that its investment results are at the forefront of market funds with a similar investment portfolio, I consider the solution proposed in the revision to be correct. I share the opinion that this is a safe and appropriate solution. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u175	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 7 and 8 of the agenda: 7. Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the urgent draft law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws (Prints No 2661 and 2676). 8. Report from the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the urgent draft law amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and certain other laws (Prints No 2662 and 2677). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present the Commission's reports in print 2676 and 2677.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u176	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I present the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry: on the government draft law amending the Law on Waste from Printing No.2661 and on the Government bill amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and some other laws from Print No.2662. High Izbo! In recent months, Poles have been concerned about media reports of burning waste dumps, cases of waste dumps, environmental pollution. It is understandable that these messages are of obvious concern. Everyone wants to live safely, in a clean environment that doesn't pose health risks. The government's reaction was quick and energetic. Two draft laws contained in prints 2661 and 2662 entered the Sejm on 22 June, which, after their adoption by the High Chamber, should end this period of the Polish State's inability to ensure proper waste management. These two complementary projects should once and for all put an end to the unwritten principle: the paper will withstand everything it seems to govern in waste management. The first reading of these prints took place on 27 June this year. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, following detailed work on the projects on 27, 28 June and 2 July, presents the reports in print Nos 2676 and 2677. First of all, the first of these prints. High Izbo! The contested law, the draft of which is contained in print 2661, will enable citizens to deal with the problem of waste dumping. The most important solution, I think, is the introduction in the added article. 48a the obligation to have claims secured for an operator operating in the field of waste management. The security will be used if necessary to cover the costs of replacement execution in enforcement proceedings incurred for the disposal and management of abandoned waste. Its height depends on the size of its operations and on the type of waste. It should be stressed that the need for safeguards is imposed by directives on the international movement of waste, on the management of used equipment and on the management of waste from the mining industry. The proposed provision contained in amendment 5 of Article. 1, ordering ownership or use of perpetual land on which waste management will be carried out, is intended to prevent waste dumping and fraudulent action by means of a method: a pole. However, it has had many controversy and difficulties in interpretation, it has been the subject of a lively discussion at a committee meeting and it will certainly be clarified by an appropriate amendment. High Izbo! The period of authorised storage of waste shall be reduced from three years to one year and the need to indicate in the administrative decision the permissible weight of simultaneously stored waste. Furthermore, there is an obligation to monitor the video location of waste storage, and this is, I think, a very important amendment, a very important modification of work. I don't think any honest businessman will be afraid of surveillance. In addition, an obligation to allow the facility to be used by the State Fire Department is imposed and specific fire protection requirements will be laid down in a regulation issued by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the environment. It shall be introduced for natural and legal persons who have been convicted by a final judgment of the court or who have withdrawn the decision on waste management, so-called. the wolf ticket, i.e. the refusal to issue a decision on waste management, and the grounds for granting that refusal are clarified in detail. For large installations or waste storage sites, more than 3 000. megagrams per year, the decision will be issued by the Marshal of the voivodship, for the others - the starost. I think that this has a profound justification in the current situation, when the old men were making their decisions in no uncertain terms, which was the source of very serious environmental pollution and protests. This situation demanded a cut. In the course of the committee's work, a great deal of controversy was raised by provisions concerning the submission of declarations and non-punishment certificates and statements of a slight withdrawal of the authorisation and other statements made by the waste holder. These provisions have been clarified. They do not have to submit these statements to the shareholders. The provisions specifying the location requirements for waste management projects have also been amended in such a way as to take into account decisions on building conditions and not just local spatial planning. In addition, Article 1 is inserted. 3, including amendments to the International Waste Shipment Act, a ban on imports of mixed municipal waste and waste resulting from the treatment of municipal waste and imports of waste for disposal in the processes defined as D1 to D15 in the Annex to the Waste Directive. High Izbo! Art. 18, last, provides that the Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions on video surveillance, which shall enter into force 6 months after the date of publication, and the provisions of the Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 concerning the adoption of a regulation on fire protection requirements, which enter 12 months after the date of publication. The whole of the draft contained in the committee's report after the 20 amendments were adopted by 10 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions and included in print No 2676. High Izbo! The government majority announced in the electoral programme that our state's inspection services would be strengthened. In particular, urgent action is required by the Environmental Protection Inspection, whose organisational structure established at the beginning of the 1990s is inefficient and completely inadequate to the significantly extended scope of its operation. I will remind you that when the inspection was created, there were about 120 procedures, now there are about 300, and therefore there was a radical extension of the scope of duties. This structure should be modified as regards the organisation and financing system. In order to improve the effectiveness of waste management control, the following solutions are proposed to strengthen and improve the work of the Environmental Protection Inspection: firstly, to enable national inspections initiated from the level of the Chief Environmental Inspector to be carried out by teams composed of inspectors from different voivodships, environmental inspectors. The true horror, which is often reported in the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, is the activity of groups of entrepreneurs associated with illegal practices carried out in several voivodships. In view of such waste juggling, the inspection is simply powerless. Such practices, which eliminate honest entrepreneurs from the market, can only address cross-checks. The legal and organisational basis for such control activities is provided by the provisions laid down in print draft No 2662. Secondly, it is proposed to strengthen staffing and organisational inspections through the possibility of carrying out checks on the 24-hour system, i.e. a three-shift approach to counteract infringements of environmental legislation and therefore to prevent offences or offences that pose a threat to human life or health or to the environment. This was often done on Christmas days, evenings or nights. It will now be possible to react immediately to the signs of violations. It is only immediately that the intervention checks carried out can put an end to these illegal practices that are frustrating our society. High Izbo! This, of course, requires an increase in employment and a strengthening of financial inspections, which will follow the adoption of detailed rules in this draft. Thirdly, the proposal provides for the possibility to carry out intervention checks without notification of their intention to carry them out 7 days in advance. The existing rules allowed entry without prejudice if there was a particular risk of life, health or the environment. On the other hand, because of the appeals made by companies to courts, which have usually waived the possibility of entering without prejudice, dishonest entrepreneurs have been able to break the rules for years. Examples of such impertinent mockery can be observed in the area of M.S. Warsaw. In addition to the intervention checks I am talking about, please, there are planned checks which are carried out with prejudice. There is an extension of the control powers of the Environmental Inspection inspectors when carrying out inspections to include legitimacy, interrogation, car retention, sampling, imposition of fines, use of unmanned aircraft and other competences, and to enable exploratory or operational activities to be carried out so as to obtain evidence of infringements for administrative proceedings. In the course of the inspection, the Regional Environmental Inspector will be able to issue a decision suspending the activity with immediate feasibility, so that companies, referring to the court against this decision, will not be able to delay its execution ad Kalendas Graecas, which unfortunately has so far been a permanent practice. Fourthly, the project provides for the assistance of other control or police authorities to be provided by the environmental inspectors and for cooperation with other control authorities to be extended, for example, to include educational activities in the use of the environment of other bodies and institutions. National Tax Administration, Road Transport Inspection, Border Guard, Police, Public Prosecutor's Office, judiciary, local authorities or entrepreneurs. Fifthly, the new rules introduce procedures for dealing with vehicles carrying illegal or incompatible waste. These provisions standard the rules for the transport of these vehicles to special parking lots, and also oblige the voivodships to update their waste management plans in terms of identifying places that meet the conditions for waste storage, and impose sanctions on the competent authorities, i.e. marshals and starosts, for not designating these sites. These changes finally allow enforcement of the rules on the detention of vehicles illegally transporting waste. Sixthly, the draft implements penalties for infringements of environmental regulations imposed on the basis of the Environmental Inspection Act, the Law on Forests, the Environmental Law, the Act on Vehicle Recycling, the Act on Environmental Impact Assessments, the Act on Batteries and Battery, the Act on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer, the Act on Wasted Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the Act on Access to Genetic Resources. High Izbo! The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019 with the exception of, first, the provision of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 concerning changes in employment relations of voivodship environmental inspection staff, which will enter into force on the date of publication. That means there's an obligation to appoint staff to move on to new tasks. Secondly, the exception to the rule as regards the date of entry into force is provisions laying down new tasks of the Environmental Protection Inspections which enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. And thirdly, the article. Point 11 (1) shall enter into force only on 1 January 2020. High Izbo! In the course of the committee's work, a number of legislative, linguistic, clarification, but also substantive amendments were introduced in the law. The entire report of the Environment Committee in print No 2677 was adopted by 10 votes with four abstentions. High Izbo! The National Chamber of Commerce estimates that the grey waste management zone covers 30% of 50% income disclosed. This is an undoubtedly insulting situation of common sense, since the considerable money circulating in this segment of the economy, instead of contributing to the improvement of the environment for citizens, go into the pockets of dishonest entrepreneurs. And not only do these dishonest people poison Poles, it still makes it harder for businesses that comply with the rules by distorting the conditions of fair competition. It's time to stop. Poles want to live in a clean environment. The draft laws contained in the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in print 2676 and 2677 can radically change the situation of waste management. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u177	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These two laws, on waste management and on the Environmental Protection Inspections, are laws that are designed to correct the difficult not to say the pathological moments, the situation in waste management. For many years we have heard from entrepreneurs who have been at meetings, either in the environmental committee or in the relevant sub-committee dealing with waste management, that the situation is bad, that a large proportion of the rules adopted several or even a dozen years ago have serious holes, which allows for criminal action, which allows the existence of a very large grey zone. This is why these entrepreneurs have long called for the strengthening of the Environmental Protection Inspections so that they can really control what businesses do in storage, storage or waste treatment. So far, the effectiveness of this inspection has not been very special. Unfortunately, many of the restrictions that my predecessor spoke of, even if this mandatory 7-day deadline for notification of control, caused that when inspectors arrived at the scene, traders who carried out unfairly their interests were already able to mask some of the irregularities. Hence the very serious strengthening of control capabilities, increasing the response rate of the Environmental Protection Inspections, undertaken almost from hour to hour. A very important element is the extension of the possibilities of operation also outside the working hours of normal offices. It could be said that the inspection by this law will become something of an environmental police that can react quickly also outside office hours, even at night, if necessary. The law also provides for much more financial resources, because the tasks imposed will, of course, force more people to be employed in inspections, and it will also be necessary to increase the wages of people working there, because responsibility for the tasks they will carry out will be much greater. It will also be necessary to cooperate with other services, inspections - and the law clearly assumes - so that there are no longer such situations as the inspector who comes to control the landfill is not even allowed in there and cannot gather evidence of the unfair business activity of the trader concerned. All these changes are supposed to lead to the fact that we will eventually avoid situations that have occurred in recent weeks, but which have happened unfortunately also in previous years, that large amounts of waste are abandoned - most often they were waste generated somewhere in Poland, but sometimes produced abroad and imported here illegally - or, as has been heard recently, that we have landfill fires. Without increased control, it will not be possible to eliminate it. But we also have additional tightenings on permits, obtaining consent to conduct waste management. We introduce in the Act amending the Waste Act and other laws elements that will force entrepreneurs to comply with environmental regulations. We predict, among others. the requirement not to punish such an entrepreneur, so that there is no situation that he has already violated the law several times, and yet through various legal threads, changes in the formula of his activity still function in the field of waste management and constantly repeats the same errors and the same dishonest acts. This is also to be served, among others. compulsory, continuous monitoring of waste disposal and treatment sites, carried out at least to gather evidence that the trader is operating in accordance with the rules or that he is not violating them. True, it will be expenses that will increase the cost of business, but they seem inevitable in view of values such as human life and health or the clean environment. We also clearly limit the possibility of setting up waste treatment facilities anywhere. It's been very different so far. Next to human homes, waste treatment plants appeared. We want to ensure that an entrepreneur in those places where there is an adequate spatial planning plan, or where he has obtained the conditions for the construction and development of the site for the construction of such an establishment, can continue his business. It is important to seriously consider whether it is also possible to rent notarially confirmed here, so as not to limit this activity in most areas in Poland, which unfortunately do not still have spatial planning plans. We should consider what we also discussed at the committee meeting on the possibility of importing parts of waste which could be treated as raw materials processed in our processing facilities. Hence we will try as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to support both these laws to [[♪ The bell ♪]] allow fair economic activity in the field of waste management and, at the same time, make several amendments in line with the demands of this environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u179	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! After 20 years of operation of the Environmental Protection Inspection, it is indeed time to reform it, to create an effective service to combat the challenges, the tasks of the service to protect the environment. We appreciate some aspects of this law, which actually makes checks more effective, without notice, at any time, it is important to equip this service with technical measures, in particular an increase in the number of people employed and an announcement to increase earnings in environmental inspections. On the other hand, this amendment has two cardinal disadvantages, i.e. The disadvantage was to submit 20 years ago in a two-stage manner to the Environmental Protection Inspection, both to the voivodships and to the Ministry of the Environment. This meant that the environmental inspection services did not have a sufficient budget line, did not have the financial resources to carry out the controls, were not effective, and, as always, if they were subject to local authorities, they could be influenced by the local lobby. Unfortunately, this bill doesn't change that. We had to go more radically and subdue all services, not only laboratories, but also the provincial environmental inspectors to the chief environmental inspector and remove them from the provinces. The second cardinal defect I was about to mention is to equip these services with operational and investigatory powers, including the possibility of filing an indictment. This is confusing actions, this is confusing control powers with powers that should belong to law enforcement authorities, and I believe that this solution is wrong and should not take place. I wanted to make appropriate adjustments to the hands of the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club is generally in favour of the work on sealing, upgrading the waste management system and we are happy to cooperate in this area, also this time making our proposals. However, our concern is that the solutions proposed in this law are linked to a fundamental error, they appear ineffective because they are not supported by a good diagnosis and do not go to the real place where pathologies are born, and even through their restrictiveness, especially in financial terms, especially with regard to honest entrepreneurs, rather than those who operate outside the legal sphere, can cause the gray zone to be enlarged. Experts, as well as the social side, say that these solutions will impact mainly on legitimate micro- and small entrepreneurs acting honestly on the Polish waste management market. This law also includes the puriozal and erroneous solutions from the point of view of the threat of investment paralysis resulting from these unthinkable and unknowable solutions. We are making appropriate amendments on this matter. Of course, our amendments concern, first and foremost, a solution which is intended to extend the introduction of a spatial planning requirement. If 70% of the country's territory does not have such plans, it will cause investment paralysis and extension of this to construction conditions will not solve anything when it comes to large linear investments, motorways, railway lines, which include. are conducted on the basis of the so-called. Specialist. The second point is a completely reckless, albeit well-intentioned amendment saying that property rights are mandatory in the area where waste management activities are carried out. It will lead to such a puriazum that, for example. The nuclear power plant will be able to be built in accordance with Polish law in the area to which you have a legal title, not necessarily property, and a small repair shop, where there are waste, will not be possible to run. The big threat is that only the State Treasury and possibly the local government will be able to operate in degraded areas, because they are usually the owners of such areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm making appropriate corrections to your marshal's hands, hoping to take them into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u183	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis draft laws amending the Waste Act and certain other laws and laws amending the Environmental Inspection Act and some other laws, prints No 2661 and 2662. The laws are described as urgent and really urgent in this case, which does not mean that we should adopt the law of bad, giving us the opportunity to circumvent it and continue to bring various waste into Poland or collect in Poland without control of this action and the certainty that it will not harm people. The amendment of the Environmental Inspection Act itself is important, the tools it receives are important, but without the employees involved and responsible, it is the law we are looking at that will be of little use, as many harmful environmental and human activities could already be prevented today if only the Environmental Inspection staff did not turn a blind eye to various irregularities and even crimes. How is it that one of the important investors brings garbage from the Czech Republic to Poland because it was forbidden to store it there? When planning the construction of a waste incineration plant, it is not able to justify the purpose of its construction because the waste stream, which could be extracted from the local environment, is not able simply to use the technological power of this incineration plant, so the waste must be imported. This example of at least malfunctioning of the same entity would not have been possible if there had been no response from officials, including the Environmental Protection Inspections and other institutions. How are they to react when individuals from the front pages arrive at the opening ceremony and thus legitimize the activity? However, in the interests of human health and the environment, Kukiz15 is in favour of the provisions proposed in the Environmental Inspection Act. The second problem with the laws on which we are dealing is that the law which the Sejm adopts should not hinder or prevent the economic activity carried out in accordance with law. Unfortunately, the Law on the amendment of the Waste Act generates such situations. There are three issues in general. First, the cessation of the activity of the waste holder by the Regional Environmental Inspector due to a double violation of the conditions of the waste collection or treatment permit. In this case, it is worrying that all infringements are treated equally, that the importance is not taken into account and that the decision of the Regional Environmental Inspector is mandatory. We in the amendment tabled at first reading propose the optional character of these powers of the Regional Environmental Inspector - that he may, and he does not have to make such a decision. The second question arises from the provision relating to the right to dispose of the area in which the waste management activities are carried out. The legislator had good intentions. He wanted to eliminate the situation of the fact that waste was often collected in a given area and then abandoned by an unfair entrepreneur. The condition of ownership or the right of perpetual use does not give certainty that the case described above will not take place. Finally, the question of the transport of hazardous waste, which is considered dangerous. The rules in this respect are irrational. They do not even take into account the specificities of certain waste industries. We therefore propose amendments. We hope that the Ministry will take these into account, as did the one we reported at first reading, and will also take into account the views and demands of honest entrepreneurs. Paradoxically, only representatives of these small entrepreneurs who were concerned that the rules introduced would make their activities difficult were present at committee meetings. Therefore, we hope that the Ministry of the Environment will also lean over their votes and that we as Kukiz will be able to vote without reservation in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u186	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Environment Committee, when discussing the draft Waste Act, print No.261, a government declaration was made concerning further modifications of the project at second reading. The process of this project is at a turning point, but maybe it is understandable, because there is a threat. This will change the operating conditions of the waste management industry for many years. Therefore, these amendments, which the government has announced, are absolutely necessary. Proposed amendments to the provisions of this amendment, such as, for example, video surveillance and a few others, of course, are a necessity and maybe we had to introduce them a long time ago. And I think it's certain or even a lot of delay. On the other hand, the aim of this project should not be to weaken the recycling industry in Poland. Rather, we should strengthen its development within the framework of the legal management of Polish waste. A complete misunderstanding is e.g. the addition of Article. 41b, which states that waste management consisting of the collection of hazardous waste, the recovery of waste by the completion of sites which are adversely transformed, the collection or treatment of municipal waste or waste resulting from the treatment of municipal waste is carried out exclusively in an area the owner or perpetual user of which is the owner of waste which manages waste. The Government Party has declared an amendment to this provision. Leaving it in this shape would eliminate from the market legally operating companies that lease premises where electro-waste is collected. It goes on for example. about batteries collected in shops. At the stage of government work, separate collection points were excluded from the rules. Smaller companies collecting and processing electro-waste which rent real estate for this purpose should also be excluded. Otherwise, we are threatening to liquidate the electro-waste industry in Poland. However, in connection with the European Union Directive of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment, our country has committed itself to increasing the collection and processing of electro-waste placed on the market from 50% to 65% in 3 years. It is therefore absolutely necessary to amend this provision. The establishment of a fire defence is an important aspect of this project, but it is not necessarily justified in the context of non-flammable raw materials. The project excludes only inert waste from this obligation, while securing claims concerning e.g. Iron, cement, scrap in millions of tons per year will be an unnecessary financial burden for legally operating companies. On the other hand, we are in favour of increasing penalties. The project imposes a penalty of 1 million for unlawful processing. Administrative penalties for unlawful collection or treatment of waste without the required authorisation will be imposed in the range of 10 000. up to 1 million, but the catalogue of administrative penalties contained in Article. 194 The Waste Act is so wide that, in the context of mandatory cessation of activities of the waste holder after the imposition of an administrative penalty, it may in many cases be inadequate to the extent of negligence. Many new, ill-thought-out rules in the project, which the representatives of the recycling industry have drawn the attention of the committee, may result in a reduction in the development of this industry, but also in other industries, such as automotive or window and door production. One amendment concerning the draft Act on Environmental Inspection shortens the period of vacathio legis of control and operational matters up to 14 days from the date of publication of the Act. According to the original project, this was to take place on 1 January 2019. The new police powers of inspectors themselves are considered to be too far-reaching access to the powers of security services. In conclusion, we make our support conditional on your support for the amendments previously tabled. And I have one more request for the Minister. Last time, at first reading, you called my speech a steak of slander and lies. I ask you to point out these lies and slanders, because I understand that information about the fact that there were laws in China that prohibited the import of 24 categories of waste, these are facts simply, and the fact that we are now a dumpster of Europe is also a fact. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] If not, I ask you to apologize for those words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're missing the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u187	Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u188	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present the position of the club on two government bill projects: on the amendment of the Waste Act and on the amendment of the Act on Environmental Protection Inspection. Today's civilization and its dynamic development are characterised by an increasing amount of waste associated with industrial production, as well as the actions of individual citizens in their daily consumption. For several years there has been a specific waste revolution in Poland. Experience so far in this area shows that not everything has been managed in terms of municipal waste management. The overarching objective of the proposed amendments is above all to address the problem of waste dumping in places not intended for this purpose. Although the overall direction of change is right, because we expect, as promised by the Minister, to present appropriate amendments, some elements of the amendment will contribute to a significant increase in the costs of many economic sectors, such as the construction, recycling, household appliances or non-ferrous metals industry. The changes presented can be a really big revolution for many entrepreneurs. There will be mandatory monitoring in waste management facilities, a period of 3 years until the year allowed for the storage of waste, after which the trader should recycle the waste and redirect the rest to the landfill. This is to discipline the actors so that they do not delay processing, waiting, for example. For a better economy. In our view, however, the Minister for the Environment should indicate a catalogue of waste for which this period could be extended to 3 years. In addition, companies will have to become owners of the areas in which they operate. We generally appreciate this record positively, although we expect some exemptions in this case, so as not to eliminate the current electro-waste collection system, fluorescent lamps, batteries. This would often exclude RTV and household stores in this legal formula. One of the main solutions proposed by the resort is the introduction of bail, financial guarantee, which will be paid by garbage companies. This mechanism is intended to protect local authorities from dumping waste. If this happens, the municipalities will have the means to dispose of and dispose of such waste. Transport will also be subject to major controls and environmental inspectors will be given much broader competence. The multiplicity and complexity of everyday life issues indicate the need to reform the Environmental Protection Inspections. It's a good thing you want to strengthen your inspection by broadening your powers, better equipment, labs, and taking care of people. You can't build an efficient and efficient state service without caring for people who serve in a responsible service. It is about creating an apolitical corps of government officials, professionals who are well paid and will not make extra money writing expertise for controlled companies. On the other hand, environmental legislation must be as clear as possible. We have more than enough over-interpretation of the rules applied by the Regional Environmental Directorates for Natura 2000 sites. It is also worth learning from this. An honest trader should obtain reliable information and assistance from an official representing the State. I believe that the introduction of the provisions of this law will give environmental inspections new, important importance, to the benefit of the environment and the safety of citizens. The aim should be to reduce the import of waste, as these are most often hazardous waste, with unknown composition and difficult to dispose of. Strengthening control and reducing this process should become one of the main objectives of the Environmental Protection Inspection. In conclusion, both laws are environmentally beneficial and we support the initiative to seal the waste management system, while according to the Minister for the Environment's declaration [[♪ The bell ♪]] we expect appropriate amendments to minimise the negative consequences and consequences for entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u189	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for the floor? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please don't exceed the time. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the construction industry, I wanted to draw attention to one important aspect. The draft amendment does not take into account the fact that waste is not only hazardous chemicals or waste, but also land obtained from excavations on one site and used for other construction works. The waste is also any soil extracted contaminated, which should be subjected to a purification process. Thus, the requirement which requires the implementation of a development plan in the area where the treatment or collection of waste is to be carried out may cause problems in the implementation of construction investments. The change may cause that the land acquired during excavations under construction cannot be used on other construction sites. This will be the case when investments are made in areas not covered by the local spatial planning plan. This may include infrastructure investments such as embankments under motorways, roads or railway tracks. I wanted to ask you to clarify these issues and whether these comments will be taken into account in the process of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u191	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, aren't you afraid that you are pouring out a baby with a bath in such a way that you are imposing such restrictive rules on shipments of waste, especially cross-border shipments, that there is a significant risk of non-compliance with Regulation 1013 of the European Community of 2006 and the Basel Convention? Isn't that how you admit that you don't believe yourselves, that you can control the permits issued by the Chief Environmental Inspector? I wanted to ask you another question. In the materials that were prepared for the government, there is an amount for the grey zone, which is estimated by the Chief Environmental Inspector at 7820 thousand. t non-system waste and 1640 million cost losses for the State budget. I have a question: How do you... I think we're gonna settle this with sealing, because I understand that this first amount should appear in the waste management system: volume, tonnage and the latter affects the state budget. And one more thing: Why do you not really propose sealing the waste stream in the form of e.g. joint and several liability [[♪ The bell ♪]] the manufacturer and transformer of waste and the creation of an actual waste base, which should have been operational two years ago, and at the moment it's just a fake? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u193	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The supervision of the transport of waste, especially hazardous waste, is important, but the legislator did not foresee the specifics of these so-called waste. waste. The point is, the hazardous waste is the fridge. For other reasons, other waste was not considered hazardous, e.g. used dryers. There are no obstacles for them to be transported together to the place of storage. Why don't you let it happen? On the other hand, it is very good that something is being done to make the situation better for the protection of the environment, that transport has improved at all, there are no outdoor cars, and there is nothing like it used to be, that when it was warm, unpleasant smell would spread through the streets as they were going to the garbage dump. So that's the plus that you're getting better and doing something. But about what I asked you before, I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to thank you, Minister, for these draft laws, so much awaited by Poles. It is regrettable that the rules governing waste management need to be clarified so much as to minimise the possibility of unfair action. The costs of enforcement procedures for illegal waste management are high, but public health is priceless. Between 2013 and 2017, more than 5 000 administrative bodies were established. proceedings. According to the information gathered, executions have not yet been initiated in many situations. Minister! Given the consequences, I have a question: Shouldn't these executions be returned absolutely? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask you about the specific situation that exists in one town. Namely, the collection, storage of waste by a natural person without authorisation and in a place not adapted to it on private grounds is ongoing. Many activities have been undertaken by the Environmental Protection Inspection and even by the prosecution, but have so far proved ineffective. Waste is still being collected to the despair of the inhabitants. I have a question: After the legislation has entered into force and the possibility for environmental inspectors to enter and control the landfills at all times and without prior notice, will this inspection be equipped with such tools as to ensure that the checks will be effective and that the measures taken as a result of these checks will bring the expected results and effects of the localities and residents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u199	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very good that these laws were created and that we are proceeding over them. It's a shame it's so late. As Kukiz, 15 years ago, we paid attention to the danger of burning landfills. But we have laws. In order to create such a landfill, a decision must be made on the construction conditions. However, there is part of the investment that is based on various types of specializations. Well, what about it? Shouldn't the possibility of such landfills be extended in such a way as to include landfills that arise during construction, I don't know, high voltage lines or all kinds of other, or for example. highways? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Generally, the provisions of this law in many points are beneficial, mainly from the point of view of me very important, i.e. social health, but also generally the safety of our citizens. We have shifts, and mostly we agree with them. Of course, some business issues need to be clarified. On the other hand, Minister, my question concerns the state of the case. Will the introduction of the law make the de novo waste disposal change now? We have a huge problem in Poland with illegal landfills or those which were supposed to be collected on the basis of a permit, but not in accordance with the content of the permit issued by local authorities. And the question is, what do you do with this huge amount of garbage that's been coming into our country lately? These are burning landfills, these are rotting landfills, which pose a direct threat to the health and life of Poles. That's what we have, for example. in the Olkuski district in the village of Klucze-Osada, which we have been struggling with for several nice years, and nobody really wants to help us. Does the Ministry provide for the allocation of funds for the correct disposal of waste that has already been incorrectly collected today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u203	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is this bill necessary? Absolutely. Is it urgent? It seems so. It's just a question of how this emergency procedure goes. The information provided shows that this law is underprecise, and I fear that it will divide the fate of most of the laws that the Law and Justice are introducing at such a rate, i.e. it will require very quickly amendments and amendments, unless the Law and Justice attempt to look at the amendments that have been tabled, and considers that opposition proposals are logical and correct this law. I call on the Minister to take this into account so that you do not have to rewrite the bill yourself in the near future. And questions for the Minister. Minister, it's been three years of your governments, and you haven't done anything about it, because when it comes to burning landfills, it's obviously been cumulation lately, but this phenomenon has been observed for many years. In 2017, the Council China refused to accept waste from Western Europe and it was known that this waste would go to Poland. Therefore, the question is: Will you take into account some of the opposition's amendments? And secondly, what have you been doing over the last three years to prevent and prevent air pollution in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u205	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! During today's discussion, most words fell on recycling. Magic word, bar raised high, magical 50% Still unattainable. And to make it even more fun, the European Commission raises the bar and states: the circular economy. Here I put a very specific question, a question which is partly a prescription for the so-called. Burning landfills, which avalanchely, miraculously, took over Poland. I asked this question to Norwegian specialists and they gave a simple answer. The whole secret is recycling, but not paper, but real. Have any of the Members heard of landfill fires in Norway, Sweden, Scandinavia? Why isn't it here? Because recycling is reality, not paper and fiction. That's what the problem is today. Today we are still talking about fiction, a certain game of words, a paper trade. It's all right on paper, and it doesn't really. This is a sad reality that is a challenge, and it is a challenge not only for the Minister, but also for the whole Sejm. We have a circular economy ahead of us. This is a challenge we have to face because today we are doomed to do so. I hope that this law will be a step towards a circular economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, it must be made clear that it is not true to say that a huge amount of waste has recently come from abroad, because if you compare data from last year and for example. 10 years ago, it can be seen that these imported waste is much less, and it is worth knowing that a large part of this waste is actually recyclable raw materials. And in comparison with Germany we bring many times, even 20 times, less than Germany. You asked me what we were doing earlier. It's a question to the Minister, or earlier laws, e.g. The one with the so-called. foils, where the vast majority of the legislation concerned the creation of a waste database to clarify what obligations they have in the waste treatment sector, were a sealing element of the system or not, or even the last law on which we dealt, about the so-called. by-product, seal this system or not. When the issue of increased powers for the Environmental Protection Inspections appeared several months ago, did the opposition protest very strongly against this type of action and change its mind only now? Another piece I was talking about. We notice the shortcomings of the first proposal, thus e.g. a proposal for an amendment that will enable waste management activities to be carried out in areas where the trader has a lease or use contract, which should remove the vast majority of these concerns here. And the last piece. It is worth again, Minister, to clarify whether every time we are talking about waste here in the courtroom, we are talking about waste. [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether or not by-products and whether, therefore, the penalties and charges which are said to apply in the case of by-products are in force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u209	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few general words first. I would like to address Mrs Ewa Lieder from Modern. Thank you very much for today's very substantive speech and constructive comments, while the first reading, unfortunately, looked completely different, but I will review the transcript. If I have used inappropriate words, I will apologize, but if the impression I had at the time is still my impression, then I can only express the joy that the attitude has changed very much... [[Nothing's changed.]] ...meaning what I'm very happy about. And in general today's discussion is already much better than the first reading discussion, which is very good for the adoption of this law. And I think that's our problem together. How common, I think there were a lot of statements here. It's just an example of a storage site under Olkus, yes, the Keys-Osada. Over the past few years, these wastes have been collected. I'll remind you who's been in charge for the last few years, a few years before, and he hasn't gone to that. We, of course, do not shy away from responsibility, but it is worth remembering that this is our common problem, very often created. Unfortunately, not in our governments, but we are not avoiding its resolution. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to address these specific questions that were raised in the course of the discussion. There have been reservations raised by Mr Sonik on the powers of control and on the possibility of bringing prosecutions, supporting prosecutions. There are inspections which have such powers, i.e. Labour inspection, health inspection, National Tax Administration. Hence, we recognise that this is nothing unusual for the Environmental Protection Inspection, and I think it will benefit us well, and certainly supporting the indictment or prosecution is much more convenient for inspections, for professionals than for example. for the police, which, of course, can bring in acts of prosecution, but sometimes there is no such expertise or evidence as a result of research. Mrs Lydia Gądek from the PO asked what was going on with regard to the current situation, which is what happened with the supply of waste. Of course, we will be very strict about the principle that the polluter is paying, that is to say, we will reach out to the resources of the entrepreneurs who have accumulated this waste. This is the first case. But we also realize that sometimes there are no more pollutants because they're gone. Therefore, it stays on the shoulders of local governments and here local governments, taking responsibility, issuing permits and staying with this problem. But we also understand that maybe in some cases local governments will not be able to solve this problem, and we do not avoid help, I stress, from helping in cooperation with local governments, but we certainly will not solve this problem, which we have not done ourselves. This is a very important statement. The point is that there should be no situation that, now, to the Minister of the Environment, there will be requests to finance the disposal of waste that someone else had previously collected. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz said that we are working too fast on this. In fact, the pace is high, you can't hide it. On the other hand, I think that there is enough time to deal with this and, at the same time, when it comes to time, given parliamentary holidays, if we did not impose such a pace, that would mean that we would have introduced these laws at the earliest in November, so six months would have been lost. Hence, the necessity of this pace is clearly evident. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski spoke about recycling, about a circular economy. Of course, this is a challenge and this is the first step: tidying up and imposing rigors on landfills, storing waste. However, we do not stop working on waste management. That's the kind of work that goes on. Consultations are already underway with both local governments and entrepreneurs. And we will no longer urgently present such appropriate projects in order to strengthen the incentive for recycling. The next question, the next votes concerned spatial planning plans, etc. Mrs Lenartowicz referred to the fact that motorways, railway lines are built on the basis of specialities. So that's what we're gonna talk about. But this isn't really about waste, so let's not confuse the concepts here in general. We are talking about mode and requirements, solutions for waste management. Mr Józef Brynus said that it should be said that entrepreneurs will be afraid that the inspection will close the landfill or the possibility of storing the waste for breach or repeated infringement, because in the event of a double infringement there may be a possibility of closure. I would like to remind you that after the first infringement, there is a first call to remedy this infringement. So if someone doesn't remove it despite the call, it means that he insists on continuing to violate the rules. So that's why it's written like this. On the other hand, as regards the question whether the Ministry of the Environment will lean on the amendments, yes, I would like to assure you that the Ministry will lean on any amendments. I hope that the discussion on the amendments tabled during the second reading at the committee meeting will be substantive. Ms Urszula Pasławska spoke about the guarantee deposit that it would be additional costs for the industry. As for monitoring, I wouldn't call it that much of a cost, because the costs of monitoring relative to the scale of waste trading are really marginal, so that's not the problem. Moreover, the monitoring will probably serve many other purposes that entrepreneurs will pursue. However, the guarantee deposit is indeed a cost, because if this guarantee deposit most often, I hope, because it is used in tenders, it will be a bank guarantee, it will of course cost. However, if we imagine and such a record we suggest that if you specify the maximum amount of waste stored at the storage site, and this amount of waste should generally be about half the annual state, because this is more or less the estimate, if this six-monthly state is repeated repeatedly, then for 10 years the guarantee deposit will actually cover 2% of 1/20 turnover, and thus becomes a requirement not too expensive in this process, but here it is actually extremely necessary, because without it we can actually only talk theoretically about sealing the system. As far as landowners are concerned, this calls for the amendments tabled to be considered. Yes, I am already declaring that we will again bend over these amendments concerning, among others. property rights. When it comes to restricting the import of waste, we introduce such a ban directly for municipal waste, for other municipal waste for disposal, so only those from which we have secondary raw materials for recovery remain. So when it comes to those records that can cause large quantities of waste, especially municipal and their origin, we are introducing this ban in a clear way. Mrs Lenartowicz spoke about the Basel Convention. It allows the country to introduce its sealing system or restrictions. So we're not violating anything here. As far as the effects of sealing the system are concerned, the Environmental Protection Inspection did not estimate this, it was estimated by the National Chamber of Commerce and in the impact assessment we refer to the opinions and estimates of the National Chamber of Commerce. This has been discussed here and these figures are falling on the basis of their estimates of the system, the illegal waste management system. About the waste base becoming a fake. It's not gonna happen. 40,000. operators and the implemented system, implemented, could be said to be a system of tracking waste and waste management, in fact - I imagine - a system such as the VAT system, where there was a very strong sealing of invoices, financial flows. So fully implemented waste base... [[Data.]] ...will also serve such a system. The question was about refrigerators and dryers, that these are dangerous, and these are not dangerous. I guess it's obvious, I mean. The refrigerator has a cooling agent, which is generally dangerous, and this differs from the dryer. So here's a technical explanation. Mr Aleksander Anczynski talks about executions. So, of course, these executions are being carried out. Enforcement, its efficiency depends on the efficiency of the authorities authorized to execute. These are the tax authorities. Usually entrepreneurs are reluctant to submit to execution and try to avoid it in different ways, but here we do not give up anything, so this execution will be conducted in a legal and systemic manner. Mrs. Zofia Czernow is worried that the waste is still being collected. Unfortunately, for the past many years - probably this is happening now too, although the scale has already decreased - these waste has been accumulated. EVERYone will carry out effective checks, receive adequate financial resources to strengthen staff, to strengthen equipment and to strengthen laboratories, so that the effectiveness of the environmental inspection will be very visible. First of all, we implement environmental inspectors' powers, which allow for effective control, among others. We are closing the 7-day deadline for prejudice over control, which has been very difficult to carry out effective controls. Ladies and gentlemen! The package of these two laws on waste management and the Environmental Protection Inspections must, of course, be introduced in order to control the management of waste, on the transport of waste, on the pursuit of economic activities in the treatment of waste, and, as I have already said, this is not the end of legislative changes in waste management. There are still many tasks ahead of us, among others. the tasks mentioned in relation to the increase in recycling levels. This is, of course, ahead of us. Appropriate projects to increase the level of recycling, waste management and collection and treatment of waste will be presented, in a normal manner, I hope, in the second half of this year, and therefore after parliamentary holidays. It will ultimately clean up waste management so that, first of all, we have the opportunity to manage the waste that we produce in Poland, so that we do not import and allow, not allow, waste to be imported from abroad, except for those from which we receive secondary raw materials. The point is that Poland should not be a waste dump in Europe, but at the same time that in a way compatible with nature conservation, taking into account the natural heritage that we have received, it will manage the waste that we unfortunately produce more and more as inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u211	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that our debate is being listened to by the guests from Florida, whom we cordially welcome. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the vast majority of the substantive speeches made by the representatives of the clubs. I am pleased that this debate has focused on the substance of the matter. As regards the comments, please, on the pace of the procedure, I will say this: From the point of view of those obliged to comply with the provisions we provide, it would be better if, in the final version, these provisions leave the House before the holiday break or during the holiday period and are available to the public, because then the time to prepare to meet these new requirements will be longer. I think that's obvious, and that's why we worked hard. Second point, ladies and gentlemen. Such illegal handling of waste is a kind of waste. If the waste burns in landfills, it cannot be processed in accordance with the regimes in such a way as to recover the raw materials. The circular economy is, after all, a reasonable idea. What is waste for one person can be raw material for another entity. There are European estimates that tell us how many jobs we can create when processing secondary raw materials and what is the circulation of money that can, after all, power the European economy. It is simply an overriding objective here that, at last, the rules in which we really put a lot of taxpayers' money into implementation should have the right results. This was at the beginning of our work, and I would like to thank the Minister for the rapid preparation of draft laws, and all the participants in the debate for having discussed this in substance. We will certainly deal with the amendments tabled during the second reading in a calm and substantive manner at the committee's meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u213	And thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading to the draft laws submitted in prints 2676 and 2677 respectively, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 46 hours 15 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law (print No. 2660). I would like Mr Arthur's Rules of Procedure to state the reasons for the project. [[In one sentence: everything will be ours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u214	In one sentence, it'll be better, yeah. [[For who?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, a group of Members, it has been my honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Act of 5 January 2011. The draft law provides for amendments to the electoral code on the rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament in the electoral districts. The legal situation so far regarding the rules for determining the number of Members of the European Parliament representing the electoral district concerned has resulted in considerable differences in the voting potential in the various electoral districts, which could have negatively translated into turnout. In addition, the current voting conversion system favoured electoral districts with a large number of voting rights. The mechanism used was characterised by the so-called effect. a traveling mandate where the vote of voters in a given district did not have to be translated into a parliamentary mandate in that district. It is worth remembering, however, that districts in European elections usually cover the entire regions, although they have obtained sufficient and sometimes even significant support, this mandate could have been developed by another, most often larger in terms of the number of voters in the district. Thus, some districts were visited. ultimately only two mandates, and in extreme cases only one mandate for a Member of the European Parliament, resulting in a clear lack of representation of a particular region in the European Parliament. The proposed provisions change the situation described above by laying down the principle that at least three Members of the European Parliament are elected in each constituency. According to the proposal, the number of Members of the European Parliament elected in each electoral district will be determined according to the uniform norm of representation obtained by dividing the current number of voters in the country by the number of Members of the European Parliament assigned to Poland. Then, separately for each district, the current number of its voters will be divided by a previously received figure representing a uniform standard of representation. The value of the total number - before the comma - obtained in this way will mean the number of seats per electoral district. If, following this procedure, for all electoral districts, not all mandates were allocated to the districts, the remaining mandates should be allocated to those districts for which the quantities obtained reflect sequentially the highest decimals. The proposed rules for assigning mandates to individual electoral districts will allow for a real mapping of the relationship between the number of voters and the number of Members elected in a given electoral district. It will be eliminated incomprehensible to voters and an unjustified rivalry between districts for the number of seats. The way in which representatives are elected in the districts will be clear and precise, as in the case of elections to the Sejm, thus contributing to an increase in interest in the European elections, which in turn directly translates into an election turnout. In addition, the number of candidates on electoral lists will be implemented, which will now reflect the potential of the electoral district, which will result in an increase in support of the mandate of the Member. The current rules have established rigid 10-person lists of candidates in each, even the smallest in terms of the number of eligible, district, creating an imbalance in the strength of the votes cast on individual candidates. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment simplifies and harmonises the electoral mechanism and makes its rules clearer, eliminates the transfer of mandates between districts, the number of mandates per constituency makes the function of a uniform standard, does not increase the cost of elections to the European Parliament. The draft law does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units. The bill has a positive social and legal impact. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u215	Well, thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on Parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law of 5 January 2011, Parliamentary printing No 2660. The proposal concerns the rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament in the electoral districts. What is the current legal status in this regard? It creates significant differences in the voting potential of the different electoral districts and the voting system. He favoured electoral districts with a large number of people entitled to vote. I can give a characteristic example of the district, which consists only of the Podkarpackie voivodship, and the second constituency, the neighbouring voivodship, which consists of the Lesser Poland and Świętokrzyskie voivodships - Podkarpackie in the first two terms of office had only two Members, and this second mandate has always been threatened, it is the question of the conversion of votes. We believe that this change, the setting of a basic limit: at least three Members in the constituency, is a proper change. It will then be possible to apply the uniform standard of representation obtained by dividing the current number of voters in the country by the number of Members of the European Parliament assigned to Poland. Then - you have already told the rapporteur how this will be determined - the current number of voters in a given district will be divided by a previously received figure, which is a uniform norm of representation. The value of the total number - before the comma - obtained in this way will mean the number of seats per electoral district. This project allows for a real mapping of the relationship between the number of Members entitled to vote and the number of Members elected in the electoral district concerned. It will be eliminated incomprehensible to voters and an unjustified rivalry between districts and a constant problem why we have such and not another number of mandates. I would like to remind you that the existing rules have established rigid 10-person lists of candidates in each, even the smallest number of eligible, district, causing an imbalance in the strength of the votes cast on individual candidates. Information on the number of Members of the European Parliament elected in each electoral district will be given in the order of the President of the Republic of Poland to order elections. The amendments are therefore designed in Article. 342 electoral codes. The draft contains provisions modifying the rules for the State Election Commission to determine the results of the vote and the results of the elections. The draft repeals the provision of the Article. 358 electoral code. This provision regulates the conduct of the State Election Commission to determine the number of mandates per list of candidates. The project contains minimum vacathio legis - within 14 days of the date of publication of these provisions they will enter into force. The project is in line with European Union law, as is apparent from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of 25 June 2018. The Law and Justice Club supports this project, calls for it to be given a legislative run and for further work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in electoral law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u217	Thank you. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u218	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a general remark at first. PiS, when it comes to electoral ordination, it's got to end in disaster. Well, unfortunately, that's the experience we have with you and we don't have any better. We're waiting for the better. This must end in disaster for citizens and for Polish democracy. The State's intentions have always been clear about ordination, that is to say, to write an ordination in such a way that its laws always favour the PiS to write it in such a way that, in the various blurring of the rules, the interests of Law and Justice are always at the top. That's the real intention of changing ordination at all. On the other hand, in the case of Euroelections, I would say that you have such a tactical goal, because the idea is to first get rid of compromised ministers, headed by Prime Minister Szydło, perhaps even with Marek Kuchciński. They want to flee quickly to Brussels, as it is reported in the media and in political circles. That is the truth about changing this ordination, and that is the truth about your true intentions. You have not taken care of the euro for Poles, but you will be very happy to take care of the euro for your party activists. You have lost serious EU negotiations for the euro for Poles, and you want to win the euro for your political activists. Shame on you here and think deeply about what your mission is to write this ordination. In addition to all this, I would also like to tell you that our experience with you in writing ordination is very bad. You don't work on ordination, you don't reform ordination, you break into ordination, you break in, you take what's yours, and you run into Novgorod. And we can't agree on that either. I'll tell you, I'm sorry to say this, but with people who have such intentions or with a party that has such intentions, you must never change the electoral order. There is a need to defend the rules that have been developed over many, many years. And that's why the Civic Platform Club will apply to reject these proposals right away at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u219	Thank you. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u220	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current electoral ordination, even though it is not perfect, has one serious advantage, perhaps for some it is incomprehensible, but it has one serious advantage. Well, it maps the current state of the political scene. I'll remind some of you what it looks like to count tickets. Well, the first step - the PKW indicates which committees exceed the 5% threshold, then method d The Hondta counts how many different electoral committees there are and, fortunately, the third step of the Niemeyer method includes the allocation of mandates for each electoral district. But once again, ordination maps the current state of the political scene, even though it has some flaws. And this proposed electoral ordination actually in small districts, mostly 3-mandates, and with the Hondt it acts like a guillotine. She opens the door with a wide bench for the largest parties, especially the biggest party, the party of applicants, and in fact closes the door to all smaller parties. It does not mimic the state, it simply jots the political stage, which is currently in the political theatre of the Republic of Poland. Nor does he give up his voice, because he was also talking about his voice. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be such a case that 25% votes cast per lot and 35% will give exactly the same result, which is 1 ticket. Once again, because that is really the electoral code, as the name suggests, should be honorable. If you win, it's an honorary competition, not an ordination made underneath you. After all, this ordination is sewn up for polls. She's not code, she's for the moment, for the time being. That's not how you do it. That's not how you win an election. Elections must be won with honor, with an open head, face facing people, not with a tool that is here and opens wide the door of a given political party. So, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the celebration of democracy, which is the election, in this case the elections to the European Parliament, are to be the cause of this celebration of one party. That's the way it's gonna be. I don't understand why such an intellectual effort is being done here. I wonder what has happened to the ruling party, the applicants, that such a disliked European Parliament is becoming the most favorite place to work for many future parliamentarians of Law and Justice. Okay, but taking all this into account and in the name of really defending the fundamental foundations of democracy, so that Poles know that they choose, give their voice [[♪ The bell ♪]] on behalf of individual political parties, not one that eliminates others, I ask on behalf of the Civic Platform to reject this project, which is harmful because it does not improve the political scene, but devastates it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u221	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Still, I'm glad I'm watching some kind of theater. Dear PO-PiS, famous Spanish thinker José Ortega y Gasset stated that the health status of democracy of any type and scope depends on one minor technical detail - the electoral procedure. Everything else is secondary. And Karl Popper said - it will be about you all - that the electoral system of the representation of a proportional member removes the personal responsibility of the Member. It makes it a voting machine, not a thinking and feeling person. Sounds familiar. Dear PO-PiS, but I don't know if it's honorable. Theater's on. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that of course... [[Where? We're defending ourselves.]] ...you have applied for rejection, but both parties, the main parties, will benefit from this code. We sensed these intentions already in January 2018. We thought, I said this from this speaker, that the next step would be to amend the Code to the European Parliament on the creation of duopol. We can talk about the next step, it's going to be: you're about to change the election order to the Sejm, there's going to be 100-mandate districts. Let me remind you that this is a violation of the article. 32 Constitutions: Everyone is equal to the law. Everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities, and of course that is not the case. Why? This was even stated by the mission of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and I quote: Candidates cannot run for their own elections to the Sejm. They have to share letters with other candidates. The absence of provisions allowing independent candidacy is incompatible with Article. 7 § 5 of the 1990 Copenhagen document Ladies and gentlemen! They're talking about the Seyms, but now it's great. ♪ Hondt, now it's gonna be great ♪ Hondt, which is exactly the same opinion of the OSCE, can be quoted now. From now on, dear citizens, in principle only two people will decide about the composition of the Polish representation in the European Parliament: President Jarosław Kaczyński and President Grzegorz Schetyna. You must therefore report to them because you have no real chance of building your own committee or voting for smaller committees. [[But the intentions are sincere.]] Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the real electoral threshold will evolve after the introduction of this code, this change of 15 to 20%, which means that it is unconstitutional. In fact, I could say that parliamentarianism comes from the French word parler - to talk, to find out. But I have long since stopped hoping that, because in this Parliament we are talking, but we are not convinced, because what, ladies and gentlemen, has shown us this law on IPN, the speed of its introduction, the mode, the unclear circumstances of the initiative. The next act, which is proof of this, is the Law on the reduction of Members' salaries. I don't know if you've ever seen a carp that votes to speed up Christmas Eve, but I've seen it in this room, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the titles of the press commenting on these changes? The Legal Gazeta: A new ordination for the European Parliament, i.e. the concreteing of the PO-PiS and the cut-off of the small ones. The Jagiellonian Club, which co-creates the states... I am connected to it myself, the article by Piotr Dzięgłowski sounds like an alarm: bad change. Why is the new electoral order to the European Parliament a mistake?Kukiz and the second article were right. The OSCE calls on Poland to change its ordination. inPolitics: I do not know if the Jagiellonian Club is right, but we need a serious discussion as to whether we are going towards a two-block system. Changes in the ordination of the European Parliament. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is the national list, we have no choice here, with a low percentage threshold, e.g. 3%. Then, as it were, everyone... Then there will be a full mapping, in fact, of the electoral structure for the European Parliament. I'll admit I have an example. If you think it's method d Honda's right, and now it's gonna be great. In fact, Hondt, and you will crush all the small committees, and this is the real purpose of PO-PiS, PO-PiS, once again, because for both these structures it is beneficial, I will remind you of the 2005 elections: the Civic Platform - 14 seats to the Sejm. The Civic Platform wins 125 thousand. Votes, PiS - less than 100 thousand, SLD - 38 thousand, Samoobrona - 32 thousand, LPR - 26 thousand. The Civic Platform at 125,000. He wins 6 seats, and the PiS wins 5 seats, SLD, Self-Defense and LPR - one at a time. Now it's going to be that the seventh ticket would have a Platform, or seven and eight, and a PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm afraid it's the sixth. [[But there are no such standards.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are preparing to change the electoral code also to the Sejm, with three mandates, where you will destroy all the small citizens' committees. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens have become an addition to the parties led by the two leaders. Nothing more, don't kid yourself and don't do the theater that you don't agree with. Round-shaped system is underway. The Kukiz Club15, in fact, defending citizens' rights regarding access to politics, is applying, Mr Marshal, to reject the project in its entirety. I'd like a record, please. There will also be a written request. Thank you very much. [[So you're joining the club?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I think there is no doubt that this bill is aimed at two things: on the one hand, concrete the whole right side in such a way that no one can even think of creating their own grouping, their own list or having their own idea of activity, and on the other hand, a large landing of politicians of the PiS to the European Parliament. This bill, this draft electoral code, has nothing to do with democracy. The aim of democracy is to allow voters to have their representation in the European Parliament or in another institution, in the Sejm or in another institution. In the case of the European Parliament, there is additionally no reason to increase the strength of the major groups by means of the d-Hondt and small districts. In the case of the Sejm, you can say that d Hondt serves that your more than 37% gave you 51% mandates and the possibility of self-government. In the case of the European Parliament, there is no ruling majority, so there is no reason to increase the power of larger groups. You're really just trying to steal seats from smaller groups. You really want to lead us to a situation where we have duopoly. This electoral ordination is dishonest, this electoral ordination will result in very many voters not having their representation in the European Parliament. What will be the result? At the moment, attendance at the European Parliament elections is already low. At a time when the voters, when Poles will find that there is no chance that their candidates will get to the European Parliament, even fewer of them will go to the elections. The current electoral order encourages us to go to elections because it says: the higher attendance, the more seats in a given district. What you are proposing will cause the voters of smaller groups to choose the day at home instead of the day at the elections. This is tilting the field in your direction, this is an unfair game, this is an attempt to make the only person who decides who will be able to go to the European Parliament and who will not, be Jarosław Kaczyński. From our point of view, this solution is unacceptable, which is why the Modern applies to reject this draft law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u225	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be made very clear that these elections are about choosing a Polish representation in the European Parliament, not about selecting individuals from the regions concerned. It is not true what the applicant says - that the regions are separate electoral districts. Eight voivodships are divided into four districts. Two of them form one electoral district and there is no representation from the region. Even if we adopt such a principle that this ordination is complicated, it is worth saying here that it is the most proportionate of all the ordinations used in the case of elections - to local governments, parliamentary authorities. It is precisely this ordination for the European Parliament that reflects the electoral outcome most and translates most directly into public support. You're not gonna change anything here. You are not touching one problem - and you are even deepening it - which is a very low turnout during the elections to the European Parliament, less than 24% in 2014. Only four European countries had lower attendance than us. The change proposed by the PiS will not change this situation. I will say more: she will further deepen this, because if voters do not have the opportunity to vote for their representation in the European Parliament, they will most likely stay at home. This change does not serve democracy. This change in democracy kills. The change proposed by the PiS eliminates even groups with several percent support from the political stage, because this is the real electoral threshold. It is not true that every vote is equally important, because according to this ordination there will be millions of lost votes. Millions of votes cast on specific candidates for specific groups that are not in the European Parliament will simply be lost. These people are probably gonna stay home. The real reason for the change is what has been said for a long time: you are simply looking for a place for yourself, because the press reports that Szydło, Kuchciński and even Terlecki or Mazurek would like to go there, they would go to this hated Brussels. The proposed change is very critically assessed by the Jagiellonian Club mentioned here by the Batory Foundation. Everyone shows that she is in fact threatening the democratic system that is in Poland. To conclude: Mr applicant, you have experience. Didn't the current ordination bother you in 2009, as Mr Nitras snorted [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your ears to the European Parliament? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u227	Thank you. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we begin the third part of the marathon, which can be described as the battle of power for the electoral code. In less than 11 months, we will all have elections to the European Parliament, so Law and Justice has begun to tamper with the next party of the electoral code. The law on which we begin to proceed is not extensive, but the importance of the normative act is not measured by the number of editorial units included in it or by the number of pages which it consists of. The importance of a given law is demonstrated by the matter it regulates, and this law regulates fundamental issues, because they relate to the electoral process. Elections in Western countries are a celebration of democracy. The authority, which often changes their rules, wants to celebrate on its own, forgetting that it is a celebration of the whole nation, not just a handful of people in high positions. Will the adoption of this bill improve the transparency of the electoral act itself? No. Will the electoral campaign be more normal and respectful of the electoral calendar? No. Projectors want to make changes related to the electoral districts and the division of mandates. It's easy to imagine that the evil plans for subsequent changes will embrace this matter. According to Art. In each Member State, representatives of the European Parliament shall be elected on a pro rata basis by means of a system of letters or a single vote to be carried over. Currently Poland has 51 seats in the European Parliament. The next term of office will be 52 mandates. These are relatively small numbers, for which even a small correction has an impact on the distribution of seats in electoral districts. If the number of districts does not change, the manual transfer of mandates will reconcile the principle of proportionality. It is not only that we have the highest electoral threshold across the European Union, which, according to EU law, can no longer be higher, but we are one of the few countries in which there are electoral districts in elections to the European Parliament. What electoral districts are gonna lose their tickets? District No 4, comprising Warsaw and the surrounding districts, district No 11, comprising the Silesian Voivodeship, and district No 12, comprising the voivodships: Dolnośląskie and Opolskie. Coincidence? No. The areas where the PiS doesn't have much support are those districts. You're making choices for yourselves, but make sure you don't accidentally cut your suit into a political flop. Currently, every election committee in Poland is to issue 130 candidates. Following the proposed changes, it will be only 102 people and 104 after receiving an additional mandate. In this way, the PiS is preparing to make it even more difficult to discuss any electoral coalitions in the elections to the European Parliament. In our view, this violates European rules on elections to the European Parliament, where a maximum of 5% of the electoral threshold is clearly set. Even the environments that are similar to those currently in power, such as the Jagiellonian Club, have been discussed before the proposed changes. Once again, you're changing the bill against each other, assuming that the dark people will buy it. Interestingly, you are not even hiding that you will send your Members to the European Parliament for punishment in accordance with the principle: you have failed in the country, try your forces in Brussels. Therefore, those who are dismissed or compromised will be withdrawn from national policy to represent us in the European Parliament. It's completely unbelievable. The PiS does not hide that he is less and less on the way with the European Union, so it can happen that there will be a fight for our budget for those who completely disbelieve in the effectiveness of the EU institutions. Taking into account the achievements of the Extraordinary Commission so far to consider draft electoral laws - here I bow to the President - we are convinced that they will not end in a positive outcome, because the spirit of little Kazia continues to accompany your inept actions. May these words not become prophetic, but we may soon have another amendment to amend. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - ED makes a request to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u229	Thank you very much. And now Mr Ryszard Petru, the Circle of Liberal and Social Members. [[He's not here.]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't make it.]] The Member has not arrived. We're keeping a seat for him. Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice, on the one hand, criticises the disadvantages of majority electoral ordination, such as the creation of party duopoli and, on the other hand, introduces - first with regard to local elections and now with regard to the European Parliament - an ordination with the main disadvantages of majority ordination, but without its advantages. The proposed amendment of the electoral order aims to strengthen the PiS and the PO at the expense of other groups, aimed at removing from the European Parliament independent of the government Members who often defend Poland from pressure from abroad. I fully subscribe to the appeal of the Jagiellonian Club in this matter, in which it is stated: We want to have a choice, not just an election. As the Jagiellonian Club argues, the window of opportunity for new formations was one of the cornerstones of the success of the United Right. Recall: in 2014 in the Euro elections, the PiS won less than 32%, but in total the right-wing formations received up to 46% of all votes. 4% The votes were received by Solidarna Polska, 3,15% - Jarosław Gowin's formation and 7,15% - The new right. Thanks to this, more than 14% right-wing votes cast on parties other than the PiS a year later were possible successes of the United Right in the form of victory in the presidential election and the inclusion of independent governments as a result of parliamentary elections. [[But what is it?]] It is the results of smaller right-wing parties in the elections to the European Parliament - Poland Together and Solidarna Polska in 2014, as well as the Right of the Republic in 2009 - that led to the unification of the right and the joint start in 2015, which brought the electoral victory. I would ask authors if they seriously want to take the subject matter of the task to do their homework and to count the previous elections to the European Parliament in accordance with the new rules, and they will have a result that gives a crushing advantage to the Platform and the PiS over all other groups. We need to think globally, not just from the point of view of one voivodeship, where citizens who choose may feel undervalued because their voices have gotten wet. We must think from the point of view of the whole state. As experts point out, the proposed amendment will strengthen political polarisation, deprive a large number of political representatives of voters and, as a result, will lead to a deepening of the crisis of confidence in democracy and the Polish party system. Therefore, on behalf of the Right of the Republic of Poland, I am in favour of rejecting this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, a non-member, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Lecturer and the Governing Party! You're making a big mistake, the mistake of treating people like idiots. You don't think they understand what this shift is all about. She's clear, she's clear, she's clear. Firstly, we already have a point that is incompatible with the Treaties when it comes to ordering the European Parliament, because we have a 5% threshold. As the German Constitutional Court has said, this is inappropriate, because it is not the European Parliament's intention to create a majority, a stable ruling majority, so these thresholds are not needed for anything. But not only do you not eliminate this threshold, but also introduce a real threshold of about 15-, 20-percent. This is the first thing, absolutely unacceptable in this project. The second thing is that you're really converting a proportional ordination into a majority ordination, because every district that has a few seats to take, is naturally a district with a majority ordination, and it's just a matter of how the vote counts in this circle. But to make it even more perfidious to be even more deceiving, you press into these multimandate circles, i.e. de facto majority, with the majority method, you press method d The Hondta, which causes that even someone who would obtain a mandate in such a multimandate circle because he was, say, the fourth on the list, will not get it even in the 6-mandate circle, because method d Hondta's gonna get him out of this. So that's the extra lie you're pushing in the case of this ordination, this change. Another thing, as has already been said, as has been noted several times, is that the EU treaties provide for the principle of proportionality in the elections to the European Parliament, not the majority rule. If that's the record, that's what you have to stick to. I wonder what it's like. European ombudsman, ombudsman, will consider it appropriate to act, but will protest. Maybe it would be better to be honest right away to pain and to write down in the Constitution that power belongs to the party, in this case the Party of Law and Justice, and we will never give up power gained. It would be fair and clear. Then you wouldn't treat voters like idiots. There is another aspect of the matter, a very important aspect, perhaps much more important than this mechanism, which you are trying to smuggle in such a lying and deceitful way. It is about who will represent Poland in the European Parliament, because real Eurorealists are needed in the European Parliament as never before, not like you. It was President Lech Kaczyński who signed the Treaty of Lisbon, I would like to point out. This is the cause of all the problems we have now with the European Union. I remember those scenes when the pen refused to obey Mr Lech Kaczyński. It's a symbolic scene, even Providence indicated that he wouldn't do it, and he did it. It is because of you that we now have problems with the European Union. He couldn't have signed it, he signed it. You're pretending to be hovering. The button, not the captors of you. The European Union needs a very deep reform, self-limitation, return to the EEC. This is what opposition is needed in Europe, not those who pretend to be against the European Union, but who actually benefit from it. [[You insulted us again.]] Don't comment, Madam President, because I don't think you have anything to say about this. Ladies and gentlemen! This is one big scam. Unfortunately, voters will understand, voters will see it. Don't make idiots out of people. I'll say it again: don't make idiots out of people. [[But you've said it for the tenth time.]] This is especially for you again, because people will remember it, and they'll settle it for you. You may be surprised because there are already about 30% of those who want to leave the Union. You're not the one they're gonna vote for in this case. You're the one who's gonna vote for the real Uniorealists. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u233	Mr Richard Petru, circle... Can you recall the name of the wheel? I only have LS written. [[Liberal and Social.]] ... Liberal and Social. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u234	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your proposal, I am speaking to the Members of the PiS, the change in the electoral order is another aspect of the action: we deserved it. You just don't have a job for the dilemmas of your government, you're gonna want to send them... You do not have a job, Mr Szydło, for dilemmas, and you will want to send Marshal Kuchciński, Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the Europarlament, but notice that they do not know each other in Europe, in Polish politics they have compromised themselves... [[I heard from him.]] ...they don't know foreign languages, and if they could, they would have brought Poland out of the European Union. But there is something in Europe and in the European Parliament that you like so much. There's money in there. Somehow you don't want the euro in Poland for Poles, but for yourself it's every amount you accept. And that's what this change in ordination is all about. In fact, the whole policy of PiS is one great greed, whether in the form of prizes, whether in the form of briefings in the companies of the Treasury, whether in the form of a robot for their own. These changes in ordination are only about making more people from PiS pay in euro. My favourite messenger, Krystyna Pavłowicz, is not here today. I wonder how she can vote in favour of changes in the ordination of the European Parliament, if she calls Europe a slut flag. Let us also note that it was your President Andrzej Duda who compared the Union to the partitions, but earlier as a Euro MP for a year's work for the assassins he took 48,000. Euros. The worst part is that in the European Parliament you will simply bring shame to Poland. I wonder what Mr Kuchciński really knows, what good it can do, Mrs Beata Szydło for Poland and Europe in Europe in Europe. You're manipulating the number of seats in the electoral districts to artificially overwhelm your support. Where you have low support, you reduce the number of tickets. Where it was high, that's where you increase the number of parking tickets. That is the whole change in your ordination, and you cover it with information that for Poles these rules are unclear. Simple math. If you were to postpone the results of the elections to date to Europarlament, according to this new ordination instead of the 19 mandates you received in the previous elections, you would have 24. It can be seen that these changes in ordination are so that you can get in the way, but I don't really believe that Poles want to send a team to Europarlament to which everything belongs. Poles would like to see competent people representing Poland in Europarlament who have some knowledge of the world, who are able to speak any foreign language, and this Sejm, this work in the Sejm, shows that, apart from rudeness, lies, screaming from seymoral benches and arrogance, you have nothing Europe to offer. That's why you're up to it, you're messing with the electoral ordination, so you can just pick on the euro that you want for yourselves, not for the Poles. But I'm sure it's for greed. The Poles will call you off. As the Circle of Liberal and Social Members, Mr Marshal, I am filing a motion to reject this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u235	There are 20 ladies and Members of the House for questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Of course, I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to ask a question. I'll keep time disciplined.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For greedy people, for cynical people, 52 seats to the European Parliament seem to be a very sweet bite. There was a poem, a fairy tale by Adam Mickiewicz and a goat: "He was already in the garden, he was already greeting a goose. It seems that this will also be the case for candidates for the European Parliament, because these matters, the issue of ordination to the European Parliament and the issue of independence of the Supreme Court, are very related. Firstly, because the validity of elections and electoral protests is approved by the Supreme Court in accordance with the European Parliament's rules of procedure. And that's the thing that can take revenge on you. The consequence that there will be no body to approve the correctness of the elections to the European Parliament may be vacancies that you will not fill. And it could be... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u237	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant said that this law has a positive social impact. I don't know what a positive social impact she can have if we want a few million votes just to throw it in the trash. This brings only positive party effects, or actually president-party ones, because it will be the president who will be on the lists and where he will run. You are simply hoping for a simple jump to places in the European Parliament, thinking that the current polls will be translated into polls before the elections themselves. Let me remind you that recently we had a president who was also sure that he would win, and he miscalculated himself, happily for Poland. In January, we talked about you attacking another ordination, the Europarliament. At the moment I wanted to ask: Is there any preparation for the next jump... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for the ordination of Parliament? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes proposed by the rulers have one purpose: to ensure the dominance of the PiS on the political stage. Smaller groups will lose any chance of success in the European Parliament elections. According to EU law, elections to the European Parliament in the Member States of the European Union must be based on the principle of proportionate representation. The PiS proposal is an assassination on this principle. If the possibility of 3-mandate districts is created as a universal system, it is a turn towards a majority system. You seek to seize everything you can, and you want to shove your representatives even in the structures of the Europarlament that PiS hates. Isn't that hypocrisy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u241	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The electoral code is a very important document - the law governing rules and procedures democratically. How's it going with us? With us, such an important document is being processed as a PiS envoy project. It's not in any other country. It's just a scandal. It is followed by a fast legislative path, without listening to the citizens - even though you said: we will listen to you - as a matter of urgency, so that no one knows that there are so many changes to the electoral code. Is the aim of the assassination attempt such a distribution of the number of mandates to achieve a better election result of the PiS? So that all those who want to go to Europarliament can go to this Europarlia even though they are Eurosceptics? Is this done just in case: if you don't convince the voters to have a result like this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's your point? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u243	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you about the actual reasons for submitting this project and proceeding over it. I have a question for Members of the Law and Justice, Members of the applicants. Wouldn't it be easier to dignifiedly, with an open pinhole to stand up to the election and simply try to win them as equal with equal, rather than manually steer and conspire Or with mandates, or with election committees, or create new definitions of the!x? I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the local elections will be such a first verification, and in the subsequent elections all these artificial treatments will be of no use to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u245	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a political operation aimed at placing the PiS activists in the European Parliament. Actors who, for various reasons, we know, want to taste European policy. Szydło, Kuchciński, Jurgel, or perhaps even you, Marshal Terlecki, want to be a MEP. So it turns out that your machinations are only intended to make another jump to the stools, which you have already enabled your party's activists in the Treasury companies. But remember, tampering with ordination hasn't worked out well for anybody yet, and it's not gonna work out for you either. Despite these changes, you will not get most of the mandates for Europarliament. The Poles know what you are doing, and regardless of your ordination, they will judge you, and they will judge you negatively. [[Applause]] [[2% support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u247	Mr President, you were wrong about the point of the programme. You made a statement, and now we're asking questions. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club. [[I asked if Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u248	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Maybe I should start by asking the Member of the applicant what kind of studies or consultations had been carried out before these changes, because the applicant referred to the fact that this law would be more readable, fairer, more socially acceptable. It doesn't seem that way to us. As you may have noticed, critical voices prevail in our statements. It seems to us that the five votes you are hoping for, the more seats for Europarlia, is the main objective. Isn't it foolish for you, as an honest man, to proceed over a bill you know your formation will gain from it, and you explain that it's more fair? If you had conducted this so that such elections would have taken place from the next term of office, you would have been believed, but in this case it is really difficult. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u249	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Europe and the European Parliament do not serve the PiS because, for example, Prof. Legutko replaced Plato with Kaczyński. This is such a qualitative intellectual change and I fear that the Europarlament will simply become such an intellectual degradation of Members of the PiS, if any intellectual perspective can be accused of you at all. On the other hand, we are dealing with an attack on the regime of the Republic of Poland. This is something that is unacceptable in Europe. I hope that all the countries that will take part in the elections to the Europarliament will lose these elections, with the benefit of Polish society and Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u251	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll send the petitioner! This bill tells the voters, Poles and Poles: your vote doesn't count, you go to the elections, you cast your vote, but your party and your views will not be presented in the European Parliament anyway. I have a question for you: should these electoral changes, in your opinion, be dealt with in this way? Shouldn't they be preceded by reflection, debate, consultation? What organizations have they been consulted with? How many Poles and Poles participated in this debate? After all, elections are to be a holiday for all of us, for Poles and Poles. Why did you refuse to participate in the debate with those who want to go to these elections and vote? Why do you deny them the right to vote and really destroy the diversity of the political scene by betting only on large parties? And you're well aware of that. Do you think that a system in which only large parties that do not represent all voters make sense? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u253	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u254	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, I think it's reasonable in this situation: Can elections be stolen? Because the fact that you can cheat during the election shows us world experiences - card throwing, falsifying voices, etc. But the question is, can you steal an election? [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] Well, it turns out you can steal an election. PiS is making innovations on a global scale, creating an ordination so that he doesn't have to cheat during the election. All you have to do is have a proper ordination, and you can steal these elections. That's what this new ordination is for. I want to ask you why you're doing this. Perhaps you want to go under this one so quickly, I quote here a Member of the European Union, a slut of the European Union, because if we look at the property statements, your colleagues have four times as much - 100 thousand, but not the euro, not the gold ones. And you only have 100,000. zł. And I have a question: why do you want to steal a ticket from the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Reporter, why do you want in this ordination... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to steal a ticket from the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u255	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Two questions to the applicant. The first concerns the effects, which are said to have beneficial socio-economic effects. The question is, did you mean a salary of 8,000 to your colleagues? Euros, not gold. Was that the difference you were referring to when you talked about the beneficial effects? Because there are absolutely no others here. [[It's six.]] And second question. Such concern for the various regions has been shown by you that you must have at least three Members elected to the European Parliament. I will ask you what is worse for the inhabitants of Świętokrzyskie, Podlaskie, Warmia-Mazurskie, Lubuskie, Zachodniopomorskie, who have no guarantee of even one elected Member according to your proposal. Thank you. [[No, they don't today. That's what I'm talking about.]] Today they do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u257	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u258	For the third time, you are submitting a project on electoral ordination. Local elections - several times you correct them, until shame. Everyone's paying attention to that. And I'd like to ask you why you're trying to make this kind of stuff every time. After all, even the Member from the Right of the Republic with whom you were running today spoke against this project. How about a referendum? Why don't you add the 16th, 17th question about the Euro elections? So people know if you're making room for Marshal Kuchciński, because this wandering mandant is in Podkarpacie. I wanted to ask you when, once again, if things don't work out, you're gonna be manipulating again -- once again -- election policy. People are sick of your manipulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u259	Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u260	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, you're full of shit. Therefore, the question, which is a rhetorical question, of course, to the Member of the applicant: Do MEPs choose Poles or are they elected in any other body? The answer is obvious. On the other hand, regarding the statements made by my previous speaker, a colleague from the Civic Platform, who was so critical of our ideas here, I would like to remind you of the term 2007 and 2011 when we sat together in the Senate. It was then one of the worst laws - legal bubel, over 300 amendments - when it comes to introducing one-mandate electoral districts to the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, everything was fine back then. It was your bill at the time, so you thought it was okay to conspire with the electoral ordination. On the other hand, I will address the representative of the circle or the circle, who here said that the Law and Justice will bring shame in Europe: Do you not have mirrors at home? Enable your comments in this House. [[And you first. You first, sir. How embarrassing it is in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u261	Thank you. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kalet will not bring shame because no one will choose him there. But I wonder if the rapporteurs, when you received the political instructions for this law, was made aware that this ordination supposedly for Euroselection was a law entitled: the mother of all other laws. Why the mother? Because it is intended to carry out an experiment on the living body of Polish voters, which is to confirm that the same ordination you want to introduce in the parliamentary elections in 2019. Because if your 2015 results were to be translated into this particular ordination you want to apply in the elections to the Europarlament, it would already be clear that you do not have two hundred and thirty seats there, but that the PiS would be closer to the constitutional majority. [[How much will you have?]] In fact, that's why we're discussing this bill today, and that's why you want to carry out this experiment to deprive a large part of society of the possibility of having their MEPs and at the same time test their mother. [[♪ The bell ♪]] all other laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u263	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, the question is, why are you doing this, there's no point, because it's already been explained very thoroughly, and it's a clear matter. But I have a question about why you're doing this to your outhouse, which is the Kukiz Club15. [[The voice from the room: But it was weak. Weak.]] Although a Kukiz club representative 15 tells nonsense about some PO-PiS arrangement, it seems that this nonsense was only because it's so stupid now that he's been treated like this by his guru. [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj.]] Then why are you doing this to Kukiz? I think the only benefit of this is that they won't be in the European Parliament. But there are going to be meticulous, faithful representatives of the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Civic Platform.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, very high flight.]] [[Voice from the room: High flight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u265	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stealing, acting, naivety. On the one hand, they are trying to steal some of the seats - us, specifically us, the Kukiz voters15 - on the other hand, part of the room here actors. You're pretending how interested you are. Empty room, PO benches are empty. Then why don't somebody show us what... [[I am.]] Well, Mrs. Skowronska is, yes. So stealing, acting, pretending, you're gonna be okay. And on the third hand, naivety, because I hear Mr. Petru's theory that money has blinded your eyes. Well, maybe he's measuring it. The facts are that you are able to settle Europresident salaries in six months in a company of the Treasury. But what is important about all of this? The worst part is that it is naive to think that this law concerns changes in the ordination of the European Parliament. This is a test. under a new order to parliament, where there will be only two blocks: PiS and anti-PiS. And this is the kind of Poland you want to prepare for Poles, this is the kind of Poland you want to prepare. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want Poles to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u267	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, is this the electoral code for the European Parliament or is it the murder of small committees and associations? It's a circus and a cabaret. Power is always doing everything it takes to discourage people from going, but the 30-40%. He's coming. They're gonna get the 40%. Voices. Then they throw numbers at each other. People don't want to vote. Who goes to vote? Recipients, budget people, education, uniforms. Not all of them, because they're also going to vote for normal people, those who are dirty, who are living out of it. When will this fraudulent party democracy in Poland finally end? That election code. We want what Kukiz15, the citizens' movement, proposes: to change the ordination not only to Europarliament, but also to the Sejm, to larger cities, to be represented by worthy people, trusted. Let's bring the state back to its citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you guys... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...you don't want to, you're just blinded by a mammon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u269	Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u270	I wonder how many moments you'll shamelessly break the rules, the law, ethics. I hear it's kind of a test. Then I wonder why you're so shy. Write straight, as you once did, when you draw good patterns from past years: the Front of Unity of the Nation - just the right list. Write straight: The mandate is given to the person who receives the right number of votes and comes from the Committee on Law and Justice. It's gonna be so obvious, that's what you're after. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u271	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is simple: Did you agree with the Platform in an official, secret or only implied way within the PO-PiS... [[Secret.]] ...because the fact that you have the same idea is clear to everyone that you have decided to strengthen the Platform very much, because she has the coalition capacity that you don't have, that in exchange for any of the MEPs you're giving them, you've decided to destroy others, it's obvious to us. But do you really think that this is going to change the electoral law and the new 100 electoral districts you want to do in the parliamentary elections, then you're going to get that total advantage and win? Well, I'm sure you'll win. You'll only burn Poland. In fact, this is how you show that you two deserve each other so much. We hope that you will simply go to this historic hell with the Platform as soon as possible. [[Applause]] [[I'm not going to hell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u273	Member Jakub Kulesza, club Kukiz.15. Are you an MP? Mrs. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the club... Oh, sorry, wheel, new wheel. Here you go, Member, liberal... Yeah, liberals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u274	Liberal-social, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u275	Oh, liberal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u276	Hello. Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2014, when there were elections for Europarlment, you got 19 seats, that's all. Yeah, remember? And if the idea of this ordination were introduced then, in 2014, you would have 25. You can see the difference with the naked eye. [[Voice from the room: Four, 24.]] 24. You can see the difference with the naked eye. So the question is simple, not why you bring it in, but why are you so greedy and when this greed is over, your greed, your greed for positions, your greed for money, your greed for everything? And one more question: Why are you so afraid? Why are you so scared? After all, you hate this Union, every day you do everything you can to get us out of this Union. [[She needs to be changed.]] So the question is to the applicant: When will your greed end and why are you all such cowards? [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: You have to have some rules...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Only the truth... who lies goes to hell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u277	The representative of the applicants, Mr Artur Rule, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, it's not an easy task to answer 20 questions that weren't questions, but I'll try to answer them in the order of speaking. First... Okay, to the Owl Member, who... Maybe not in order, but Mr Owl asked a rather interesting question. I'm afraid he left, but I'll answer him. [[A whistle-blower.]] Mr President of the Modern Club, it is precisely today that this may be the case - and it is not purely theoretical - that we will not choose a Member of the European Parliament in a given district. What are you gonna say to those voters then... [[If people don't go.]] ...who go to the election, vote for members on their list and no one is elected in a given constituency? [[It didn't go well enough.]] That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen, purely theoretically, if we're talking, there's a possibility that 10 letters will get 10%. Let's agree that there's such a theoretical possibility. Do you know how many districts there would be no member of the European Parliament? Six or seven. Unfortunately, that's what it says. I have the impression that it was so complicated that people didn't know exactly how to choose these Members and that those who were to be elected were to be chosen in large districts, i.e. to be elected in Silesia, in Małopolska, in Lower Silesia, in Wielkopolska. And those who knew what this ordination was all about, there they tried to win their place on the letters. But what about these voters - here Mr Sowa mentioned the Zachodniopomorskie voivodeship with Lubuskie or Kujawsko-Pomorskie - who live in these smaller districts, in the smaller ones where there are fewer voters, fewer inhabitants? Today, our answer is a proposal to change the electoral order. We assign the number of... tickets to a certain number of voters, to a certain number of residents living in a given constituency. About 800,000. residents. What does that mean? This means that none of the regions is privileged to others. It said here that a big one has an advantage. Yes, today a large district, Silesian or Małopolska, has a definite advantage over a small district. But is the voter in a small district, the voter who lives in Lublin, Podkarpacie or Bydgoszcz the worse voter? [[What about Lublin?]] Is his vote less important than the voter who lives in Silesia? I was just... [[What if it doesn't? How's it not going?]] No. Madam, that is a great question. Imagine that in Silesia the list to the Sejm, some particular election committee, gets 20% and attendance is 20%, and in Kujawsko-Pomorskie district the list gets 25% and attendance is 25%. Where's the ticket going? I'll tell you what: Silesia. He will go to Silesia because there are more inhabitants there. And this is a bit of a violation that several Members have spoken of today. They said that the number of tickets in a given district depends on attendance. Theoretically, yes, but in the second, third step. This depends most on how many inhabitants, how many voters are in a given constituency. There was a question about election thresholds. We're not changing the electoral thresholds. We do not change the electoral thresholds, but here I agree with Mr Wolf. In the European Parliament in this ordination... I mean, there is no ruling majority in the European Parliament, there is no opposition. Those who were there, or those who are interested in it, know that there is a coalition and opposition there for every single document. On the other hand, we respect these 5% Which is, and we're not changing that. We don't change the boundaries of the electoral districts either. Many times during this debate in the last few weeks I have heard such an accusation that we will want to change the electoral districts, that if it is 51, that means there will be 17 electoral districts. It won't. The districts are as long as they were, which means there are 13 electoral districts. They're not gonna change by two miles. We are only giving the voters who live in small districts a chance to have their representatives in the European Parliament. The question was whether all voters were equal to the law. Yeah, but not everyone, according to the rule of law that is in force today, has the same chance of having their vote equal to the voter who lives in a large constituency. There was a question about the national list. I'll be honest with you, this is a solution. Indeed, in more than 20 countries of the European Union there are national, open and closed lists. And I'm sure there was time to think about it, but let me remind you, for the last time, we had a national list like this in the contract seym, and it ended in a complete disaster. Poles do not want national lists, because in the case of the closed national list, leaders decide who gets to the European Parliament, voters can only vote on the list, while the open list is a beauty contest, there are TV stars, those who go to favorite TV or radio shows. What chance does a local leader have to beat a TV star like that? And that's the question. It is often repeated, and it is often repeated as to how undemocratic the procedure that creates six is. - Five. - Four. - three-mandate constituency. I'll remind you that most of the Seym district is five circles. - six-mandate. In the Lubuskie Voivodeship, the four electoral districts are the six districts. - and five-mandates. In this regard, did those who wrote that electoral order break the constitution, break democracy, cause small committees with 10% support to be excluded? Yeah, that's one way to say it, 'cause a small committee with 10% support doesn't stand a chance of getting into a sejm today, but somehow no one. It's not outrageous, and somehow I didn't see the project they wanted to turn it into. We could, of course, change this within this project, combining the electoral districts, but I can only hear this scream - I can't say anymore: screaming - in the hall, that while we are also matching the electoral districts to our own needs, to our own electorate. We leave circles like they were established a dozen years ago, so that there is no charge. I'm still trying to find a substantive question, because it was actually rather speeches than questions. Good. The question was whether this was in line with EU rules, so you would allow me - of course I could also tell you about my own experience and make my own point - that I would read the position of the Sejm Analysis Office: the proposed amendment is not incompatible with EU rules. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the definition of rules for the election of MEPs is left relatively freely to the Member States. They only have to respect certain minimum starting assumptions, having already been free to concreteise them. Such a top-down assumption is e.g. requirement for a proportionate system for the conversion of votes into mandates or a prohibition on the establishment of more than 5% the electoral threshold, hence in Poland one threshold - 5% - is valid in the elections to the European Parliament. Therefore, the 8% threshold known from the Seym elections does not apply. for coalition electoral committees. The free recognition of the national legislator was also left to decide whether the territory of a Member State of the European Union in the elections to the European Parliament would be one electoral district or divided into smaller districts. EU law allows both options here, leaving the legislators of the Member State to choose either one or the other. We also have 13 electoral districts in the UK. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, here I agree: In most countries there are national lists and here I will go back to what I said earlier. We have some experience with the national list and these are not the best experiences. [[But a little bit from a different time.]] Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much. Thank you all for your questions and for your participation in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u279	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, the proposed amendments to the electoral code on the election of Members of the European Parliament in the electoral districts are a step in the right direction. So far, doubts have been raised. the rule of the wandering voice, which was not assigned to a particular circle, so some circles lost on it and others gained. This principle was not known in other elections. Hence, there were districts to which only two mandates were issued, and in extreme cases, even one mandate. After the changes each district will have at least three MEPs, which will ensure the representativeness of each of them in the EP. To date, low attendance has been a major problem for the EP elections. My question: Can the proposed changes contribute to increasing this turnout, mobilising voters in different regions? And second question: Has the previous model of elections with these wandering voices had its original form in any other Member State of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u281	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We would proceed with item 10 of the agenda, but we cannot, and therefore I am declaring a 10-minute break. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] We can't, because you don't have a CEO, but maybe he'll be here early. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 09 h 17 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017 (print No 2415) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 2625). I ask the first president of the Supreme Court, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf, to present the information. [[Applause, some Members get up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to inform you about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017. First, I would like to point out that the conditions under which the Supreme Court operated during the reporting period were significantly different from those in previous years. This was due to the fact that intensive work on the next Supreme Court laws began in 2017. Their result was a certain slowdown in the Supreme Court's judicial activity. However, this was not the result of negligence on the part of the Supreme Court. The work on the July 2017 Act, its adoption and then waiting for the President's signature resulted in the smooth management of the Supreme Court being impossible. In particular, this concerned the legislative activity, which in essence requires a longer period of time. The uncertainty regarding the status of Supreme Court judges and their business future has made it very difficult to appoint formations of judges, especially enlarged judges, and rapporteurs. This delayed the preparation of the papers and the appointment of the meetings. The activities of the Supreme Court in the reporting year were also affected by significant staff shortages resulting from the absence of appointments and the failure of the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, to refer judges to the Supreme Court. However, despite the ruling in reduced staffing and regulatory instability of the legal system, and the impact of 11 000 cases. each year, we have managed to maintain very good efficiency in all categories of cases. The average waiting time for substantive consideration was: in the Civil Chamber - 9 months, in the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and - then - Public Affairs - 13 months, in the Criminal Chamber - 4 months, in the Military Chamber - up to 2 months from the date of the impact of the case. Thus, the average time in the Supreme Court was 7 months, which fully corresponds to the standards set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The efficiency of the Supreme Court is also justified by the fact that, despite the difficulties identified, compared to the previous year, the difference between the number of cases brought before it and the number of cases actually identified is more favourable. In 2016, 325 cases were considered more than received and 377 more cases were identified in the reporting year 2017. A total of 11 373 cases were identified in 2017, including 8034 cassation and cassation complaints, 1146 complaints, 147 legal issues. During the reporting year, a special event was the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court. The assessment of the activities of the highest judicial court throughout the century required not only an in-depth history study, but also a summary of the rich judicial achievements and commemoration of outstanding figures deserved for the justice system and for Poland. Two monographs on the history of the Supreme Court were prepared on the occasion of the Jubilee, including the monograph entitled "The Supreme Court." The President, Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Court 1917-2017 by Professor Bereza and a supplement to the Jubilee Book of the 90th anniversary of the Supreme Court.History and Modernity, covering the years 2007-2017, by the Judge of the Supreme Court of Wiesław Kozieewicz. An occasional installation was also carried out outside and inside the Supreme Court's premises and an exhibition entitled: The 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court and the General Court. The main jubilee celebrations preceded the meeting of the judges of the District Court in Piotrków Trybunalski devoted to the memory of the first President of the Supreme Court of Stanisław Pomian-Srzednicki. It took place on 1 September 2017. The official event inaugurated a meeting of judges, retired judges and Supreme Court staff on 27 September at the Supreme Court. During this ceremony, commemorative medals and scientific publications were presented on the occasion of the Jubilee. The second part of the ceremony was preceded by the Holy Mass in the Architedraal Basilica under the invitation of the Martyrdom of St. John the Baptist in Warsaw and then the ceremonies moved to the Royal Castle, where the presidents were present, representatives of the highest state institutions, courts, tribunals, universities, professional authorities, organizations and associations, as well as judges and employees of the Supreme Court. It was a special event that will be remembered for a long time by all the judges and employees of the Supreme Court. However, the most important was, of course, the current activity, especially in the area of smooth judic supervision. The case-law of each Chamber, detailed in the following section of the information, which is contained in the book that you have received, concerned a very diverse group of issues. This was the result of considerable legal instability and the entire normative system, including numerous amendments and the emergence of completely new laws requiring urgent judicial interpretation. For this reason, interpretation resolutions took on particular importance. In addition to harmonising their views, they not only shaped the practice of courts but also influenced the functioning of law enforcement agencies, lawyers and lawyers. Legislative activities also have an important impact on ensuring legal certainty and enhancing citizens' confidence in the state. The increasing complexity of the legal problems examined has led the Supreme Court to refer repeatedly to international law, European law, the case law of the ECHR and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The subject matter of legal matters decided by the Supreme Court was very diverse in the same way as in previous years. Specific issues are presented in this broad, comprehensive annual information. I will skip these specific issues and draw attention to a number of decisions that were pro-Citizen-like in order to ensure the protection of economically vulnerable participants in legal proceedings and trade, as well as the protection of the social interest. Within the scope of the largest chamber of the Supreme Court, the Civil Chamber, it is possible to refer to Resolution III of the CZP 11/17, which protects existing housing relations in the event of apparent legislative shortcomings. The case-law of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court also raised legal issues concerning the amended 2003 Act on the formation of the agricultural system, which were particularly important to constitutional standards. The doubts raised in the case law of the general courts have revealed a number of legislative errors made by the legislator, in particular concerning inter-temporal law and the harmonious position of changes made in the entire regulatory context. The Supreme Court in the Civil Chamber also dealt with issues related to the major issue of reprivatisation. In the resolution of the composition of the seven judges, CZP III 84/16, in fact, covering the circumstances closely linked to the action of the 1946 Decree, referred to the issue whether the owner of the self-employed property who gave it to a dependent tenant was liable to the owner in respect of the claim for compensation for the use of the property, even though he did not actually own it. In order to settle this issue, the Supreme Court stressed that the failure to approve the reprivatization law forces the courts to assess the claims of those who were subject to nationalisation after the war, taking into account the applicable law. The resolution III CZP 44/17, which addresses the problem of the estate curator not covered by the property owner, also deserves attention. The problem was whether such a curator could represent a decrease in the proceedings for the abolition of joint ownership of immovable property with the effect of unknown heirs or co-owners. It is very important that the Supreme Court gives a negative answer to this question, especially in the face of a number of cases involving the abolition of joint ownership of immovable property which the joint owners or their heirs are not familiar with. In such cases, it is usually the property abandoned in connection with World War II and the Holocaust. However, the greatest difficulties of interpretation arose in procedural law. Enforcement and judicial costs remain particularly important from the point of view of citizens' interests. For many years, this issue has been the subject of interpretation resolutions by the Supreme Court. For a few years I have been paying attention to this. This is worrying because the doubts concern specific standards, which are largely technical in nature. Those provisions should therefore be precise and unambiguous. However, the Supreme Court has repeatedly had to resolve the problems that should be resolved by the legislator's decision. In the case-law of the Criminal Chamber, matters in the field of substantive criminal law were dominated. Other cases concerned the process, bordering on the issues of the system and the process, inter-temporal issues, Union law, fiscal criminal law and enforcement criminal law. Intertemporal issues and interpretation of new criminal laws were more common in decisions issued outside the legislative procedure. In general, this intertemporality is weakly noticeable in legislation and poorly worked out by the legislator. In the area of substantive criminal law and Union law, the resolution of the composition of seven judges on the issue of criminal liability for gambling contrary to the requirements of the Gambling Act was important. It's coming back, and I talked about it last year, too. The Supreme Court held that the conflict of national law with Union law, in the light of the principle of direct application of European Union law, may lead to the replacement of national legislation by Union regulation or to the exclusion of national law by a directly effective standard of Union law. The resolution of the composition of the seven judges, I KZP 4/17, issued following the examination of the legal issue referred to by the Supreme Court, was very important. The Supreme Court has ruled that the law of grace, as the President's power, is laid down in Article. The first sentence of the Constitution, 139th sentence, can only be enforced against persons whose wines are found to be a valid sentence. The resolution of seven Supreme Court Judges, I KZP 2/17, which was issued after the hearing of the Ombudsman's application, was important for the practice of applying the conditional institution of early dismissal. The Supreme Court stated that the criteria set out in Article are the basis for ruling on conditional early release from imprisonment. 77, on the other hand, are not grounds for deciding on this directive the extent of the penalties referred to in Article. Article 53 and Article 53 54. However, a separate sentence was submitted to the resolution. Among the judgments issued outside the legislative procedure, special attention should be paid to the decision [[♪ The bell ♪]] the issues that have arisen...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u283	President, you've run out of time, but we're going to extend it a little longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u284	I didn't know I had time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u285	I'm very sorry, but it's the Sejm's rules. [[Mr. Marshal, a little tact.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u286	It's never been like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u287	15 minutes. Two more minutes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u288	I never expected to have time. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Marshal. I am now saying this: In the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, the issue of lump sums for drivers on business travel was still dominant at that time. Very important social security resolutions were also adopted on the right to a survivor's pension. Very important decisions have also been taken in competition and consumer, energy and telecommunications cases. The Supreme Court has asked the Court of Justice three times with legal questions under Article. 267 of the Treaty on European Union. As far as the organizational activity is concerned, I would like to emphasise, since I no longer have the time, that the Supreme Court has issued official collections, as well as scientific publications, which take up the most important issues that occur in law and economic life. With regard to the irregularities found, as my time has passed, I refer to the book "Remarks on the irregularities found and gaps in the law. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u289	Thank you, Chairman. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of 13 June 2018 on the activity of the Supreme Court in 2017. The report was presented by the first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Margaret Gersdorf. This is today's report, High Izbo, presented by the President... [[Part of the report.]] ...is essentially identical to the report she presented at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. [[Was it that short?]] She said a lot of things. These statistical cases: 11 373 cases were identified, i.e. more than in 2016, more were identified cassation and cassation complaints - 8034. I may draw attention to these decisions of the Civil Chamber and the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, which were in operation in 2017, which the President failed to present to you due to the time limit. Namely, I would return to this seventh resolution on housing matters, among others. on the expiry of the term of the right of use and its non-binding effect on the expiry of the separate ownership of the right to use. This is a law that is very important to all the co-cooperatives in the country, and we have millions of them. In the Penalty Chamber, most cases concerned material criminal law, public issues, inter-temporal issues, European Union law, fiscal and criminal law enforcement. In the case-law of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs too, important decisions were made, especially for citizens, e.g. a flat-rate stay for the professional travel of a driver employed in international transport may be specified either in the collective agreement or in the remuneration regulation or in the contract of employment below 25% of the limit referred to in the provisions relating to employees employed by local governments and public bodies. Two important, seven-year social security resolutions concerned a survivor's pension. The first resolution referred to such a fact that an entitled family member acquires the right to a survivor's pension after a person who, at the time of his death, despite failing to meet the conditions, had a fixed right to a pension should not have, and had a fixed right. This member therefore also acquires the right to a survivor's pension, even though the first person originally did not have such a right. The second resolution expressed the view that the contractual, also implied, determination and delivery, after divorce, of the means of subsistence to the divorced spouse recognised as exclusively responsible for the distribution of life, cannot be regarded as a right to maintenance within the meaning of the Pension and Pensions Act. The Supreme Court also conducted international cooperation in 2017. He joined the European Union network aimed at setting up an electronic platform for cooperation between the Court of Justice of the European Union and the highest judicial authorities of the Member States by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The report also contained an annex, comments on irregularities and legal gaps found. In fact, this is repeated in further information on the activities of the Supreme Court. Every year, it is called for the legislator to take care of the right to make amends for those closest to him in the event of the victim's survival. It is a legislative initiative to amend the Article. 446 Civil Code to the extent that it also concerns compensation and not compensation itself. The problem is, for example. an indication of the value of the subject matter of the dispute in matters relating to employees' claims regarding establishment, existence, termination of employment. This indirectly connects later with judicial costs. The questions raised by the Supreme Court concerned decisions and resolutions in the field of civil substantive and procedural law - I would remind you that the latter were more than 40 during the year - an increase in the number of cassation complaints compared to the previous period, the issue of not establishing the full composition of the Supreme Court, the training of judges to present to the Supreme Court for legal purposes and the opinion of legal acts. There were also questions and statements concerning the activities of the Supreme Court as early as 2018, which is not the subject of the 2017 report and which I will not refer to. The Justice Commission took note of the activity of the Supreme Court in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u291	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017. The information shall, of course, contain formal information on the activities of the court. As the President has already stated, as she presents every year the organisation of the work of the Supreme Court, the issue of case law in individual chambers - civil, labour and social security, criminal, military - and the conclusions and movement of cases in individual years, is presented here the years 2015. The President of the Supreme Court also described the issue of the functioning of the court in connection with changes in the scope of the Supreme Court. This has complicated the functioning of the court very much, but the reality is not as bad as the report puts it. On a similar level there is a quantity, the time taken to deal with cases. In the Civil Chamber it is 9 months, in the Criminal Chamber - 4 months, in the Labour Chamber - 13 months, in the Military Chamber - 2 months. On the other hand, it seems false to me to say that it is good for the average time taken to deal with cases - 7 months. This is a formal calculation of these individual months, individual cases, while 5 000 cases cannot be compared. Civil cases for which the waiting period is 9 months, with 2 months of 60 cases being dealt with in the Military Chamber. In the Military Chamber it is indeed 2 months, but there are dozens of cases, while there are 5,000. cases in the Civil Chamber are dealt with within 9 months and in the Chamber of Labour, where there are almost 4,000. Case, we have a 12-month period. So in these most sensitive and socially sensitive cases, in these chambers, this is a very long time. If we wait 12 months, it certainly cannot be said that this is a European standard, because even 7 months it is a long time. According to the president, this is a good time. Data from individual chambers can, of course, be presented. She's reduced the number of cases involved in the Civil Chamber. In 2015, it was 5300, then slightly increased, but in 2017. - It's 5100 already. Cases were dealt with 5500 in 2015, then, in 2016, a little less, even less in 2017. The number of cases remaining in the Civil Chamber is also decreasing: from 2200 to 1700. [[You'll compare that to the Constitutional Court.]] In the work room, however, the number of cases that were dealt with increased. There has also been an increase in the number of cases that have been dealt with in the Criminal Chamber. Unfortunately, there's an inheritance here. There are also declines in the Military Chamber, but if we are talking about 60 or 80 cases, it is difficult to regard this as representative of the number of cases dealt with by the Supreme Court. The information also shows that there are still worrying phenomena related to the questions asked to the Supreme Court. Here it is once again stated that the training of judges should be improved as regards the question-to-question aspect to the Supreme Court, that it is still resolved in an unsatisfactory way and that these cases do not properly contain the grounds for the Supreme Court to be able to answer that question. In this respect, however, it is strange to say that the President praises the Supreme Court judges, that they are engaged in scientific, teaching, publicistic activities, participate in numerous conferences and scientific seminars, often as referees and moderators, are valued lecturers who participate in the training of judges ruling in universal courts and authors of scientific publications. Well, since they're in charge of training judges, there's no way in the second part of the same report to say that this training is missing. Or should somebody else do that training? These trainings are, Madam President, in her report, commending the judges for this, while... [[There's just not enough of them.]] ...concludes the courts of the lower courts that they have wrongly referred questions to the Supreme Court. This means that these trainings are not carried out at the appropriate level. And here it is worth asking how many judges are involved in scientific and teaching activities, how much time they spend and how much time they spend on their judicial activities. In general, it can be concluded that the information meets all the formal requirements which are made for such reports, and that, in my opinion, there is too much information relating to the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court, with the problems encountered by the Supreme Court in connection with the changes which it is obliged to implement, as these are amendments to the laws which the parliamentary chamber adopts. It is absolutely unacceptable, in our view, to discuss this in the report. In this respect, the President should limit himself to the things required by this type of report. We accept the report. It contains information as usual. On the other hand, it is these political assessments that should not be in this type of report that are worrying. I think that during the debate, the president will be asked questions. I am personally very interested in the issue of scientific and teaching activities. However, I think that it will already be the Supreme Court in its new composition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u293	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam First President of the Supreme Court! Today's debate on the activities of the Supreme Court is conducted under special conditions. On 3 July 2018, the Supreme Court will sign up as its black card, not only in the history of the Supreme Court itself, but also in the history of democratic Poland. Therefore, in today's debate in the Polish Sejm, we are obliged to address this issue in a much broader way. This debate is likely to be the last debate on the normal Supreme Court. For we all see how PiS has destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal for the last two years. Let me just remind you that last year the Supreme Court celebrated its 100th anniversary. They were still established in the Polish Kingdom, played a huge role in the extremely complicated process of uniting the legal system after years of partitions. And the same Supreme Court later passed the period of sanation, then communal time and extremely difficult period of systemic transformation. And knowing the great role played by the authority of the Supreme Court itself, his judges passed a deep review after 1989, as deep as perhaps any other public institution. And thanks to these courageous decisions, as well as the excessive demands required to serve as Supreme Court Judge... [[Examples? Any examples?]] ...in the last 30 years, numerous decisions have taken place that have changed the life or status of millions of Poles. Protecting workers, trade unions, mining pensions, parents, people with disabilities, people who are illegally arrested or drivers in the insurance market - these thousands of good and difficult judgments are the effects of multi-month meetings and debates at the highest legal level. That is why the Polish Supreme Court had a very good opinion among European judges, and Polish judges were invited to international publications or international conferences. But this 100-year chapter of the beautiful and difficult history of the Supreme Court can have its end today. For it may turn out that after all these turns of history it is the power of free Poland that will stab the knife in the back of the Polish judiciary. It is PiS, the party of Jarosław Kaczyński, from the beginning of this term, cheating Poles, that kills the Polish justice system, instead of correcting it. He kills the Polish justice system by putting Stanisław Piotrowicz in the role of executioner of the prosecutor of martial law. He kills the Polish justice system, making regular purgatory in common courts. It kills the Polish justice system, introducing political nominates to the National Judicial Council. And kills the Polish justice system, making a mockery of the Constitutional Tribunal and erasing control [[Applause]] the creation of the law. And today he is killing the Polish justice system, trying to ruthlessly shorten the term of the first president of the Supreme Court... [[Disgraceful.]] ...a term anchored in the Polish Constitution. [[Applause]] If we want to talk about the Supreme Court in 2017, let's remember these pictures. These are worth more than 100 comments. [[Member Arkadiusz Myrch shows a photograph of protesting Poles]] Thousands of Poles on the streets of cities and towns. [[Applause]] Young people, families, friends. [[Touchdown, applause]] All, side by side, united in defence of fundamental values - the rule of law and individual freedom, all against the stubbornness of the state. If we want to talk about the Supreme Court in 2017, let us recall these headlines from the newspapers around the world - the British For the last two years, she's become the biggest of her pains. This was the reality of last year, 2017, which is why today's debate is not a classic debate on issues arising from the case law of the Supreme Court. Today's debate in Poland in 2018 is a debate on the Polish regime, including whether the PiS will complete the Eastern model or defend the European Western model confirmed by Poland's accession to the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Is that it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u295	Mr Rafał Trzaskowski... [[Now the presidential candidate.]] [[Voice from the room: No comments.]] ...also the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent years, no one has put their hand in destroying democracy as you have, destroying the achievements of free Poland, destroying social capital institutions and destroying trust, and without trust in society it is difficult to build a state that is strong. There hasn't been anti-state power in 30 years like your power. [[Applause]] Step by step, you are trying to dismantle democracy in Poland, but you are also breaking the most important principles of an elite club, the most elite club in Europe, in which we are in, i.e. the principles of the European Union - a paralyzed Constitutional Tribunal, a politicized prosecutor, an attempt to politicize universal courts, civil service in your hands. Tomorrow you want to clearly break the constitution again, try to force the retirement of the Supreme Court judges, try to illegally shorten the term of office of the first President, even though it is enshrined in the Constitution. [[Applause]] And you know what that standard is? The standard you are trying to serve us here, this is the standard of the banana republic, this is not the European standard. There used to be cases like this in this country, too... [[Voice from the room: Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: What country?]] ...which were outside of dispute in every law and European state, were outside of dispute in Poland and Europe. [[Oh, finally.]] But of course you broke it all because everyone... [[Voice from the room: quieter, quieter.]] ...who destroys institutions, destroys the state. You're putting your hand in it. [[Applause]] The question is, what happens next... [[Milk cows won't give.]] ...because you're trying to gag us here, too. Maybe it's time to solve the Seym and the Senate. Because it should logically be a further step, and it is clear that parliamentary democracy is obviously bothering you. The question is, of course, what you're not going back to. Mark Twain said if the vote made a difference, you wouldn't let him. And that, of course, is the question to you: What will happen to the next election? Because the Supreme Court is in charge of the election. You're messing with the electoral ordinations, and today was another piece of evidence. As I said, you introduce the standard of the banana republic and place Poland outside the civilized community of nations, outside the community of nations by the way. [[Voice from the hall: Heal yourself, man.]] Think about what that means. For months you have simulated a dialogue with the European Commission, you have chosen a prime minister who was to be more... less helpless in European salons than the prime minister, and it has proved even more dogmatic, turned out to be even less professional than the previous one. Look, it's not enough to speak English, you still have to have something meaningful to say in this language. [[Applause]] Our relationship with the European Union has never been so bad, but the problem is that for your stubbornness and lack of professionalism we will have to pay all of us. Budget cuts, combining the rule of law... [[Shh...]] ...with EU funds, procedures for infringement of EU law, which can end with penalties of hundreds of millions of euros. So what? You were keying, pretending. [[They just lied.]] That's where the professionals are. Look, there's no one out there to fool what you're doing. It is the most elite club in the world and in Europe. We used to be proud that we belonged to him, and look... [[Voice from the room: But we are talking about Law and Justice.]] ...what you're doing with all this. No one fooled you in Europe, that's the truth. [[Voice from the room: About!]] A few days ago, the European Commission decided to take a step without precedent, addressed cases for a direct infringement of the Treaty - Article. 19 and Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 47 Charters of Fundamental Rights, because the European Union guarantees the right to an independent and impartial court - in line with the logic that Polish judges are also judges of the Union, because they rule on the basis of EU law, and since they are judges of the Union, the Union has the right to ask and we all have the right to ask whether, because of what you are doing, independent judges will still be in Poland. [[Applause]] This is what the logic of mutual recognition of their judgments requires, that is also what investors who are slowly fleeing Poland because of your behaviour. [[Voice from the hall: In your day they fled.]] [[Which ones?]] Once with your tail hung up, you pulled out of your mistakes. [[Applause]] You've withdrawn from the legal system of the IPN Act. [[Applause]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Pressure makes sense. Don't put us on the margins of Europe... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] [[Quiet, this is where you work.]] [[Did it hurt?]] ...just get out of what you're doing. Two weeks ago, I presented you with an exact plan to withdraw from the most blatant examples of violations of the rule of law. Do not give citizens, do not give Poles such a salty bill. Stand down until it's too late. Do not lose billions of dollars so that we can pursue our development opportunities. There's still a chance. There's still time. One thing I want to tell you is that you want to give a very salty bill to citizens, Poles and Poles, Poles and Poles. They will also give you a very salty account, and you will be accounted for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: Save shame!]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You'll be cleared by the Poles for violating the rule of law and we'll settle you. [[Applause]] [[Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u297	Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz.15. [[I have a collision, at the very end, I would like to...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Don't disturb me, sir.]] [[He had some kind of collision.]] [[Voice from the room: Trubel.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear...]] Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to remind you that the first President of the Supreme Court, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, has the right to speak also outside the order in an unlimited manner. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] It's time to learn the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To sum up the activities of the Supreme Court for 2017, two basic facts need to be recalled. First, under Polish law, the President of Prof. Gersdorf will be President until the end of April 2020. [[Applause]] ...and appoint Judge Iwulski under Art. 14 § The 2th Supreme Court Act can only be treated as a time-limit, because this is what this provision is about, for example. to go on vacation, with temporary absence. Secondly, according to the law, Supreme Court judges who are currently ruling in the Supreme Court may do so up to the age of 70. If the PiS wanted to change these two facts, it would have to change the constitution. Both are constitutional, cannot be amended by the ordinary law. Just as the ordinary law cannot change the President's term of office, so the first President of the Supreme Court cannot be interrupted. The President, the Prime Minister, the Members of the PiS simply act illegally. High Izbo! These basic facts have been ignored by the current majority, in front of our eyes, the finale of the political assault of the current government on actually one of the last institutions of the state, which can still be said to be independent of the current authorities. By mocking the law, mocking the constitution, the PiS simply implements the Law on Purgatory in the Supreme Court. In the State of PiS, the whim of the President replaces the law, and greed for power and influence replaces responsible thinking about the State and future generations. In recent days, among others, it has been selected. so-called. The jury to the Supreme Court. In certain types of cases, they are to complement the formations of the courts. Unfortunately, the result will be that experienced judges, very often law professors, people with huge experience, jurors, PiS politicians will replace those who are completely deprived of legal knowledge, and even if they have life experience, they lack legal knowledge. The statements of the candidates for jury hearings before the Senate committee are famous: I am currently working in a group of three-year-olds and this is the teaching of life, which is good, what is bad; I have desire and time, I do not know if I am qualified; as far as the law is concerned, I will read it to myself. Dear fellow Members of the PIS! Would any of you like his case in the last most important judicial court in Poland to be examined by a person who, when asked about the knowledge of the law, will say that he will read to himself? Is that really what you want? Probably not. Just as you wouldn't allow open-heart surgery to be performed by someone who isn't a doctor, and when asked about medical knowledge, he said, "I'll read it. This is how the persons selected by the PiS Senators to be jurors in the Supreme Court responded. [[They don't need to know the law.]] [[They don't have to do anything.]] High Izbo! Watching the politicians of the PiS, I feel like you should sit down with your chosen jury in one bench and read the legal issues. Mr President and other activists of the current power camp, I particularly recommend art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Three constitutions... [[A. Five?]] ...who says that the first Supreme Court President's term of office is six years. [[And what Art says. Five?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] I also recommend reading the article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1st Constitution, which states that judges are ex officio. I also recommend recalling one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which states that the law does not work backwards. [[Maybe it's an art. Five?]] Dear Members and Dear Members of the PiS! Once you've read it, you could at least make a bill tomorrow, in one day, that will stop the purgatory in the Supreme Court. You repaired the IPN Act in one day, after several months of stubbornly continuing under the Act, which caused dramatic damage to the image of Poland abroad. Have the courage to do it. It's now, right now, not just when the bill for your political appetite for power turns out to be so extremely high. Let us remind you that Polish people will pay for the violation of these standards of the rule of law by PiS, or actually already pay for them. The bill is counted in billions of euros, because already at the start of budget negotiations in the draft EU budget we lose as much as 1/4 of the money from the Structural Funds. And if the PiS does not stop breaking the rule of law standards, then the currency that PiS will pay for its party policy of taking over independent courts will be Polish security. Those are the facts. It is clear that Europe is already losing patience at this moment... [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] ...to the PiS' disregard for the fundamental principles of the rule of law. The cosmic changes, the fake compromises really in the long run will absolutely not convince anyone. No one in Poland, no one in Europe was fooled by seeing how PiS destroys the independence of the Polish justice system. Yesterday's decision to initiate the procedure on the Supreme Court Act is solely the fault of the actions of PiS politicians who are stubbornly seeking to carry out unlawful cleaning in the Supreme Court. [[Madam, this is a report.]] If the PiS hadn't destroyed the independence of the Supreme Court... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] ...the European Commission would have nothing to do with it. At the same time, it must be noted that the opening of the procedure on the Law on Purgatory in the Supreme Court is the hope of defending the independence of the Polish justice system from politicians. The modern one was the only one who supported the call of more than 150 NGOs to defend the independence of the Supreme Court before the Court of Justice. [[Voice from the room: He's the only one.]] Experts, legal authorities, constitutionalists, former presidents, former prime ministers, also the first PiS Prime Minister, Mr Marcinkiewicz, supported this appeal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I thank all of you from this place for your efforts, for the fact that this procedure has been initiated. Since we are in the Union, the Court of Justice is also our Polish court, and when PiS destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, it is the Court of Justice that is actually the only independent institution that can honestly assess the provisions of the Law on Purgatory in the Supreme Court. High Izbo! Let us stress once again: The only blame for the tense relations of the current government with Brussels is the politicians of the PiS. Poles also share this view. As recent surveys show, 48% Poles see that the PiS government is responsible for the current problems in relations with the European Union. In this case, the PiS failed to fool our partners in the European Union or Poles. [[Voice from the room: What poll? What paper?]] At the same time, it needs to be stressed once again that today all tools to improve relations with the European Union are in the hands of PiS politicians. They are politicians of the PiS - even tomorrow, within one day - they could adopt a law that will stop the cleaning in the Supreme Court. As an example of the IPN Act has shown, it is possible. These tools have you, no one else. In the next steps it is necessary to regain the independence of the National Judicial Council with the removal of political nominates from it. And the third, the last step will be to remove the understudyes from the Constitutional Tribunal and take the oath from the properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[No, because they're nominates.]] High Izbo! In conclusion, I would like to quote an analogy. Politicians who grant themselves the right to remove judges from office remind me of the worst associations with practices that were applied in Nazi Germany. It was there that one of Hitler's main sidekicks Goebbels said this: A strong country must be able to remove unfit officials. This also applies to judges. The concept of indiscretion of judges was born in a foreign world of intellectuals, in a world of hostile nation. I appeal once again to the PiS politicians: consider whether you really want to continue this purge in the Supreme Court and thus join politicians like those who built the Third Reich to be on one shelf with them. Because by removing the Supreme Court judges, that's what you're doing. [[Voice from the room: Pleciech.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[A motion to the ethics committee.]] We citizens who value freedom and democracy will be under the Supreme Court today and tomorrow under the Supreme Court at an hour. 8:30. [[Voice from the room: Here is the place.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Go to Berlin.]] [[Voice from the hall: And to Moscow.]] I would like to thank both the first Supreme Court President and the Supreme Court Judges... [[Applause]] ...for perseverance in defence of the Constitution and legal order of the Republic of Poland. I would like to wish for the same perseverance in the future. Stay strong. Stay strong for democratic, law-abiding Poland. Stay strong for future generations. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You'll end up like Palikot.]] [[What's the problem?]] [[Voice from the room: 2%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u299	Madam, you have not even learned the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Art. 186.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is not the most important thing behind us, not the most important is what happened last year, today the most important is the future, and it is not the Supreme Court, but the right to justice. [[Applause]] Right to justice, which in no doubt by your actions, by your purgatory in the courts and in the Supreme Court, by your pseudoreforms, by your policy, which you bring into the courtroom... And justice becomes a fugitive from this courtroom. Today the future of our citizens is most important. In your actions, you're going through a rough road. As a reconstructive group of sanation, you refer to these wonderful times in your view. Then - also after the May bombing - it took the camp three years to renew the removal of the first President of the Supreme Court of Władysław Seyda. 3 years. This is the same period you're doing today. And then, just like you in your bill today, Sanctification relied on the good of the justice system. Do you know who later relied on the good of the justice system? [[ZSL.]] The communists called when they were doing Stalinist... [[Voice from the room: Together in the government.]] ...cleansing in the courts, including the Supreme Court. History likes to repeat itself. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, there...]] First as a drama, then as a farce. Because a farce, a real farce and a mockery, a mockery of law and justice is what you're doing now. [[Applause]] You guys think you're political sharks, but you're really just lowlifes. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You think that's how you can roam forever. [[You're the one who's behind the ruman.]] But there will be a moment, a moment of justice. The first will be electoral justice, which will account for you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mow you?]] You're very fond of returning to Romanticism, so often yelling about the love of your country. [[Voice from the hall: We just love our homeland.]] I will remind you of the words of our hangman Juliusz Słowacki - to be warned, to reflect, to reflect, that you should withdraw from what you are doing today: 'Polska, Poland!' Then they forgot the word on their mouths, but they knew that God would confess to his sons, and they kept on screaming, "God! Homeland! Homeland.Then God of Moses appeared a bush... [[Voice from the room: Speak from memory.]] ... He looked at the screaming ones and said... [[Voice from the room: What?]] "What's that?'---------------------------------------------------------------------------- [[Ha, ha, ha! Bravo...]] What Poland? What Poland? What kind of Poland under your rule? [[The voice from the hall: I'm sure it's not...]] [[Voice from the room: Ours.]] [[Marshal, don't you hear me?]] Poland divided, Poland divided, Poland torn. Poland infected by you with a disease of hatred. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ours.]] [[Don't scream.]] Poland weak and vulnerable by you. Poland of PiS, not Poland of justice... [[Voice from the room: Poland Piotrowicz.]] [[Voice from the voter room.]] ...and not Poland's law. Today's the day to stand on the value side. Not on the side of one or the other judge, not even on the side of the first President of the Supreme Court, but on the side of the right to freedom and justice, [[Applause]] the right to independence and independence. You have to stand... [[Voice from the room: Behind Tuley.]] [[Can you hear the marshal?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Can't you hear the marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: Pretending not to hear.]] ...on the side of our citizens' right to prosecute justice. I also want to assure everyone... [[Speech outside the microphone]] Let's not worry about the screaming. Screaming is a sign of helplessness and helplessness. Screaming is a sign of weakness. [[The voice from the hall: You're the one who's screaming, man.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: How about quieter?]] [[Vladek, don't yell.]] I also want to assure all those who today in many places in Poland are at the heart of the good of Poland and its future... You have great concern for our homeland. [[Voice from the room: Extraordinary opportunity.]] Do not lose faith in the better future of Poland. We will restore in Poland and the law, and justice... [[Voice from the room: We're doing it right now.]] ...and independence, and independence. [[Applause]] And we'll do it together. [[But who? Who?]] Not the parties. We, the nation, all citizens. [[Applause]] [[Peterovich, go back to Urban.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u301	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, still the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! The President of the Polish People's Party Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz quoted the hanger. Let me start by quoting the word, too. [[Voice from the room: From memory?]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Another hanger, because Henry Sienkiewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, what's so funny? Can't you hear me? If you're so helpless, let someone else in.]] [[Voice from the room: Please draw your attention.]] [[A voice from the hall: Why are you sitting there, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u303	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u304	To paraphrase Henryk Sienkiewicz, a Polish Nobel Prize winner, I will say this: the year 2017 for the Supreme Court was a strange year in which various signs in the sky and the earth announced some disasters and extraordinary events. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the century of the existence of this highly respected institution, things have happened that have not happened since the fall of communism. The parliamentary majority, the government and the president decided to jump on this most important judicial authority in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Fairy tales tell.]] On what pretext? On the pretext of supposed decommunization, which was, for you to know, twice in the case of the Supreme Court, but where was history? This was not achieved in July Ub. Civil society was able to breach. The temporary recollection of the head of state ended on two presidential vets. However, this condition did not last very long. Already in September we saw a draft of the President's judicial laws. I'm afraid it's a great disappointment. Instead of immediate cleansing, it was decided to adopt a different strategy. It was decided to reduce the retirement age for judges of the Supreme Court, to increase the number of chambers and judicial positions, not to fill any until the exchange of the National Judicial Council. Since April, the President of the Republic may issue and amend the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court without the opinion of the College of the Supreme Court. The transitional period shall be 12 months. Even when the composition of the Supreme Court was changed in 1990, when it was effectively decommunised, there was no such transition period. Moreover, for several decades the Supreme Court's Rules of Procedure have been forming its organs, its judges. There was a period in Poland's history when the Minister of Justice created the Supreme Court Rules from above. This period lasted from 1 September 1932 to 1962. Two such regulations were issued at that time: one in 1932 and the other in 1947. I don't think we should be equal to that time. Madam President! Finally, I would like to thank you personally, the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers and all the employees of this institution, who, after 100 years of their existence, have been faced in free Poland with harassments, threats and insults, which they did not allow themselves to face before Polish courts, judges even the rulers of the state of possessor before World War I. May the spark of hope for the better for the Polish justice system not be extinguished tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u305	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Liberal and Social. [[Voice from the room: There's a star.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! Membership! In fact, it's gonna be three years since I'm a messenger. [[Enough women's dictatorship!]] Honestly, I never thought I'd be a witness to action, like my friend Wladek Kosiniak-Kamish said, a bunch of you. I never thought I'd see anything like this here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] In my parliamentary work, I like to talk to people the most. Last time I was in Podkarpack, I was in the PiS bastion. You know what people say? There people say they're still breathing freedom. Yet. Why do they say that? Because for 954 days from 19 November 2015, day by day you poison our air, Polish air. Today you're doing it again. Do you really want, all of you, as you sit here, and this handful of you sitting in your Members' rooms to smell like Russia, Belarus and Korea here? Is that what you want? [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] What else are the standards you're introducing? What else couldn't we do with standards like that? Breaking up a six-year term guaranteed by the Constitution? Can't you read with understanding? Sixth grade, folks. You should have been studying, not playing hooky. [[Voice from the room: We know who didn't learn.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of the islands of freedom and tolerance that one private Member has spoken of, we will have a black hole and shame through you. Shame so big, you'll miss the shame Mr. Yak gave us here. You're gonna miss such a shame because it's gonna get bigger and bigger. Ladies and gentlemen! The information provided by the President of the Supreme Court is of course supported. I'm not gonna talk about numbers because the numbers are down here. You are not interested in these numbers, for you these numbers lie, because only Private Kaczyński tells the truth... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Chairman.]] ...so basically what we're talking about today makes completely different sense. Talking to you about the rule of law is, folks, like playing chess with pigeons. Do you know a meme? [[Voice from the room: No.]] You don't know 'cause you didn't study in that elementary school. [[Voice from the room: We work.]] No matter how well you play chess. The dove's gonna roll over all the pieces anyway, even shit on the chessboard, and be proud of his supposed win. And that's the kind of pride you guys are talking about today. You play with professors, you play with experts, you play with the European Union, you play with Poles and you play with the world. [[Voice from the gym: To lose.]] And every time you roll over the figures, you break all the rules, and then you're just like a dove, proud of a supposed win. But for these deceitful victories, you will one day be paid. [[Don't scare, don't scare.]] I hope that the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union will act as arbitrators and will quickly decide that your winnings are the result of a lying, arrogant game against all principles. And I am convinced that Poles will be able to settle this unequal duel and purify the air that you are poisoning. [[Oh, how weak that is.]] Next year, folks, we're gonna be able to breathe freedom, that's what I told those people in Podkarpacka. [[Voice from the room: Where was it on this Carpathian?]] [[Voice from the room: Where was it?]] And using the minute I have left, referring to what my colleague, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, said, today is the day to stand on the side of law and justice... [[You have to have two recommendations.]] We stand on the side of law and justice, all of us, together with judges, together with all the Poles and Poles who last year... [[Room voice: 70%.]] ...Mrs. Gryglas, together with you, screamed three times a veto and defended the Polish judiciary and Supreme Court. [[Applause]] You were defending him back then, too. Look at me. [[But he's gonna be defending next year.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the Liberal Social Circle, we are in favour of this information. And the state, my dears, elementary school, sixth grade, reading with understanding, constitution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You represent a grid.]] [[Voice from the room: Total fall.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u307	I cannot say how many Members have signed up for questions because there are many, but not one by one, by order of numbers. [[The voice from the hall: Neither can the marshals count.]] [[He doesn't get it.]] [[Voice from the hall: Many, many.]] So I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. And the first question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Krysia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u308	In her report, the President left out more important matters, namely the political activity of the Supreme Court last year, which broke the Constitution. The Supreme Court introduces anarchy in its activities in the legal system. The Supreme Court rejected the basic constitutional principles: Article. 4 saying that the sovereignty belongs to the nation, and not to the judges. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] He rejected the rule of art. 10 - the division and balance of the authorities, and in this regard introduces the principle of autonomy and independence of courts from anyone. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] It rejects the fundamental principle of the interpretation of Polish law - and you know that, because we are both from the law department - the presumption of constitutionality of the established law, which says that until the laws are challenged, the law is in line with the constitution. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] [[Voice from the room: Jokes.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] And you have no right to reject the laws because you are not a member of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] [[Are you in law school?]] [[Some kind of legislative tech school she was studying...]] [[Voice from the room: Where was the question?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: Very good. Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u309	Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u310	Dear Madam First President of the Supreme Court! We respect the report last year, but today, Madam President, the whole of Poland is waiting for the President to appear here and present to the High House and the Poles: firstly, that you are coming to work tomorrow and, secondly, that you will perform your constitutional duties until 30 April 2020. [[Applause]] Madam President! We are very sorry that independent judiciary has met with the brutal world of politics, politics built on semi-truths, propaganda and manipulations. And this was also the conference of the Presidential Minister, whose message was: Professor Gersdorf abdicated. Madam President! We're asking you to do it according to the article. 186 you could now speak and answer that question... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...or did you actually abdicate? [[But don't interrupt.]] [[Voice from the room: Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u311	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. You're welcome. Mr President, please leave the speaker. You've run out of time. [[The president wants to talk.]] [[Voice from the room: In addition to the order...]] [[Voice from the room: Of course it can.]] [[Who doesn't know the rules?]] [[Voice from the room: Madam President!]] [[Applause]] Madam President, wouldn't it be better after a series of questions? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: No, now!]] [[Who doesn't know the rules, huh?]] [[Voice from the room: He still has the right.]] [[Voice from the room: self...]] [[Voice from the room: Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u312	I'm just gonna go to that sensitive question you asked Professor Szczerb... [[Voice from the room: Who?]] Mr. Member. [[Okay, okay.]] I will not refer to what Professor Pavlowicz said... [[Voice from the room: Messenger.]] ...because these are known invectives to me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] As far as my status is concerned, he hasn't changed since talking to the president. I'll come to work tomorrow, [[Applause]] Because the constitution is talking about a six-year term to execute and I have to act in accordance with the constitution. On the other hand, I have appointed you Judge Iwulski, President of the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance to carry out duties during my absence, because I intend to take a leave of absence, which, I think you understand, is mine. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u313	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I am pleased that, however, it turned out that she was right when it comes to knowledge - or ignorance - of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz. As you can see, the professor can speak whenever he sees fit. [[No one's perfect, Marshal.]] Nobody is perfect. On the other hand, we have adopted certain values when we entered the European Union. 85% Poles appreciate our participation in the European Union and also the values that accompany it. One of them is the rule of law - the rule of law that you are destroying right now. You refer to the Constitutional Court, Mrs Pavłowicz. I wanted to remind you that you've already destroyed it and taken over. You've politicized the KRS. You're taking over the court presidents. You destroy everything that builds together the rule of law and the concept of independence of the third power. At the moment, the Supreme Court is, you might say, the last reduction in independent judicial authority. That is why I thank the President of the Gersdorf Supreme Court for these words. Yes, her term of office ends in 2020. This fact understands even the 6-year-old granddaughter of your Senator Bobka. And let us remember one thing: our economic development, our civil rights and our international situation depend on what judicial power we have. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're ruining it all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We know who, we know who.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u315	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! In the previous Supreme Court Act, it was possible for judges of appeals and district courts to be sent to the Supreme Court. The current law introduced a 10-year traineeship instead. In the draft law, the President explained this in this way: this requirement is intended to ensure the powers of the judges delegated at a sufficiently high level. Congratulations only on the idea of sending a district court judge to the Supreme Court with such an internship. But unfortunately, these regulations are already in force. I would like to ask you, Madam President, how do you think you're going to post regional courts to the Supreme Court, which can also represent 30% of the entire Supreme Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u317	Mrs Joanna Schmidt, near Liberalni... Solidarnia? Alone? Social. Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! I would like to ask, in the context of what has already been said here, also in the context of what we hear from the media, about the scale of political cleansing in the courts. The fact that the independence of the courts is being destroyed is already a fact. The judges shall be determined under the dictation of the governing party. Europe has also drawn attention to this issue. At the beginning of the week, the European Commission decided to initiate the infringement procedure in connection with the Supreme Court Act. I would like to ask, Madam President, what this looks like from your perspective, from the perspective of your term of office. Would you mind telling me what's really going on here with the justice system and the staff cleaning? And above all, are there any mechanisms that can already work and which would prevent these political cleansings - those that can be de facto applied since yesterday and which we will also be able to introduce in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u319	Mr Witold Czarnecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad Judge Gersdorf is with us. So I will use the opportunity to ask the question: Where were you, where was your environment, when Poles in court were hurt... [[The voice from the hall: Mother, how embarrassed are you?]] ...when the judges hid behind immunity even in trivial matters like traffic violations? [[Where was Peterovich?]] [[Voice from the room: What about immunity from what?]] It was you led by the Supreme Court who ruled some time ago that the judge could lie in his own defense that the judge did not have to admit that he had committed certain acts. This concerned a minor case of a judge who refused to accept a mandate of 100 PLN for speeding on the road. [[What about Kurski?]] It's not the justice system. It's the co-worker dimension. The judge's immunity is supposed to protect his independence, but that's not immunity from decency... [[Voice from the room: What about your...]] ...and the guarantee of impunity in the event of obvious crimes and offences. This isn't protection against paying a ticket. Even if, as you think, Judge Gersdorf, it's $10,000. zł... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u321	Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was no situation in free Poland that the judge was removed by political authority, but in this House, in this place, the issue of the removal of judges was raised. And the question to the first president is, do you remember if you had any historical knowledge when it was? 61 years ago, in April 1947, a handful of Members of the opposition, then PSL, reported an interpellation on the judicial dismissals of two court presidents, judge Janusz and judge Mierzwa. That's how the Communists fired the pre-war courts. These are the PiS standards. In 1962, when PZPR copied the resolution of the Supreme Court Act to Cyrankiewicz Act, which is a copy of your solutions, there were no votes. And the question to the President: Where in the contemporary world of judges chooses a parliamentary assembly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] North Korea. [[Applause]] [[North Korea.]] [[North Korea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u323	Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I know it's hard for you to say my name, but I'm gonna get through this. Madam President! I thank you for this report, for this information about the activities of the Supreme Court. I have this question: How can one define the government of a country in which judges must ask politicians for the right to adjudicate? How can one define such a system, which from today gave us PiS in Poland? Asking my friends and colleagues from the opposition: do not address this part of the room, they don't decide anything, they just press these buttons. I continue my questions to the President: Please tell me... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sure it wasn't you. ...what will happen when the Court of Justice of the European Union suspends in its ruling the functioning of this shameful law. What will happen to the Polish legal order? How? Then those judges who are illegally pushed out of the Supreme Court are to return to judgment? What about those decisions that will arise in the meantime? Can we even get out of this PiS mess? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u325	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u326	Dear Marshal, Madam President! High Seym! The Supreme Court Act established a jury chamber composed of 36 jurors of the Supreme Court. It wasn't that long ago that we witnessed the Senate electing them. In Poland we currently have about 10,000. The jury. In Warsaw alone there are several hundred of them, and in the Supreme Court there are only 13 positions placed in 36 positions. And here I am asking you the questions of the President of the Supreme Court: How does the President imagine the work of people with secondary education in the Supreme Court, which is a court of law and not a court of fact? Wouldn't judging on the scope of emergency complaints and disciplinary matters for jurors be a task far beyond their competence, even with a relatively large life experience? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u327	Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the president. First: What do you and the judge's community have to say about colleagues of judges who, contrary to common sense, appointed curators for heirs and owners of Warsaw's properties, for people supposedly under 140 years old? [[Applause]] What do you have to say about those judges who accepted attorneys from the Caribbean? Is it therefore true that there would be no wild privatisation without scandalous judicial decisions? [[Applause]] I was shocked by the words that the President said at one of the conferences that the most worrying issue in the reform of the Supreme Court was the matter of the disciplinary chamber. After all, it is an autonomous chamber to protect the integrity of judges and other legal professions so as not to sweep these dark things under the rug. [[The Ministerial Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u329	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! The attack on the Supreme Court is a barbaric declaration of the rule of law in Poland... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and a step towards the exit of Poland from the European Union. It's throwing a glove in the face of the whole European family. Poles must react and react strongly. This is simply required by the Polish state right. Today the eyes of the whole world are again on Poland, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] I have a question. What will you do if you lose to the cretes at the Court of Justice of the European Union? Are you going to take offense and get us out of the Union? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] We want to tell you clearly and clearly: we will not allow you to push Poland out of the European Union. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, sir.]] You've got the last minute to think about it, because you're gonna be in the history dumpster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u331	Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! You have today appointed Judge Iwulski as the temporary head of the Supreme Court because you are planning to begin your leave. President Andrzej Duda pointed out the same way. But I therefore have a question: Mr. Iwulski is 66 years old and, according to information, he made a statement about his readiness to continue office, but not on the basis of the law, but on the basis of the Constitution. Does this mean that the President has recognised the right of judges to apply the Constitution directly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u333	Mr Krzysztof July, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u334	Thank you very much. You hang little thieves, big ones - you bow low. [[Like Marxists.]] [[Voice from the room: It suits you!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This request for fair justice, proclaimed in the 16th century by Nicholas Reja of Nagłowice, is still valid. Judge the thief is still on trial. The judge of the District Court in Szczecin, who was charged with a misdemeanor and at the same time with a disciplinary offence involving theft of property of low value, was deprived by the disciplinary court of the first instance of the profession of judge. [[Voice from the courtroom: And the D.A.'s office is laughing.]] [[Take care of the rooster!]] What did the Supreme Court do? He changed his sentence and decided that he could still be a judge while reducing his salary by 20% for two years. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Prosecutor of martial law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u335	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u336	Madam President! They're looking at you today with the hope of my 70-year-old parents. You can believe me. Or not, but my mother has tears in her eyes when we talk about what's going on with the Supreme Court and you. [[Especially when a judge steals.]] Keep your mouth shut. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Thousands of Poles who stand before the courts with candles look at you, millions of Poles who are at home. Maybe for some reason they can't go to those courts. They're looking at you with hope. You must continue, you must have the strength. In your hope. [[Applause]] Now I say to the judges in Poland, to the thousands of judges: You must continue, you must have the strength, you must have the spines, you must have the hard time. And now I say to Poles: Don't be afraid of them, it's just a temporary embarrassment of Poland. [[Applause]] We will gain power, restore Poland to normal, democratic, respectful of other people. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[The voice from the hall: You're delusional.]] [[The voice from the hall: I'm ashamed.]] [[The voice from the hall: Anger of beauty harms.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u337	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! Madam President, we have a demolished Constitutional Court, we have a politicized National Judicial Council, we have courts demolished by the nominates and the guys of Minister Ziobra. Now we have another attack on the Supreme Court. Tell me, Madam President, who should the citizen knock on, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's gonna be looking for justice, who's gonna want to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Shut up! [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u339	Mr Marcin Duszek, Club Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] What's this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u340	What's this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u341	Where are you? [[Then react.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u342	...remarks on the right side. Look one way and the other, not just ahead of you, because all you see is your nose. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: What is this?]] [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] I'm afraid that's the door this citizen won't find. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u343	Mr Marcin Duszek, Club Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Voice from the hall: Pavlowicz screams all the time and you don't react. What is this?]] [[You're gonna read the rules on what the marshal has to do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Where were you, Professor Gersdorf, when Deputy Minister Marcin Warchoł called for a discussion about reforms, and the participants of the Polish Lawyers Congress ostentatiously left the room, even though the Minister proposed to correct the reform which was a tribute to the judge's environment? I didn't hear you criticize your colleagues at the time for this behavior that was an expression of contempt for Poles waiting for and waiting for reforms. To these Poles, to the whole society, just as to Minister Warchoł, you turned your backs. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, because I don't. And today, the president says, "Do I have a time?" Yes, Professor. Each of us against the passing time is equal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What a philosopher.]] And the Members and the Judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Time for the constitution.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u345	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! Madam First President of the Supreme Court! High Izbo! It's a sad day in this House of Parliament. [[Voice from the room: Merry.]] Unfortunately, once again we are witnessing that not only Members of the opposition are forbidden to make statements here, but also to apply the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, but it is also forbidden to speak and report for 2017 to the first President of the Supreme Court. [[She did.]] There is no limitation of speaking time in the Rules of Procedure. That's sad. We have not been given the opportunity to hear this report, which often points out to us, legislators, the legal gaps that we are supposed to fix. Then why do the PiS Members vote against the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on the Supreme Court Act? That's because they're political motives. That's because today we hear that you think Poland is yours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] No, Poland is all Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u347	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It was already there.]] [[Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: But it can go again.]] Oh, no, I'm sorry. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! I very much congratulate you on your term of office. At the same time, I am absolutely sure that today you embody democratic values, European values, the values of open Poland that we need so much today. Prof. Matczak talks about what Law and Justice did to the Constitution. What Andrzej Duda did, our president... [[Voices from the hall: Not ours. Not ours.]] Our president, this is our president still. ...this is a constitutional crime. He committed crimes on the democratic system of Poland. [[Applause]] This is unacceptable. We in Poland today need constitutional patriotism. This is a major challenge for civil society, but also for you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very nice, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u349	Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u350	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Sociological studies show that Poles are not satisfied with the activity of courts, including the Supreme Court. Polish society supports judicial reform because it cannot accept that matters in court, so important for people, are dealt with at a very slow pace, even for years. Therefore, my question is: What steps did the President take to improve the work of the Supreme Court? What was the average time to deal with cases in the Supreme Court against other Supreme Courts in Europe? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u351	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! 350 years ago, John Locke wrote that there is no freedom when the judicial authority is not separated from the legislative and executive authority. Why is the PiS bombing the Supreme Court today? There is proof of this, ladies and gentlemen, in this book, which is, as it were, an annex to the report that we are considering today. Namely, it is a collection of public speeches of the first President of the Supreme Court and a collection of opinions which the Supreme Court has issued over the last 2 years, well documented, based on the Constitution, European legislation, judgments of European tribunals, Polish scientific achievements... [[Written by who?]] ...who disqualifies all the reforms that a good change is making in Poland. I wanted to thank the president... [[Voice from the hall: For evening walks.]] ...that she defended our constitution and art. 45 in particular. Everyone has the right to a fair, impartial and independent court. Now it's the law... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u353	Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! You have presented us in your report the number of cases decided by the Supreme Court, but this situation will change, ma'am, because it has entered the Sejm with a draft bill which states that the Supreme Court will now decide all cases... [[Voice from the room: Once a year.]] ...because there will be no pre-trial in case of cassation complaints. This does not change the grounds for filing a cassation complaint, so it will only be a matter of infringement, but the court will not be able to verify it in this pre-trial procedure and will have to refer everything to the hearing. [[Voice from the room: And rightly so.]] Unlike common courts that investigate formal deficiencies before bringing the case to court. How will this affect the work of the Supreme Court? Especially since we're about to have an avalanche of emergency complaints. Therefore, everything will have to be put to trial, where the Supreme Court judge does not rule on a single person, only [[♪ The bell ♪]] in increased composition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u355	Mr Wojciech Buczak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I have two precise questions about the effectiveness of the disciplinary case law of the Supreme Court, while asking for a precise answer. First: How many cases of infringements by judges have been found and what consequences have been drawn against them? Two: In how many cases was the expulsion of a judge by profession, precisely because of these violations of the law? I'm asking for a precise answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u357	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Now it's gonna be loud.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u358	Listening to this debate, I think I am also in favour of judicial proceedings as soon as possible. I have a trial myself with one lady who's been delaying this process for a year and a half, and that process can't start. This isn't the court's fault. But the speed of the court's work is not the only important thing. It is important that decisions are issued quickly, but the independence of the court is very important. I think when you go to court, you'd also like to feel that the judge is independent. [[Voice from the room: That's what we agree on.]] Let me remind you that independence is independence from out-of-court bodies and institutions, independence of the judge towards authorities and other judicial authorities, independence from the influence of political factors, especially political parties. We used to have Sejm marshals who were apolitical. How's it looking today? You see, the speaker giggles with the Members. That's what the courts are gonna look like. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Art. 199 of the Constitution states that the first President of the Supreme Court is at the head of the Court of State. We know how many of your high officers are afraid of the State Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u359	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u360	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I listened attentively to the President's speech, but I did not find any reference to the signs of pathology affecting the judicial environment. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] [[The voice from the room: It was about the PiS after all.]] Hence my question: I would like to know the opinion of the President, how you feel about cases of hearing on the phone or cases of common thefts... [[No one's been on the phone. That's a lie.]] ...the kind of judges they used to do. It's about drills, flash drives, money from the counter. Madam President! What is your position on disciplinary matters over the years, as a result of limitation or acquittal? And finally, what action did you take as president in order to combat the signs of pathology in the judicial community? You have the opportunity to answer this question here and now, which is why I'm asking you for an answer. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u361	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Councils of Polish universities' law departments, including the University of Silesia, adopt resolutions condemning the attack on the Supreme Court and solidarity with judges. You guys aren't doing anything about it. Shamelessly, brutally like a tyrant, you destroy democracy. Do you really believe that if you are court-martialed by political nominates, you will not be judged in the future for destroying the state? Do you really believe you're gonna rule forever, and you're gonna get away with this whole thing? Have you calculated how long you've got enough money to buy community support? Think about what you're gonna do when the money runs out, the support is gone, and it's time to bill you. What are you gonna do? Where will you turn? All you have left is the East. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u363	Member Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! First of all, dependence, independence of the judge is linked at the moment with such general independence. And we should consider corporate independence. Is this corporate independence preserved? Because the judge who gives the judgment depends on another judge, his promotion depends on the judge who then approves it. Has this situation been reflected in the activity of the Supreme Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But they are legislators.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u365	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u366	Today's statements from the President's Chancellery suggest that the President had nothing to do with what was happening to the Supreme Court, the purge in this court, the removal from office contrary to the constitution of the first President, because the term of office of those 40% Supreme Court judges supposedly expire by law. But that's not true. Prof. Matczak wrote that according to the article. The 39th Supreme Court Act, neither the President nor the Prime Minister, unfortunately, will wash their hands, will not escape what is on them, because they must sign the date when the status of Supreme Court judge expires. There has to be a countersignation of the Prime Minister. It's not just you who passed that bill that the president and your government wrote, you will answer. The truth is, you're all responsible for... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u367	Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To all those who have doubts about compliance with the Constitution of the Supreme Court Act, I recommend a comment on the constitution of Professor Lech Gardocki, who is hard to suspect that he supports... [[Voice from Garlicki's room.]] ... Garlicki, who is hard to suspect that he is supporting the current changes in the justice system. For him, the term of office and the transfer due to retirement age have nothing to do with the status of judge. On the other hand, I would like to ask the President about a sentence that is absolutely shocking to me. It's about a printer from Łódź who didn't get the protection of the Supreme Court and was convicted of refusing to print material for sexual minorities. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And if the Church refused, then what? The church has its own printing house. The church has everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u369	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u370	Madam President! When you started your speech today, during which you discussed the report on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017, you stated that it had come to work under specific conditions - so you gently referred to the fact that there were these continuous legal changes concerning the judiciary - but you did not say that 2017 was a specific year mainly because there was a slanderous, lying, full of contempt for judges. [[Applause]] I have a question for the president: Do you know such cases in history, perhaps beyond the 1930s, when Hitler's nationalism was born, cases of such a campaign that would be full of contempt, slander, lying? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u371	Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Oh, God...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a very wise saying: which is not forbidden by law, forbids shame. I'm talking to you, Chairman. Please recall the Supreme Court judgment of 19 March 2014, because one of the Members said: we will restore normality. What kind of normality? I remind you of that sentence. An envelope, 50,000 in it. zł, Mrs Sawicka: we will be making ice cream in health care. Is that the normal thing you're talking about, President? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What nonsense are you talking about?]] I wanted to ask you very clearly. Come here and tell me. [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] All of Poland heard about this sentence. 50,000. zł in an envelope and, ladies and gentlemen, making ice cream on health care. Is that what you want? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A 65 thousand. Beaty Szydło?]] Madam President! Please refer to this judgment. And, Madam President, please also tell me - I'll keep it down - how many times have you acted as the President of the Supreme Court [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about changing the bill so you can... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: One. Once.]] [[Thank you, sir.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A 65 thousand. Beaty Szydło?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u373	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u374	The most important legal act in Poland is the Constitution. Its records are valid without exception. The Constitution can be changed, but only on the basis of the Constitution, which is a different way than parliament. And the Constitution cannot be amended by an ordinary law, it can only be changed by a qualified majority, which PiS does not have in the Sejm. Every violation of the Constitution is a violation of the law. I know that, the opposition knows that, Polish and Poles, especially those who protest before the courts in defence of the independence of the courts, know that. Madam President! Why is this elementary basic knowledge lacking for PiS Members and President Duda, who swore and should stand guard of the Constitution? Professor! You are the first President of the Supreme Court in accordance with the Constitution until 30 April 2020. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Tell me what problems, challenges will be faced by the Supreme Court in the years to come, how you will organise your work in these particular anti-democratic ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] conditions created by... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Retired. He'll be retired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u375	Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In 2003, the Supreme Court decided that issuing empty invoices was a fiscal matter and should be applied to it by the Tax Criminal Code, not simply by the Criminal Code. In this way, for 13 years before the rule was amended, the VAT mob and tax fraud criminals did not have to fear the consequences. Hence my question to the President: Why was the Supreme Court on the side of criminals for so long and not on the side of the law, the state and the citizen paying taxes fairly? [[Voice from the room: Because you didn't file a bill on this case.]] Why didn't the Supreme Court show, signal any changes to the law, thus protecting the VAT mafia that robbed the state budget and its citizens? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u377	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u378	Dear Madam First President of the Supreme Court! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is, in fact, a debate about values, and it is worth recalling the words of Montesquius in the work of the Law Spirit: there is no freedom if the judicial authority is not separated from the legislative and executive. Then Montesquius writes: Thus the rulers who wanted to rule despotically always began to unite in themselves all the offices. But the Polish nation, the sovereign, listening to the words of Montesquius, included the principle of division of power in the constitution, included the principle of independence of judges and the intransigence of judges. Today, all of Poland is looking at you, Madam President, and is counting on you to be relentless in defending these values. Answer again, will you be able to do it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u379	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u380	Dear Madam First President of the Supreme Court! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information about the activities of the Supreme Court in the previous year is considered in a special time, on the day when Law and Justice is finally holding a trial with independent judiciary, with an independent judicial system. You break the basic law, break the constitution, illegally deprive the first President of the Supreme Court of your position, knowing that the term of office lasts 6 years de facto, you illegally remove the judges. You do this against the opinion of most legal authorities, contrary to the opinion of most societies, against the law and against common sense. The question is, why are you doing this? What is the real purpose of all this? Why are you destroying one of the foundations of the rule of law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u381	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth comparing two bodies - the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal. Because the PiS treaty illegally dismantled the constitutional court and now tries to do the same with the Supreme Court. And what will the consequences be? The PiS Constitutional Tribunal, whose illegally elected President Julia Przyłębska, instead of working, is in Berlin, has stopped actually working. The year 2017 was one of the worst in the history of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is the worst year in terms of both the number of cases he has received and in terms of the number of decisions he has given. But how does the Supreme Court work? Despite the constant PiS prosecution, harassing the President, the courts, the billboard campaign for millions of gold vilified judges compared to last year, even the difference between the number of cases brought and dealt with is positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u383	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! Actually, today is the funeral of the legal order in our country. Law and Justice are smiling, but really, ladies and gentlemen - because it's hard to discuss with PiS - we citizens will pay for everything. We will pay for putting ourselves outside the European Union. This can already be seen on possible issues relating to the budget of the European Union. PiS doesn't care at all. When it comes to doing your business - bonuses for your own, trough+ - you're perfect at it and you're definitely not gonna lose the gold on it. But we will all lose, lose local governments, lose Poles, new roads, daycare because of your insolent actions when you really destroy democracy. Madam President! I'm addressing you. The Poles really need a loud, strong... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u385	Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u386	Madam President! Today, the eyes of all Poles are on you. And I'm glad we heard about you going to work tomorrow. I assure you that this is important for both us and for Poles. You are the first President of the Supreme Court for the next two years and for the next two years we will all see you as the first President of the Supreme Court. Therefore, I have a question, because there has been such a situation that Poles who are protesting massly under courts throughout Poland can read the constitution better, they can understand it better than members of the governing party. And I would like to ask if we can count on the next Supreme Court report to include an educational position that would show that some activities are being conducted for members of the ruling party... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u387	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u388	Grand Lady of the Supreme Court! High Izbo! The Nazi propaganda champion was quoted here today. But maybe it's worth repeating the additional question he has said that a lie that has been repeated 100 times according to some people becomes true. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't become true. And even though you are presumptuous about destroying the sovereignty of Poland, the Polish system, you are already thinking about it - and that is what you are planning - how to dismantle the final court here, I will tell you that you will not succeed. Today, a few of your speeches have already shown a shoe that you will rule forever, that what you will do will rule permanently. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Madam President, I have a question. Please provide us with statistics on disciplinary proceedings, because this was not the case for you in the report because of a time limit incompatible with... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u389	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! This is a historic day, we are not debating the report of the Supreme Court for 2017. Today is the court and the assassination of the Supreme Court and the constitution. [[Ultimate, apparently.]] Madam President! All of Poland expects you to tell the Poles and Poles that the constitution has been broken, that the article has been violated. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. That's what the Poles are waiting for. Poles know that it is not possible to fool around, that death and taxes are certain. And don't be so smiling tonight. You broke the constitution. This is the Court of State. And the president expects the whole of Poland to make this statement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u391	We've exhausted the list of enlisted Members. Would the president like to speak now? Please, the first president of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of questions, and I don't know if I can answer them. The first, which has been rained on several occasions, involved disciplinary proceedings. Unfortunately, I can't give you statistics right now, because I don't have this report in my hand, and I've been summoned suddenly, ad hoc, to report. I don't have the exact numbers, but I'm going to give you these statistics. I know two judges have been removed from the profession, that's all I remember. [[Voice from the room: quite a group.]] [[Stop mocking me.]] Not for so many years, just this year. I report on 2017 and my statements relate only to 2017. [[The Member does not understand this.]] As for the number of professors who are employed as judges of the Supreme Court, there are about three or four of them in each Chamber. This changes because some go to rest, others, young ones, come. And these professors teach at college. Many Supreme Court judges lecture for the lower courts and it cannot be said that they are lazy in this regard. How do I imagine sending regional judges to the Supreme Court? Well, technically, so are the other delegations. I do not know, but mostly they will be posted to the Disciplinary Chamber, so that it will be easier. Besides, Minister Piebiak said there's no difference between the judge of the district court and the Supreme Court. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Are they in the courthouse of purgatory? At the moment, I can't tell you there's a forensic cleanup. They're started in common courts... [[But they are.]] ...disciplinary actions or preparation for disciplinary proceedings. However, universal courts are not subject to me in this respect, so that I have no knowledge of this. Mr Czarnecki asked me where I was when the judges used immunity. The judges have the right to enjoy immunity, as Members have the right to exercise immunity, and of course this immunity may be lifted. Where are the judges elected by parliamentary assemblies? In non-democratic countries, I'd say. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The jury is provided for in the new Supreme Court Act. For now, these jurors, the social judges, have been chosen not enough. I figured there should be 36. I can't imagine how those jurors are. will rule in emergency actions, because emergency actions concern legal problems, stricte Legally, and as we've heard in these speeches, they're not exactly lawyers and they're just gonna learn the law. At this level of abstract thinking, such teaching is not possible, you have to finish a full study and learn 20 years so that you can reach such a level. As far as Judge Iwulski is concerned, Judge Iwulski is the President of the Chamber of Labour and Social Security. He is an excellent lawyer, an outstanding person - he educates judges, he often had lectures, until he was president, because now there is no time - and an outstanding commentator. He has a very good commentary on the Labour Code in his work. President Iwulski asked the President for further ruling, basing his proposal on the Constitution. The question was whether the president would accept the right to apply the Constitution directly. I don't know, you have to ask the President, not me. I don't think he recognized that right about me. The disciplinary verdict of the thief to the judge is, according to Mr Lipc, unfair. I absolutely do not judge judgments and have no influence on them. [[Because you're not from the PiS.]] Who do you want a citizen to report to if he feels he is being wronged if these courts are incapacitated, let's say, to a large extent? There's still an ombudsman, but he has to go to court later. Where was I when Minister Warchoł proposed a discussion in Katowice on judicial reform? First of all, I was in those Katowices. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Secondly, I didn't leave the room and turn my back on the Minister. The Minister, on the other hand, was really very naughty at the time, extremely naughty at the time. I have to survive this somehow. I'm from a very long-lasting family, my grandmother lived 101 years, so I hope I can survive this. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] As far as the case law of the Supreme Court is concerned about the speed of proceeding against Europe, I think it looks good, because the table is about halfway through this speed of action. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen that the Supreme Court in 2017 has consistently ruled in part. The Supreme Court should count 94 judges, but on average it counted 83. Now they're gonna get fewer and fewer. So that's a very good result, because we don't have a full cast. In addition, we have not used delegated judges for several years. It was a tradition that the Minister of Justice sent judges to the Supreme Court and these judges served as judges of the law, because the transition from the universal court to the Supreme Court is a completely different way of ruling. This result last year, I think, is very good against the background of the fact that there have been fewer judges, but he certainly won't be so good next year, because I already see in the partial reports that delays are moving at a higher rate than last year. If we do this, it is a lack of pre-court, of course this is the legal structure we had at the very beginning of the cassation complaint and this lack of pre-court has slowed down the settlement of cases to 4 years. Mrs Borowiak asked if there was a hearing on the phone. I wanted to say that this was a report on the activities of the Supreme Court for 2017. I didn't fight pathology because I don't have it in the Supreme Court. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The judges are independent, the court is independent and there is nothing to do with corporateism, which you constantly and constantly talk about, mixing up these concepts, because corporations are lawyers, lawyers and lawyers, where affiliation is mandatory, and this is a corporation. The judges don't have any corporation. [[Applause]] The judges are free and I do not know the second profession which would be as independent as the judicial profession, and I have passed all the legal professions. As far as my status is concerned, I've already answered. My status is based on the Constitution. The Constitution is an overriding law and the law cannot change that. [[Applause]] That is why I did not consider it appropriate to speak to the executive authority, the President, with all due respect to the head of state, to allow me to serve as a judge, because this means subordinateness and to that, swearing on the constitution and adding as a believer: 'So help me God, I cannot accept because I have to do what I have committed myself to.' [[Applause]] As far as this status quo is concerned, I believe that I am the first president until 2020, but the President has not given me a decision declaring that I am no longer the President, so I think he still considers me to be the first President. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo!]] Mr Gardocki's comment concerns many years earlier, and it certainly does not concern such a situation that the term of office of the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court can be interrupted by such legislative action, which is that we first change the retirement age, adjusting it to the age of the President-in-Office, and then we say that this President can no longer be President. In normal legislation, such actions are possible, but in the future, and cannot affect current judges. [[Applause]] As for the judgment concerning the printer and this LGBT problem, I do not even know the reasons for this judgment, because, as I have said many times, I have no influence on the judgments of the Supreme Court. And this ruling is from this year. [[Applause]] The slander campaign for judges in general is a terrible thing that has happened. I do not know whether you are aware of this - the authority of the judge is being undermined to the limits of the possibility. Members who talk about the fact that judges take bribes are on the phone, also under... If there are such individual situations, it cannot be announced. [[Voice from the room: But it must be condemned.]] [[No, report to the D.A.'s office.]] Dear Members, Don't think that this undermining, destroyed authority of the judge will be rebuilt immediately if they sit there, in the judges' togs, your judges. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: What does it mean: your judges?]] This authority has been destroyed so that its reconstruction will last 20 years. [[Voice from the courtroom: What does it mean: your judges?]] [[Voices from the hall:]] Those who will be nominated right now. [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing!]] I don't think it's embarrassing what I'm saying, Mrs, no, I'm not embarrassing, [[Applause]] Because the new judges - I believe yours, because as your term of office they will largely... [[Voice from the courtroom: You're their judge, then.]] I am not their judge because Komorowski appointed me, and I am Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Lech. [[They don't respect Lech, they just buy him monuments.]] [[Voice from the room: They don't respect anyone.]] Such slanderous campaigns This is an unprecedented fight against justice. As I say, the consequences will be tragic, and I am keeping you from it. I'm not a politician, but I really do warn you that you won't have any authority to do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Turn around. There you go, there you go, there you go. Because I have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u393	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What: thank you?]] You're running out of time. Thank you very much. [[If it's uncomfortable, it turns off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u394	Then I apologise to all my fellow Members. [[Game in the O.R.]] The constitution has been broken. [[Applause, some Members get up]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u395	The committee rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, will now speak. [[Some Members chant: Free courts! Free courts! Free courts!]] I'd say fair courts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[But not in your rule. Not in your rule.]] [[Not in your rule.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the Justice Committee, I would like to address some questions, as well as the statement of the first President of the Supreme Court. I will not answer these manifestations of legal demagogy and heresy, which in most of the questions were included. I want to emphasize... You are still referring to the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The 3rd constitution, which refers to the six-year term of your first president of the Supreme Court, but this article is not separated from other articles. Yes, it is. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 speaks of the inevitability of judges, and this concerns the course of their service, but Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 gives the legislator an ordinary delegation to determine when the judge is going to retire. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Your first president of the Supreme Court is also a judge and according to the Supreme Court Act because of her age... [[Are you a gentleman?]] ...may have applied to the President for an extension of the time limit for retirement. Why doesn't the president here respect this Supreme Court Act... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But she did!]] ...and otherwise, as far as the Supreme Court Act is concerned, the same law, applied to the President for additional employment at the university? Mr President has given your first president permission to do so. So to one extent, you believe that this law is binding, and in another, if it is applicable, that it is unconstitutional. [[But what are you talking about?]] The President is also a judge so that the professional ethics of the judge... [[But this isn't a court of law, this is a report.]] [[But this is a report!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's for the president to just apply those rules to you as a judge. Unfortunately, the President doesn't apply it, the President is involved in public activities, even political activities... [[What are you talking about, man? What are you talking about?]] ...and this concerns the year 2017. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] That is exactly how the president behaved in 2017. [[That's a lie!]] There is a set of rules of professional ethics of judges adopted by the National Court of Justice on 19 February 2003, is a special... [[Thank you, sir. Thank you.]] This applies to the rules of procedure of the judge outside the service. § 16 says this: The judge cannot create even appearances - even appearances - of not respecting the legal order. [[Applause]] Is that the judge's way of doing it? [[Are we talking about the report?]] Whether he respects legal order or doesn't respect legal order... [[Voice from the room: I don't respect!]] ...and becomes part of the political game, and you're brazenly using it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But what are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u397	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm was informed about the activity of the Supreme Court in 2017. [[You've gone a little beyond the committee's report.]] [[Same as the gentlemen.]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Request for the removal of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (print No 2689). Group of Members pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have requested that Mr Marek Kuchciński be dismissed from the function of Marshal of the Sejm and that Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer be elected as Marshal of the Sejm. I ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Schetin to state the reasons for the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motion for a vote of distrust, for an appeal, is never particularly pleasant. Sometimes it's a reason, an excuse to debate, to express your views, your differences of opinion. The marshal's appeal is always difficult, especially for someone who was also a marshal. But we're doing it a second time because the circumstances are special. We're talking about basic things, the most important things. Today, in a moment, some of us, those who can, will go to the Supreme Court to protest and defend the courts, [[Applause]] the independence of the courts. It's important to us. Parliamentary democracy and the possibility of an open debate are equally important. So, briefly, to say the most important thing. Marshal of the Sejm, Primus inter pares, first between equals, one of us who manages, organizes the work, but knows that he is elected by the Sejm, that he is responsible before the Sejm. He is the most important, supreme official of the Lightest Republic, the second person in the country. This is a great challenge for each person chosen, for all of us who were marshals after 1989, but also in Polish history at all. It's a special place and a special character. Unfortunately, this is the second time I have said this from this speaker, Marek Kuchciński, Marshal Kuchciński, turned this function into a farce. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the truth. [[Applause]] Why did this happen? Must it be that a Member, a politician with experience in the work of the Sejm Bureau, in the Senior Convention, has worked with us, with me, then with Marshal Kopacz, with Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, Sikorski, saw how the Sejm Bureau works, how parliamentary democracy should work, how should be treated by opposition Members, those whose rights must be fought for and guaranteed... This is the role of Marshal of the Seym. We've been showing it and doing it for years, trying to do it, but he hasn't learned anything from us. [[Voice from the room: And luckily.]] I'm sorry to say this. Why is this happening? Why is this happening? First of all, to be a marshal, you have to be a character, you have to be a responsible, subjective person. You have to listen to the High House, all the Members, have time, patience, be able to listen to representatives, heads of all the clubs. It can't be that you only listen to one person, just President Kaczyński, because it's in the case of Marshal Kuchciński. [[Applause]] He listens and realizes the expectations of one man. That's why we see it, it's a constitutional violation. Today we were talking, there was a whole debate about the Supreme Court, about the independence of the judge, but this assassination of the constitution, the assassination of the independence of the court, the assassination of the rules, the gagging of the opposition are the expectations of President Kaczyński. That's what he expects from the PiS, that's what he expects from the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate. Marshal Kuchciński simply gives him this, fulfills the expectations of President Kaczyński. What's so weird and repetitive about these behaviors? In fact, we've seen this in the past few months when there was a famous conflict in December. First you eliminated, President Kaczyński did not accept journalists in the Sejm, they disturbed you, you talked about it often in the media, that you were disturbed by journalists in the corridors, that they were lurking, that you were bothered to work. They bother you to enjoy the fact that you have the majority and you can do anything. They're still asking questions, not like on public television, they're having second thoughts. [[Applause]] What happened? Simple, remove journalists, that's where it all started. Who did this? Marek Kuchciński. He threw journalists out of the gallery, introduced them to the new House of Poselski, because that was the expectation of Jarosław Kaczyński. What happened here on that platform? Indeed, there must be a small distance and little understanding, no distance and no sense of humor at all, to say that music eases customs, to exclude Mr Szczerba and to lead to the greatest conflict in recent years in the Sejm in the country of the European Union. We all saw it. It's ridiculous and embarrassing for Marshal Kuchciński, but he did it. What happened next? The column room, the scandal you led to. It was sanctioned by Kuchciński. You broke the law, you broke the constitution, you cheated, you didn't have a quorum, and you voted on the budget. [[Applause]] Everybody saw it. After all, when the prosecution dealt with this from our report, there were fights, after all Poland, the whole Europe saw it, everyone saw it, what was the answer of Marek Kuchciński? That surveillance was lost, that you couldn't look. It's just a disgrace, him and yours, because you were there with him then. Shame. [[Applause]] What happened next? A variant of the Sejm's surroundings with barriers, fences from Poles, from voters, then it started. You keep it up, it's the Marshal's decisions, there's fences and barriers all the time. Yet now there is the idea of a few meters of fence to get away from the Poles. What are you afraid of? Poles are afraid, Poles are afraid, and of course Kuchciński does it. [[Applause]] As far away as possible. I remember, for years, for decades, the Seym was a normal place. Of course, it was an important part of Polish democracy, but here people came, fans, going to the Legion game at Łazienkowska, passing through the Sejm area, it was obvious. A place that's friendly to everyone. Today it's not because you're armed to the teeth and you're defending yourselves because you're just scared, you're scared of people. [[Applause]] What else was bothering you? Disabled, disabled children with parents. It didn't fit either. It didn't suit President Kaczyński. What happened? Well, that's reprehensible - the excesses you've been doing. Yet you sent the Marshal's Guards to your parents - picking up banners, pushing. What did it look like? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After all, it is one great shame, and it is also the decision of Marshal Kuchciński, he takes responsibility for it. How embarrassing are you? Shame! [[Applause]] Finally, after all this was over, after you pushed the protesters out, I do not know whether it was revenge or at the request of President Kaczyński, but also Marshal Kuchciński did it - you closed down, you cancelled the meeting of the children's parliament. Revenge on the kids. What did the kids do to you? They're really innocent. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] I thank the City Hall, the University of Warsaw, that the meeting could have been held there. But it's all a sum of fear and resentment. This is one part I could talk about, we could talk about it for hours. The second thing, very serious, is the difference between the treatment of Members of the opposition and Members of the governing party. Marshal Kuchciński knows all the names of Members of the opposition by name: Skowrońska Member, Pomask Member, Nitras - symbol of opposition resistance, Tomczyk, Rutnicki. He's got everybody's name on it. Did he ever pay your attention by name, or did he ever say anything to you? Never. No. [[Voice from the room: He didn't have to.]] Of course I do. Of course he had to... [[He couldn't.]] [[Voice from the hall: We are cultural.]] ...but he's afraid of you, [[Applause]] 'Cause the president says don't move you. Then we'll move you. [[Applause]] But that's just the fact that it has completely different measurements. [[A voice from the hall: This is a punishment for you.]] Unpunished names, what Jarosław Kaczyński used to say to us, rude, vulgar statements... [[What about Mr Nitras for me?]] ...Chamish, vulgar statements by President Kaczyński... [[Who said that to me?]] Maybe you're a marshal. Do you want me to calm down? There you go. [[Applause]] [[The Marshal is deaf.]] Vulgarly, in rudeness President Kaczyński spoke to us - he did not say words to him. In no mode. Are you turning off the microphone today? You turn off the microphone today, Marshal, and why didn't you turn off the Kaczyński microphone then?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u399	You still have five minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u400	Uh-huh. Another year and a half. Another year and a half. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u401	We'll see. [[Voice from the room: One and a half more years.]] It doesn't seem like it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u402	And that's it. As far as these 18%s are concerned, The adult Poles who voted for you, you are their representatives, we respect it as an opposition, but I want to say that we are different here, we are from different places, but we all have a electoral mandate and we want to represent and represent the remaining 72%. Really, you have to deal with it. That's right, that's the role of the opposition. There is also a question of different treatment, which is also important: promotion, departures, revenge on Members of the opposition. Once again, Mr Nitras is blocked from going to the OSCE meeting. Why? We don't know why. That's why. He doesn't get permission, he gets consent. Mr Macierewicz's departure to Częstochowa, U.S. Częstochowa, Pennsylvania - 25 thousand. zł. We're gonna check all these bills so you know. [[Applause]] Those who sign them, and Marshal Kuchciński, too, will be responsible for each of his signatures. It's good to see you. [[Voice from the room: Don't scare.]] And now it's like every name... Here I can mention the names of many marshals after 1989 - I knew all: Chrzanowski, Płażyński, Zycha, Borowski, Cimoszewicz, Dorn, Jurka - or from us, in these last terms: Ewa Kopacz, Bronisław Komorowski, Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska or Sikorski, I too. Everyone... These are the most diverse people, from different political parties, from different groups, but yet very hard to fight for the subjectivity and position of parliament, completely different from what is happening now. What we've seen over the last two and a half years is antithesis. the work of the Sejm, and I say it with full responsibility. [[Applause]] And it's Marshal Kuchciński's fault. [[Where is he anyway?]] And that's responsibility, that's responsibility. Breaking the law, breaking the constitution, what's going on in court today is pushing your knees, it's proceding, letting you do it, not doing it any other way, not doing it in committees. It's the role of a marshal not to allow such things. It is the marshal's duty to guard the interests and subjectivity of the opposition, it is the duty of the marshal. I'm talking to you now: it's your duty. [[Applause]] We hear that this is the end, that everything is already done, the most difficult issues are settled, the Constitutional Court is settled, and the Supreme Court is also on its way to self-destruction. And now, I understand that your Marshal Kuchciński will have a career in Brussels. I would like to say very clearly - I think on behalf of the entire opposition - that he will not escape from here and will not escape responsibility. [[Voice from the hall: Tell Tusk.]] I say it and I say it to everyone: there will be written deeds and conversations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I say this to each of you, and above all to Marshal Kuchciński. He must remember that. And it's not like what you did in the Seym is... It's like a lens. You can see what you're doing in the country. You can't see it, we don't see it all, we don't see it that wide. But here you can see everything: how you behave, how you prefer your own, how you promote your own, how you give money, how you convey, how you destroy opposition, how you treat others, how much can someone who has the PiS card, how everything can, because he's from PiS. And that's what I'm trying to say very clearly is that it's just... [[Voice from the hall: Good night.]] ...is a classic piss policy. And it will end just as your parliament ended and your government - your fall here, in Parliament and in Poland. [[Applause]] And I want to say that when it comes to this Putin principle, that Parliament has to be its own, that we have to have the power, that we have to enforce that we have to turn off the microphone right now, we would never think that people from the opposition who act on behalf of the clubs should turn off the microphone. [[You gotta be kidding me.]] I know some people enjoy it, but... [[Voice from the room: But we remember how it was, how you turned it off.]] No, but don't shout, or Marshal Terlecki will calm you down. [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] Marshal Terlecki will calm you down, won't he? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Exactly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] When he calls, it's the ones who bother him, just like the Member. And now I want to say that it's always important in the Seym. Parliament is important because it precedes... The relationship to parliament always precedes history and always precedes reality. And so it was in the case of the silent Seym - he overcame the end of Polish democracy. Separation Seym [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was ahead of the fall...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u403	Thank you very much, sir. [[But let him finish his thought.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u404	... Poland and the fall, the beginning of the partitions, the partition process. That's why I'm very clear...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u405	Madame, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u406	But I wanted to finish my sentence. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u407	You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: But just a moment more!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u408	And that's why you're the marketplace, you're acting like a marketplace. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] That's great. That's great. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u409	Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] I've extended your time. Thank you very much. [[This is a scandal, really.]] You've had time, and you're still reading from your postcards. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[How embarrassing are you, Marshal?]] You're welcome to conclude.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u410	What I'm saying is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u411	Does your club vote for this or for this? That's the conclusion. [[It's not on behalf of the club, the rules are bowing down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u412	But this is a vote now?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u413	No, he'll be here any minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u414	You've got the wrong score, Marshal. I would like to say that we are proposing to Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer as Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] This is a formal application. I believe that such a person - with experience and character and with class - needs Polish politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u415	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition's motion to appeal the Marshal of the Sejm is a normal thing in democracy. There's nothing unusual or special about it. The law of opposition to such proposals is the basis of parliamentarians. When we talk about a model example, a respectable, democratic opposition procedure has every right to criticize the marshal and point out his mistakes. Today, however, we are considering a different situation. The application for cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński submitted, among others. A PO who has the weakest mandate to criticize the current marshal. Why? Because Marshal Kuchciński compared to your standards and practices is the personification of democratic power in parliament. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Examples.]] [[It's not cabaret night, woman.]] If I wanted to mention all the examples of opposition Members' behaviour in this parliamentary term and show how your marshals acted in previous terms, I would need not 5 but 50 minutes, and that would probably not be enough. That's why I'm going to refer to the two charges you raised in your motion. By the way, both of these charges are crazy. Let's take a look at the first one. This allegation is de facto a pretension to the marshal that he voted on the subject of current information at the 64th session of the Sejm. What kind of hypocrite do you have to be to remember how you acted on opposition initiatives, to tell the marshal that he put the subject of current information to a democratic vote in the High House? [[Voice from the room: Which information didn't you get?]] [[We never broke...]] Let us remind you of how you treated the opposition's voice. Year 2012. The Marshal of the Sejm is Ewa Kopacz and introduces, called by the media, a sejm shredder. Ewa Kopacz decides that it is not the Sejm who will decide on further work on the projects. It finds a legal loophole and any inconvenient draft for your authority refers to the Legislative Commission for an opinion. There it is decided by 30 committee members, where, of course, the Platform has a majority. What you write in your proposal is a mockery not only of the voters, but also of this House. Eight years of your rule in the Sejm is a constant disregard for the opposition, a constant legal loophole in the style of a sejm shredder to take away the opposition's fundamental rights. Eight years is ignoring voters, it's constantly rejecting citizens' applications, it's a constant interruption of the opposition's Members by turning off the microphone. [[Voice from the courtroom: It's true.]] Let's move on to another objection from the opposition's motion. You regret that Mr Nitras has been punished for his outrageous conduct in this House with a reduction in his salary. I ignore the fact that the Member was punished by the Sejm Bureau and not by the Marshal. [[And Winnicki didn't stay.]] Your Vice-Marshals know that very well. They didn't tell you that? [[And how did our marshals vote?]] It just shows how far-fetched and ridiculous your accusations are. But I wanted to refer to something else and I would say this: You should be grateful for treating Mr Nitras so kindly. [[Our gratitude knows no bounds.]] He should be excluded from the proceedings on several occasions for his conduct. How does Mr Nitras behave? [[Better than Mrs. Pavlowicz.]] He doesn't just interrupt speeches, he doesn't just interfere with speeches. President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Nitras often behaves aggressively and hyperactively. [[Voice from the room: Maybe he's on something.]] Let's remind November 2017. Mr Nitras is yelling at the marshal, harassing, apparently crashing the session of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: It's mobbing.]] Marshal Kuchciński is extremely understanding, although such a Member should be excluded from the meeting. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will vote against the opposition's proposal not only because the allegations raised there are absurd, but also because Marshal Marek Kuchciński conducts his deliberations calmly and prudently. [[We have to go to confession.]] Despite your upheaval and your notorious obstruction, and despite your constant violation of parliamentary norms, the marshal is trying to alleviate disputes and treat Members like Mr Nitras with great understanding. The opposition may be upset that its constant interference with the deliberations and frequent non-plausible jumps do not result, and the leader of the deliberations cannot be provoked. I'll remind you of how many times you've screamed at us contemptuously: Win an election, you'll be in charge. We won. You're the only ones still having trouble accepting that fact. [[You don't have much time left.]] [[Just a little more.]] That's why you're making all the fuss, all the anger, all the aggression. Dear Opposite! You think democracy is only when you rule. Disappointment that this is not the case is difficult for you to accept, as is the fact that you have lost the elections, but it is really time to accept the decision of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, we are debating the proposal to dismiss Marshal Marek Kuchciński, a marshal who in the history of Polish parliamentarianism will sign up as a gravedigger of parliamentary debate, an opposition gag, a small, scary man without honor surrounding the Marshal's Guard, with great satisfaction squandering public money. That's the truth about Marshal Kuchcinski. Mr. Marshal, you're not afraid, you come down to us, we're not gonna do anything to you. Welcome to the front. As Marshal of the Sejm, you should uphold the rights and dignity of the Sejm, while you do not respect the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator or the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And your behavior removes the Polish Sejm from its dignity, which should guide it. As Marshal of the Sejm, you should give the floor to Members on matters covered by the agenda, and in the meantime you prevent us, Members of the opposition, from taking the floor in the parliamentary debate. You are publicly punishing us for fulfilling our parliamentary mandate and thus representing voters, Poles and Poles, in accordance with the powers which the Constitution, laws and regulations of the Sejm give us. You're punishing us for fulfilling our parliamentary duties. You're punishing us because you're weak and with your weak PiS colleagues you're afraid of the truth, just as you're afraid of children you won't let in the Seym. [[Applause]] You're just afraid of them, kids from primary school. Scandal! You are afraid of the truth which Poles and Poles tell you at your meetings. You punish them too, ridicule them and humiliate them. You order the police to write down their records to intimidate them. Why are you doing this? Because you're weak. You think you're going to silence the nation by using repression. You think that's how you're gonna choke us into a fight. We will fight for free, democratic, normal Poland and you will never take that energy away from us. [[Applause]] As Marshal of the Sejm, you should ensure that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the seriousness and agenda of the sitting are followed, while you accept the behaviour of your guru, Mr Kaczyński, who, without any procedure, enters this pulpit and insults Members of the opposition: treasonous faces, scumbags, murderers. Such rude words of Mr Kaczyński do not respect the importance of the High House. The use of such statements in the High House is unacceptable, but for your business, Mr. Marshal, you accept that. As Marshal of the Sejm, you should take care of the budget of the Sejm Chancellery and spend public money with great care. Meanwhile, you, like the government of Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki, are squandering public money, Polish and Polish money to the right and left. The Supreme Audit Chamber in its report indicated that the PiS in 2017. he paid himself over 9 million prizes independently. These prizes are in your pockets. By comparison, in 2014 and 2015, the Central Offices were visited by 1200%. less money. You stole from Poles. When are you gonna return that money? [[Applause]] I'm curious about the result of the Supreme Chamber of Control at the Sejm. We hear all about your wastefulness, Mr. Marshal: squid, clams, shrimps, seafood mixtures, caviar, 23 tons of meat. Nearly PLN 2 million for food delivery. And I think it's the most recent case, a 40-page album with pictures of a highly respected marshal from a trip to Lithuania at the price of PLN 750 per piece. I think it is the most expensive publication in Poland, and it is also from the taxpayer's money. As Marshal of the Sejm, you should work for Poles and Poles, first of all, watch over the creation of a good, just law, while you of the Sejm have made your small, private kingdom, in which like King Julian, a lemur from one of American cartoons, wants to rule over everyone and everything. To this end, you and your friends from PiS equipped the Marshal's Guard with weapons. For this purpose, you have increased the employment of this Marshal's Guard, and you have made a fortress of the Sejm, which is only short of wire. All in order to create a friendly law for Poles and Poles in the Sejm. Fortunately, you failed to equip your swords and parade weapons so that your guards could salute you even more. Mr. Marshal! The platform's position can only be one thing: finish your vagina, spare the shame, but leave the marshal's staff in your place. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u419	Mr Grzegorz Długi from Kukiz'15 will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not go back to the past, because some of the points that Mr Schetyna mentioned here relate to the previous proposal. Let me remind you that one such conclusion has already been made. However, some rules of res judicata should apply, so I will not go back to those December and column reminders, because it is not the most important at the moment. With all personal respect for your marshal, it is not so that we repeat the same accusations, depending on who is in charge, means that Marshal Kuchciński is no different from his predecessors. This difference is that the Sejm, which is the highest legislative body for at least 500 years or even more than 500 years, at least since nihil novi, as it turns out, loses its face this time, ceases to be the subjective authority of power. Unfortunately, the face of this fall of the Seym becomes a marshal. [[Applause]] Why? I think the best example of this is what happened not so long ago, a week ago. A week ago it was shown very clearly that the Sejm had nothing to say that the Sejm had no meaning. Some decisions have been made that the Seym was only meant to seal. Art. 123 of the Constitution was clearly broken when urgent procedure was applied. And the marshal is required to examine whether the urgency procedure is justified or whether the formal conditions of the urgency procedure are met. Mr. Marshal is to examine whether there was even an urgent resolution of the Council of Ministers. To this day, I ask whether such a resolution was. How could it be if the government didn't get together if the government didn't even know what was going to happen the next day at the Sejm? Then, Mr. Marshal, [[Applause]] You are responsible for the violation of the Constitution and humiliated not only the House, humiliated us all as Members, humiliated our country. That wasn't allowed to happen. And just because the idea, the thing that had to be dealt with, was important, important, doesn't explain it, because the good intentions of hell are paved. Therefore, breaking the basic principle of the subjectivity of the Sejm is a sin that is a mortal sin. The same is true of the wage issue. I do not want to tease the members of the power group who have cut their own wages here anymore, but this also shows that it was not here that the decision was taken. And you're responsible for that, Mr. Marshal. The mode should not be a matter of political order, the mode of discussion is a formal issue, not a political one. And, Mr. Marshal, this is not the way to proceed. Nor must opposition projects, in particular constructive opposition projects, be treated differently from those of their own political group. [[Applause]] You can't do it like that. It is not only about the freezer, but also about the mass referral to the Legislative Commission only so as to really hinder the behaviour of the projects that citizens are waiting for. If they are bad, correct them, but do not freeze them or send them to the committee to freeze them. Unfortunately, the same is true - and I am sorry to say this - of different Members depending on where they are sitting. This is unacceptable. I appreciate your marshal joke and your sense of humor, because some of the mutterings that come to us are even funny sometimes. However, it is not funny to treat Members unequally. It's really not funny, and it's not funny. Mr. Marshal! The lack of subjectivity of the Sejm or the loss of subjectivity by the Sejm justifies this request, justifies the application made by the total opposition. The only thing that defends you is the second part of this proposal, namely that your successor is to be respected by me by your politician, who, however, is to be respected. [[Applause]] I don't think she really wants to apologize right now. So this shows... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha...]] ...a certain appearance of all this fun. After all, the Civic Platform does not really want Mrs. Lubnauer to be Marshal of the Sejm. So let's be a little honest here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] [[But what are you saying?]] I'm convinced Mrs. Lubnauer doesn't want that either. [[Sit down right now.]] So let's go back to the beginning, do the reset and start acting like the real Sejm. But unfortunately, that also means the need to replace the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u421	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! I need to adjust the platform to a higher level, if you don't mind, to my own height. [[Joy in the Chamber]] High Seym! Dear Marshal, Dear Marshal! First of all, it must be said today that this debate should take place with a slightly different seat of the Marshal. Mr. Marshal, your seat is a chair. 270, it's about here. Meanwhile, you, accustomed to the fact that your entire political life is number two, sat at 494 which belongs to the rear rows. But unfortunately, Mr. Marshal, since you became head of this Sejm, the second person in the state, you are no longer number two. You need to learn to be number one, make decisions and bear responsibility. That's what I miss most about you. Because it is because of you that the Polish Sejm is the dwarf of parliamentarianism today. Thanks to you, the marshal chick is no longer used to open the session. She serves as an opposition baton. Same with the marshal's chair. This is no longer the place from which there is a pluralistic discussion, this is the place to hunt, and the game is hunted by Members of the opposition. It is thanks to you that 11 times during this term of office, Members of the opposition have been punished in various ways. They are deprived of their rights and are also deprived of other natural privileges in this House, which is the opportunity to speak, to submit formal proposals. But, above all, this request for your appeal today is a motivated scandal that took place during the 64th session of the Sejm, when one of the opposition clubs exercised its fundamental right to request current information about the government's operation, and in the extremely important issue of the rule of law, the link with it of EU funds. You refused, creating a precedent, this right to one of the opposition clubs - it was the Civic Platform - and thus you rejected a certain unwritten tradition of this House, which made everyone alternately entitled to receive such information from the government. You are also the author of numerous other successes, among others. In 52 seconds, you were able to cut 10 applications. You also have some achievements in interior design. I refer here to the curtain you hanged, in such a deep gray color, as gray as this Sejm, which in no way counts with a large banner placed next to it informing about the 550th anniversary of parliamentarianism of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] I have received such an invitation from you. But I'll tell you, I don't accept it. Thank you very much, I am not going to attend the anniversary of something that is already no longer the Sejm which the Third Republic knew. [[Very good.]] Your decisions are often a trigger for various crises. It was December 16th. This was also the case on numerous occasions when you cut off discussions by robbing them with your comments. I therefore believe that, in the current situation, it is very well justified to request that the function of Marshal of the Sejm be passed on to the responsible person, to the mature person, to the person who is able to respect the rights of all Members, to the person who will not be the Marshal of the Sejm, to the Marshal of the Sejm. And that's the kind of person the president is. Catherine Lubnauer, [[Applause]] I therefore believe that the most reasonable approach to this long episode of your office would be to resign. Of course, this must be done by voting. Referring to your successive, numerous successes, although mostly they can be included in the menu in the cafeteria, because it's probably the only part of the Sejm that is somehow functioning today... [[Voice from the room: It's closed.]] ...or, referring to the release of the album at the price of PLN 750 per play, in which you can see your lovely pictures, I think you should simply be replaced by someone responsible, someone who will bear the burden of being a marshal of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u423	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Unfortunately, smallness, weakness, complexes, lack of distance to the surroundings. These are the words best characterized by the style of governing this House. And here's what I'm gonna tell you: privately, you seem like a pretty nice person, but the weight of that chair just crushed you. You have a selective view of this room and you have a selective view of the Members sitting in this building, and they all, me, my colleagues, but also your colleagues, have exactly the same rights provided by the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, because we have all been elected by our citizens, as we are sitting in this building, in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u425	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another request for cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński and no conclusions are drawn, no conclusions are drawn by Marshal Kuchciński. That's not really a conclusion. only for the cancellation of the Marshal of the Sejm, who is clearly not doing well, because this is also a proposal expressing opposition to the style of government by your formation here, in this House, and throughout Poland. This is a proposal expressing opposition to such conduct, which limits and prevents the resolution of cases in Poland, in the Polish house, which you so often ask for. In fact, Marshal Kuchciński is merely the embodiment of everything that his political formation is doing today. Today there is no Marshal of the Seym, this is a fake. The marshal's dummy and the Sejm's dummy. And so you want to celebrate 550 years of Polish parliamentarianism today. So? And that's enough. Today, the Sejm is not used for decision-making, this morning was a discussion, this is not a place for decision-making, this is a place for approval, or perhaps even better: confirmation of the President's decision. [[Applause]] There is no self-determination and self-decision here today, chosen in the free and democratic elections of Members. Your actions are such a mixture of hypocrisy and hatred. The delusions, because you promised a democratic package, an hour of questions for the Prime Minister, and what is it? There's a mic shutting down, there's still punishment for Members, you're doing it with such a pathological ease, but it's probably because of your fear. The more punishments, the bigger your eyes are, your fear. This is your action concerning some of the opposition Members, the liking of some of the opposition Members, headed by Mr Nitras and in no way responding to the raging river of rudeness flowing from the right side of this room. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Not reacting to the river of rudeness towards us who speak on this platform. This mixture of hypocrisy is also embodied in your decisions. You're afraid of any debate, you're setting time limits for debates so no one can see them. We have recently tabled a request for a state-of-the-art debate. You are afraid of this debate, you do not want to organize this debate, you do not want to take up and it is hypocritical to say: Polish matters are settled in the Polish house. There is no better home here than a parliament to settle matters and decide about Poland. You're so hypocritical. [[Applause]] And hate? Well, hate in you guys sucks. It stinks every time we perform, and it stinks at those who think otherwise and say otherwise than you, and you are the personification of it. It's a statement of a violation of the importance of this House... If we stood like this and got away from emotion a little bit, it would turn out that you should punish yourself first, because you are not only violating the seriousness of this House, but you are ridiculing this House, and you are violating the seriousness of Poland. [[Applause]] You immerse yourself with your political group of the Sejm in the gutter of hypocrisy and hatred. Today, one can wonder how you function in this position at all, how you act. You're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, you're a blinker, In fact, you are not the most guilty of this situation, the most guilty is the one who cast you in this role. You don't play her well, you don't get an Oscar for her, probably Gold Raspberry. The list of charges brought against you here today is as long as your hair used to be long in the hippie days. [[Applause]] And then they said they were calling out. Mr. Penelope said he was so faithful. As a marshal, you should be faithful to the nation, and you are only faithful to the president. You're gonna have a place in history, but it's gonna be a place in a dumpster of history, very sad. [[Applause]] [[2%, Vladek.]] Today we cannot in any way say a good word not about you as a man, because we have no doubt about it, but we cannot say a good word about the first of all equals. Because you're not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will vote in favour of your appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u427	Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Liberal and Social Members, will now speak. [[Rysiek's watching.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! Perhaps you're sitting here, and you don't even know what's going on here. Perhaps you're shocked that the rats and mushrooms that your party and you are fighting have dared to raise their heads and file another appeal. You're dismissed, you're a deratization and defusing specialist, because I think that's what you're called, Mr. Kuchciński. You said yourself, you're skinning and defusing. And at least you should be dismissed for those words. Those words were disgraceful. [[Applause]] The function you perform is not just any function. This is a post after the other person in the country, after the President. [[After the first one, after the first person.]] And you use that vocabulary. A second person in the country, that is, you, is expected to join, not share. A second person in the country is expected to reach out, not bite. The other person in the country is expected to be patient, which you lack every time. Another person in the country is expected to be able to go out and talk to people about anything, even uncomfortable. And what happened in May in Jedlinsk near Radom? You spoke beautifully about the Prime Minister, about Vata, about how fantastic you are, about the evil opposition. And when the question came up about people with disabilities, what did you do? He's gone. He ran out the back door because you're a coward. [[Applause]] Let's go. You were booed in Nowy Sącz, exactly the same way when there were questions about protesters in the Seym. But the real bomb went off in Sanok. There's a woman who wanted to ask you why you're not responding to a protest that's in the Seym. What happened? You recommended that a police officer write it down. For what? From the article. 51 of the Code of Offences, i.e. an article on disorderly public policy and public scandal. It is you, Mr. Marshal, who is disturbing the public order with your conduct, and it is you, Mr. Marshal, who is causing his behaviour to stumble. And that's why you should be canceled. [[Applause]] But let's get back to the Seym. On June 11th, shortly after you gave another show of harassment to my colleague Mr. Nitras, TVN24 journalist approached you and asked for a comment. And what do you say? Don't bother me now. Marshal, I remind you, you work here, you understand? And the Poles and Poles pay you for it. This is your job, and if a Polish woman or a Pole cannot come to you and ask you questions personally, then a journalist does, and it is your dog's duty to answer that question. You work here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] Mr. Marshal, I always thought it was only Jarosław Kaczyński who was a coward, but cowards sit here and you're just another coward. You're even afraid of children and young people. You have cancelled the Parliament of the children and young people in the Seym, an event with a very beautiful tradition. Are you afraid of what young people have to say? You're afraid of young people, older people, women, men, people with disabilities. You're a coward. This is unbelievable at all. You're afraid of everything. But you're most afraid of Kaczynski because you lost because... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u429	Mrs Kuchciński, we are debating a proposal to dismiss Marshal Kuchciński... [[Please don't disturb me!]] ...not Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Please don't disturb me!]] If you wish to scream, I would like to invite you. [[No, I'll talk until you stop!]] Yeah, in the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u430	Time. I can say Mr Kaczyński, no problem. And referring to my colleague Wladek Kosiniak-Kamish - yes, I also wonder where your hippie soul is. It's not like you don't forget to look inside for it. There's a song: Light, you carry it inside you, it won't go out, no matter what you want. You just know what? I just don't think you can do it at all. That's why you know what you should do? You should go for those curtains you suspended the moment people with disabilities were here. You just don't belong here, you're wearing a suit that makes you crazy, and everyone's laughing at you. And for this 550 years of Polish parliamentarianism you are the biggest shame of Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]] [[Abortion, abortion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u431	Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The symbol of this term of office of the Sejm will be the blocking, already from 8 months today, of the Act. Stop abortion, the Anti-Abortion Act, freezing it, the procedural games which the ruling party is leading, and, on the other hand, the adoption of the Act at the request of the Prime Minister of Israel, pushing it through the Sejm, the Senate, the President's signature in 8 hours. 8 months, during which almost a million Poles who signed up for this project are sent to a tree, and 8 hours for the Prime Minister of Israel. This is a symbol of legislation in this Seym, under your rule, during this term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! Very often during this very term, in which there is so much emotion, in which there is so much effort, so much wind into a patriotic corner, so many heavy words... [[Voice from the room: What corner?]] ...so many heavy words fall from this speaker, there is such antagonism. And the question is, what have you guys done over the last three years? What legislation did you give Poland and Poles here? [[Voice from the room: Tragic.]] Sloppy legislation, legislation that needs to be constantly improved. This House, as never before, has ceased to be the Chamber of reflection, any serious discussion, substantive discussion, a substantive reflection on what the Polish state is to look like, what are the most important challenges facing this country. If the Poles estimated that in previous terms these buildings in the Village functioned as circuses, then you made this Sejm a circus masterpiece. The biggest proof of this was the vote last week, or farce: in 8 hours, for the Prime Minister of Israel, without debate, without correction, without thought, also without public debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Moreover, this extraordinary mode in which you very often push the wrongly written laws - even if sometimes the intention is not the worst - is not justified in what you actually do. Well, the biggest failure of yours, the fundamental failure of these three years, is that you did not reform you thoroughly, fundamentally. You act exactly according to this 1990s TKM maxim, which is your authorship. This is the heart of these three years, the heart of the company's management, your people's offices according to the BMW principle - passive, mediocre, but faithful. You've wasted your chances of real education reform. What happened is a waste of a chance to restore classical education, to abolish the dictatorship of tests, to eliminate educational pathology in schools. And you're juggling school types. You have wasted your chance to make a real return in the economy, because today, economic growth, growth of Mateusz Morawiecki, this is, ladies and gentlemen, work for Ukrainians, for Indians, this is the results of international companies: French, German, English, that is 20 million PLN for JP Morgan and that is 20 thousand PLN. Poles in 2017 who went back to the British Isles. This is your economic growth. [[How much for Rydzyk?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we do not touch is the same in every field of state life. Are we dealing with a real reform of the special forces? No, the quality's getting worse. Are we dealing with the real strengthening of the security of Poland when you change the head of the General Staff when you employ officials in the MON who do not know each other in the army? These examples could be multiplied. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't learn anything from the '30s. The 1930s, and especially 1939, showed Poland and Poles that, first of all, you should never argue with Germany and Russia at the same time, secondly, you should not trust the assurances of overseas powers, thirdly, you should not enter into disputes between powers, but guard your own interests. You have broken all these rules and you are still preaching with great satisfaction how safe Poland is for your governments. Worst of all, you haven't created a framework for real system human resources exchanges, including generational exchanges. You did not launch mechanisms that would make students of the best directions at Polish universities go to public administration today. You didn't do anything like that. Your power is populism in the worst sense of the word. Populism is in general a tool that is used by all parties in democracy. It is about simplifying so as to reach a certain type of voter. But you, carried out for these eight years, celebrate power for the power itself, power as Byzantium, power as a catch-up. I will tell you what will happen after these governments: the downgraded authority of all state institutions, the discorded society, the very large disappointment of the patriotic, national, Catholic electorate, the disappointment that results from such mediocre results. Unfortunately, Marshal Kuchciński, as head of this House, is also responsible for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u433	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min 46 hours 21 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the electoral code law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration of draft electoral laws for consideration. I ask Members to take their seats. [[Game in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask Members to take their seats. [[Game in the O.R.]] The question was asked by Robert Winnicki. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a question about this change in the electoral code. How is it that you've been fighting the Civic Platform rhetorically for so many years and then presenting a project that creates a duopol, a PO-PiS? You just create a PO-PiS and support this kind of change the Civic Platform, you save, you shake hands with the Civic Platform. That's the essence, that's the point of this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are deceiving your constituents if you claim that the Platform was misruled because you are probably preparing again, as in 2002, for a coalition with the Civic Platform. You've always been on your way, only rhetorically different. And unfortunately, the project of this ordination also shows this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u435	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 2660 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. For - 166, against - 221, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for the cancellation of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Let's move on to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] According to Art. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm dismisses and elects the Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members in one vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... [[...in my workplace, the card doesn't work, so I have a very big request to abstain from voting... thank you very much for your understanding... standing up and voting.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the request to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Republic of Poland and with the choice of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer for this position, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. 146 voted against - 233, with 29 abstentions. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] The Sejm rejected the motion to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm and the election of Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer as Marshal of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science (Prints No.2446, 2563 and 2563-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to present an additional report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2446 contained in Seym printing No 2563-A. The Sejm at its 64th meeting on 14 June 2018 in accordance with Article 9 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2563 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to examine 89 amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 14 June 2018, proposes that the High Sejm adopt Amendment No 1 to be put to the vote together with Amendment No 8, Amendment No 2, 5 and Amendment No 6, which should be put to the vote together with Amendments No 9 and 11, Amendment No 7, which should be put to the vote. with Amendment 10, Amendments 12, 13, 14, 16 and Amendment 19, to be put to the vote with Amendment 88, Amendments 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 31 and Amendment 35, which should be put to the vote with amendments 36, 37, 40, 42, 44 and 47, and amendments 43, 45, 48, 49, 50, 53 and amendment 55, to be put to the vote with Amendment 76, as well as Amendment 56 and Amendment 57, the adoption of which will also imply the adoption of Amendment 14 to print 2447, Amendment 58, to be put to the vote together with amendments 59, 60, 64 and amendment 72, whose adoption will imply the adoption of Amendment 25 for print 2447, amendments 61, 65 and amendment 66 to be put to the vote with amendments 68 and 71, amendment 67 to be put to the vote with Amendment 83, Amendment 69, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 83, 85 and Amendment 86 to be put to the vote along with Amendment 87, whose adoption will mean the adoption of Amendment 21 for print 2447, as well as Amendments 88 and 89. The High Sejm must reject Amendments 3, 4, 15, 17, Amendment 18 to be put to the vote with amendments 20, 21, 24 and 84, and amendments 25, 29, 30 and 32 to be put to the vote with amendments 33, 34, 38 and 41, as well as amendments 39, 46, 51, 52, 54, 62, 63, 70, 80, 82 and 84. At the same time, I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, print No 2564-A, on the government draft law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2447.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u437	Member, this is not the point, it will be in the next point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Is that so funny?]] [[Yeah, that's funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u438	I'm sorry, we discussed them together before... [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] ...but in that case, I'll move on to the substantive issues. The amendments approved by the committee contain the powers of the university board, in particular if the High House accepts Amendment 1, the Council will only give an opinion on the university's strategy and report on its implementation. The Senate will approve them. Non-university members will be able to form at least half of the board, so not necessarily the majority of the board. This is a matter regulated in Amendment 2. Departments were listed among the types of organizational units of the university. Amendment 26. introduces the provision that the performance of the academic teacher's duties constitutes an individual creative activity within the meaning of copyright law, which is essential in determining the amount of tax due. Amendment 28 regulates the issue of scientific leave. Amendment 34. regulates the issue of fees, in particular blocking the possibility of raising them. Amendment 57 regulates the evaluation of the scientific acquis. The amendments also guarantee wider powers of students and PhD students in the selection of university authorities and guarantee the student government to finance its activities and provide conditions for its functioning. Many of these amendments meet the demands of the academic community when working on the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u439	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2563. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the first minority proposal, the applicant's preamble proposes a new wording of the third indent. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. The question was raised by Mrs Joanna Schmidt. It's near Liberal Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! My amendment concerns a recital, a very important part of the law, because it reflects the spirit of the values of the academic community. And so, as part of the consultation, which lasted almost a year, there were 10 congresses throughout Poland, a preamble has been developed, which is beautifully referring to these values, which says that universities and research institutions carry out a mission of special importance to society, and after amendments we have: universities carry out a mission of particular importance to the state and the nation. What do you have - here I am asking the Law and Justice - with this word "nation"? You have a national exchange agency, a National Freedom Institute, a national security service. In 1958, in the time of a deep commune, also in the Law on Higher Education, in the introduction, there appeared the cultivation of national culture. I stress my amendment precisely academic values, such as citizenship, humanism, [[♪ The bell ♪]] democratic values and tolerance. And that's what I'm asking for, an extension to the preamble.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u441	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 40, against - 392, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal, the applicant's preamble proposes a new wording of the third indent. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The preamble plays a very important and multifaceted role in the legislative act. It is therefore important that it properly regulates the most important issues. It could be observed that this passage was subject to a certain evolution. First of all, innovation was emphasized, and then culture was appreciated. I think it is extremely important to have a real impact and an impact on society when it comes to universities. Apart from the economy, apart from culture, social life. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u443	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 170, against - 259, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 1. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With this bill it will be as with the President's ear: with the government amendments you will vote in favour, but you will not be happy, and with the opposition's amendments you will vote against, but you will cry. When we propose our first amendment, we would like to stress that the aim of scientific research is to seek the truth. I hope that you will consider this, and not only questionable freedom of education, education, scientific creation, and above all respect for international ethical standards, as the Ministry of Science and Higher Education wishes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u445	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 202, against - 229, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal, adding paragraph to Article. 6, applicants propose that the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science should be responsible for the implementation of the State's scientific policy. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is bad, it is harmful to regional universities above all. These changes, which it introduces, will lead to the collapse of Polish science and education in the perspective of not a month, year, but a few years. This is an obvious matter. Prime Minister Gowin drove around various cities, towns, also universities, convinced, boasted that what he was doing was good, but in the bill he did not want to accept responsibility for the fate of Polish science and higher education, although he managed to partially guarantee it through regulations which he would issue. In this amendment, we propose that the law directly prescribe the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education for the implementation of scientific policy, so that this is clear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u447	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -51 against -380, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 7 1 The applicants propose a new wording in the introduction to the calculation. Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The need for the provision we propose is linked to the fact that the higher education and science system in Poland also includes various institutes operating on the basis of separate rights and other foreign entities operating on a continuous and independent basis. If they are integrated into the Polish education and science system and draw from this system, for example, through various grants for research activities, it is necessary to state clearly whose scientific policy they are implementing. There should not be scientific institutes in Poland... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I have such a request, please ask the Members to be kind enough to interrupt their conversations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u449	I ask Members to listen to the Member who is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u450	In Poland there should be no institutes that do not operate according to the scientific policy of the State, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and subject to an opinion of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u451	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. In - 47, against - 381, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The question was asked by Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 6. The minority proposal concerns Article. 7, which refers to higher education and science actors. We're gonna have to offer you a mouth-to-mouth. 2 plus paragraph. 3, which reads: The Academic Sports Union, a nationwide association operating under the Act of 7 April 1989, operates for the benefit of the physical culture of the academic community and physical activity among students. Why the AZS? AZS is the oldest and largest student association. It was founded in 1909 and thanks to its rich history it became the most numerous student organization operating at Polish universities. The biggest AZS stars in the past were such famous names as Halina Konopacka or Waldemar Baszanowski. Today to the AZS [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... 42,000... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u453	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working!]] [[It's not working!]] Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 192, against - 240, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 by adding point 11 the applicants propose that the main tasks of the university should be to carry out creative activities for the provision of education. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This change is seemingly small, but the lack of it shows the true intentions of the applicants. Each higher education school should carry out creative activities, as they indicate the modernity, up-to-dateness and quality of its education inspiring students to undertake research activities. The failure to accept our amendment will prove that you agree with the division of universities into worse and better - the division that is proposed in this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u455	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Part of the Members: It doesn't work!]] [[Voice from the room: It's not working again.]] [[It's not working!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 46, against - 382, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals of 9th, 10th, 13th, 84th and 88th. We will vote on these proposals together. The question was raised by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The disincentive of some Members proves that they really represent themselves and not voters. [[Applause]] This is simply sick - what is happening here today in relation to this law. This amendment, which we are proposing, is to break up with the anachronistic model of the professional university proposed by the Minister, in which professional universities will not carry out research. There are some universities in small towns in Poland that are very important from this point of view, that they carry out unique research activities. The Minister has proposed an anachronistic model of a vocational university which is only an educational establishment and not a research establishment or applied sciences, which is why I really ask you to reflect on what you are voting on, because the directives you have received do not prove that you are doing this in a good way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u457	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. minority proposals, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. In - 45, against - 382, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. 15 The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 7. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Liberal and Social Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We propose to delete this article because you divide the academic community into worse and better universities with these records. Thus, a university which, as a result of the evaluation of the quality of science does not meet certain criteria, becomes a practical university from the vending machine. So if it does not meet the criteria, it is not a better university, it is automatically the worse one, or practical one. We do not agree to this division, because in order to meet the conditions of a practical university, we also need to meet a number of criteria. And this is what you have pointed out many times in your speeches, as well as Prime Minister Morawiecki in his exposé, so let us promote universities with practical profiles, and let us not just take them seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u459	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 193, against - 237, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 15 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 8. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u460	Mr. Marshal, near the Liberal Sociales. Prime Minister! Once again, I appeal to the Prime Minister. I know that voting scenarios are already being distributed, but maybe as part of the self-correction, you will prepare records that will include some similar mechanisms at the level of the law, as in the case of academics. Perhaps it is worth introducing categories of discipline here. This would undoubtedly help future students choose their courses of study. We can't punish universities for being unacademic, so they'll be practical universities. Once again, I stress that it was very important for both the economy, for the development of our country and for the students to make a distinction between universities that educate academically, focused on the scientific development of students and staff, and in a practical manner where cooperation with entrepreneurs and the economic and social environment is essential, as well as the number of students' practices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u461	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] The Member does not ask a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 196, against - 237, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 17 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of paragraph. 2. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 15th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 193, against - 227, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 15th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 17. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law introduces an organ such as the university council, which will serve only to extract money from the university. His powers are simply none. None really. The opinion could now also be dealt with by setting up a stakeholder committee. On the other hand, the university council, as proposed by Minister Gowin, will only serve to ensure that those who are part of the university receive money, very large money, except for one person, who will be a student. It will be excluded from this possibility. This is unconstitutional, which is why we propose a solution that will protect you from the charge of creating another legal bubble. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u463	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -51 against - 378, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 16th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 18. The adoption of this proposal will render the 1st amendment futile. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u464	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an amendment that gives Members of the vote a showcase, so together, without looking at the will of voters, to get out of the trouble of what tasks the university board should have. As a result of this amendment, on which I hope that you will accept it, the Council will gain powers similar to the powers of the audit committee in the company, and its activities will contribute to the professionalization of university management. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u465	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 194, against - 233, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 6. This amendment is linked to the 8th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question was raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This amendment concerns inter alia. a strategy of universities to identify ways to stimulate scientific, educational, cultural, economic and infrastructure development. The amendment may be good, but the whole bill is bad, because the project destroys the dynamic development of universities established after 1989, which are developing very well today. It is worth remembering, Members of the Law and Justice, that this applies, among other things. University of Rzeszowski, UMCS, universities in Zielona Góra and Olsztyn. Is there really a need for legislation that destroys universities established after 1989? Minister, why do you want to destroy this so-called law? Young universities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u467	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -424, 7 was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 19. The adoption of this minority proposal will render minority proposals 18 to 21 and amendments 2 and 3. The question was raised by Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For some Members, what we are saying here, our proposals for amendments, is an opportunity to read this law for the first time. [[Applause]] I'm just surprised at those who think they should like some mechanism just push the right button. It's for them, I'll tell you honestly, it's disgraceful. So at least listen to this and then you'll know what you're ashamed of. [[Applause]] In this amendment, which we propose, we want to ensure that the university community can decide on its fate. The university council in the shape proposed by the Ministry... The shape of this university shows that the Members of the Law and Justice Committee were manipulated at a committee meeting. Minister Müller said he was introducing an amendment guaranteeing such a state that universities would decide on the composition of the university council. However, the record says that he simply seduced Members that at least 50% of the university membership would be outside... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u469	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, I still volunteered.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[And I was written down.]] You weren't registered. 429 Members voted. For - 59, against - 368, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 18th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 19. The adoption of this minority proposal will render minority proposals 19 to 21 and amendments 2 and 3. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The university council was such a flagship body that you proposed in your law after a number of consultations. Indeed, the council was to shape the strategy of the university, to influence the statute, the choice of the rector. In fact, after work in the committee it was completely deformed, practically does not matter in the management mode of the university, it will only bear costs for the university. We therefore propose that it be able to perform its function, namely to bring the university closer to its environment or the economic, social environment in which the university operates, in order to determine precisely who is to be part of this council. The point is that they are representatives of the city in which the university has its seat, representatives of the local government, representatives of employers, organizations that cooperate with the university. Only such a way as to determine the composition of this council will be independent [[♪ The bell ♪]] Council from the inner community of the university.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u471	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 41, against - 391, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 19. the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendment 3 irrelevant. The question was raised by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[The voice from the room: Oh, bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u472	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The scientific community, students, PhD students have reasonable doubts and all these doubts, all these concerns we reported during the Maya committee meeting. Unfortunately, our vote was not heard and the amendments, several hundred amendments, were rejected. You have one last chance. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, at the university council, when the university runs a doctoral school... You're laughing. I'm sure the PhD students will be happy too. It is worth it to have a PhD student on the board of the university, so as a PhD student we will be very grateful for the opportunity to have a representation on the university board. Thank you. [[As what? As what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u473	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 151, against - 280, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th minority proposal to Article. 19 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 2nd amendment futile. The question was asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 17th project we read that public university bodies are: university council, rector and senate. The legislator first mentions the board, so at the beginning he designed it as the most important body of the university. At first, she had a lot of competence, and then these competences decreased very much, but anyway, it's an organ of the university. Therefore, we propose that, if this is a university body, those who are members of the university community represent more than 50% of the composition of the university board. Because this is the university organ. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u475	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -190, against - 242, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. 19 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 240, against - 174, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 19 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 152, against - 232, the 43. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st minority proposal to Article. 19 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 166, against - 232, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 22nd minority proposal to Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 196, against - 223, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 23rd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 198, against - 231, halted 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 195, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment to the article. 23 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -422, against - 10, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. 23 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 200, against - 232, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose e.g. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 new wording of the first sentence. Amendments 9 and 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render the 25th minority proposal irrelevant. Adoption of these amendments will imply the adoption of Amendment 19 to the draft law, which introduces the Law on Higher Education and Science. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 9, and 11, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. In - 428, 1 was against, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The conclusion of the 25th is pointless. In the 26th minority proposal to Article. 25 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments 7 and 10 irrelevant. The question was raised by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u476	Miss Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Further amendments, minority proposals 26, 27 and 28 concern the representation of individual bodies in public universities. This applies to the College of electors or the Senate. In the law, you did not guarantee that individual groups would be represented by at least one of their representatives, hence my proposal is to extend the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 to make up 20% of the membership of students and PhD students, except that the number of students and PhD students is determined in proportion to the number of both groups in the university, but each of these groups is represented by at least one representative. Given the considerable disparities in the number of students and PhD students, and the fact that they often have different interests and sometimes contradictory interests, it is necessary to guarantee the representation of different groups in these colleges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u477	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. It was 200 against - 231, holding off on two. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment to the article. 25 applicants shall propose a new wording of the first sentence of paragraph 1. 1. Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. It was 427 against -3 no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 27th minority proposal to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 applicants shall propose a new wording in point (a). b. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 28th and 29th. We will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from the 27th to 29th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. It was 202, against 227, holding off on one. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 30th minority proposal to Article. 29 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 30th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For 194, against 222, he's holding off on one. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. It was 427 against - 2, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st minority proposal and the same 13. amendment to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 2a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st minority request and 13. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. It was 423 against - 10, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd minority proposal to Article. 34 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For some of you, this is also an opportunity to learn about how universities work, what institutions, bodies make up. In this amendment, which we are proposing, we want smaller universities also to have an obligation to create within individuals that would make it easier for them to act. Leaving this solution to the Senate's will is simply an untapped solution, which is why we propose that smaller universities also have an obligation to divide universities... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, the fact that some of you are interested in more interesting things. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u479	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 32nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 183, against - 216, stopped 4. The Sejm's amendment accepted... [[Voice from the room: He rejected.]] Oh, he rejected, I'm sorry, the Sejm rejected the amendment. Because it was a motion... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this? It's either the game or the Seym.]] [[Marshal, are we watching the game?]] [[It violates the seriousness of the Sejm.]] In the 14th amendment to the article. 34 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -426, against -5, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 35 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We propose a solution whereby the Minister may include the Institute of the Polish Academy of Sciences at the request of the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences or a joint request by the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Director of the Institute after consulting the Department of the Polish Academy of Sciences responsible for the scope of the Institute's activities. The current wording of this provision allows the Minister to include this only after consulting the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences. I would like to say that the proposed amendment is in line with the position of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u481	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 230, holding off on two. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd minority proposal to Article. 35 applicants propose to add point 6a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 192, against - 232, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] In the 34th minority proposal to Article. 38 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 3. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u482	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this article, you increase the initial capital of private universities from 500,000. up to PLN 3 million. During your committee work, you showed your attitude to private property. The Deputy Minister said that this is due to the fact that there are many applications related to the bankruptcy of universities, which simply cannot cope financially in a competitive market. Prime Minister, you know very well that you have different tools to control quality at Polish universities. Universities do not conduct profit-oriented activities, do not receive investment grants. Students are financially discriminated against. You know this very well, because discussions, talks during a congress throughout Poland were being undertaken on this subject, how to increase competition and reduce discrimination against non-public universities. You're increasing your capital from 500,000. Up to 3 million. My proposal is to increase to PLN 1 million. The transfer of funds to the institution's bank account shall take place no later than 30 days from the date of entry into the records. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u483	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 185, against - 237, with a hold of 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 35th minority proposal to Article. 53 applicants propose e.g. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 35th minority request will want to take their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 193, against - 231, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 applicants propose a new wording of the second sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 405, against -17, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 36th minority proposal to Article. 55 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 2. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u484	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this Article, the Minister may refuse to issue an authorisation without consulting the opinion referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 2 if, according to the date on which the application for education is submitted, the course in question does not meet the socio-economic needs. My question: Do you really think that you can make decisions on a case-by-case basis based on subjective feelings, whether a given direction will meet the requirements of the socio-economic environment? Don't you think a bill like this is made for worse? We don't know who will be your successor, Mr. Gowin, who will come, what power will come after you. This criterion should be eliminated. I think it's politically corrupt, also financially. Science cannot be politically dependent because it loses its most important dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u485	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 192, against - 235, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 17th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 63. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. In - 48, against - 369, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th minority proposal to Article. 76 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 6. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Honourable Members! This amendment is really not political. I pointed out during my work in committee that it would be a major threat to the cooperation of universities and entrepreneurs not to make this provision. The Minister promised that he would take note of this record and make it more precise with the lawyers of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. As regards the lawyers who have proposed the wording of this amendment, I am convinced that the absence of such a provision will eliminate this cooperation, or at least the development of this cooperation. My amendment is supposed to guarantee a secret in the case of entrepreneurs when they cooperate with students when writing their diploma papers. At each stage, the diploma work is to be monitored and made public. Because of the company's secrecy, such cooperation will very often simply be eliminated because it will not give a sense of security on the part of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u487	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 231, holding off on five. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 38th minority proposal to Article. 80 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 197, against - 224, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 39th minority proposal to Article. 80 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 40th minority proposal irrelevant. Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Match game, but it would be really good to be interested in what you're voting on. [[Applause]] It is of course a cry in the desert, but it is difficult. It's okay. You're not gonna discourage me. I know you guys are used to passiveness, but maybe the fact that we're just gonna ask you questions is gonna make you do a couple of hours here, and it's gonna be your only effort. The question is: Why, while still talking about autonomy, the Minister limits the possibility for the university to decide that the university will simply be in the event that the costs of the university due to inflation increase... Why the university won't be able to raise e.g. fees for students of this university? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u489	You answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Piotr Müller. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here at the top are representatives of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland. I'm sure they're sad to hear the words of the MP... [[Voice from the hall: The game is watching.]] [[Voice from the room: How much is it?]] ...who says it's illegal to raise student fees. We're talking about how college fees should be honest and described in advance. If you're against being honest about student fees, I'm very sorry. Parliament of Polish Students, official representation of students of the country... [[Voice from the hall: Yes, they're watching the game.]] ...over 1300 thousand. students, supported these comments. If you're against it, you're against those students right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u491	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 39th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 180, against - 241, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 40th minority proposal to Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3 applicants propose a new wording of the first sentence. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 49, against - 374, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 18th amendment to the article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 4 and the addition of point 4a. Amendments 20, 21, 24 and 84 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will result in a lack of objectivity 41st minority proposal. Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u492	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Amendment 18 concerns Article. 86, which reads: The student can apply, among others. It's about a social scholarship, a disability scholarship, I'll help. We propose to add a new wording to point 4: the Rector's scholarship for scientific, scientific or artistic results and, after point 4, add point 4a as follows: the Rector's scholarship for results in sport. I think the students would be behind it-- the ones who are sitting there, and they're athletes. Besides, as far as sports scholarships are concerned, we also propose a revision of the article. 91, in which we add the possibility to grant to a person accepted for the first year of a sports scholarship for students of medalists at least the Polish championship in disciplines covered by the youth sport system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u493	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 175, against - 238, halted 19. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. This amendment is linked to 88. amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Minister! I cordially welcome students from the Parliament of Polish Students. For many years, I have worked within the Student Parliament to amend the Law on Higher Education. [[Don't brag.]] [[Voice from the room: And you have learned nothing.]] Minister, don't cover yourself with students today, even if there's official support. We've worked on the bill many times, but it never occurred to anyone to offer students a bill that divides students so much. It divides students from smaller and larger cities, [[Applause]] divides humanists and strictists, divides everyone. This isn't really about the fees and the security of the fees. It's all about principle. That's the whole point of having college students. Then we'll talk about fees. And you're proposing laws that universities can eliminate. And these are the worst drawbacks of these laws. And that is why, with all due respect to the Student Parliament, this position simply cannot be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Kinga was better.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u495	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 19 and 88 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 400, against - 22, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 41st minority proposal to Article. 91 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 69, against - 358, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 100 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 386, against - 24, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 42nd minority proposal to Article. 110 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 42nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 198, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 110 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will render the 43rd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -427, against -5, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 43. the minority's request is pointless. In the 44th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 112. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the treatment of students in this way, such an argument in favour of this law does not bring glory to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You only support them when it's convenient for you. In fact, you're treating them like an object. In this amendment, we want all university staff, including library staff, to be treated in an appropriate way, because this amendment and applies to them. We in this amendment stress the importance of the work of library workers who carry out various activities. The Ministry does not understand this activity. This activity is not only cataloguing, stocking, collecting, but above all it is a scientific activity. That is why we want to guarantee the status of the library staff with this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u497	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. In - 53, against - 375, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 45th minority proposal to Article. 116 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The adoption of this proposal will render the 25th amendment futile. The question was raised by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those Members who work at universities know well that the person who is to be employed as a university professor should be qualified accordingly. The Act should also include certain criteria after which the staff member employed as a university professor will have not only the appropriate qualifications, competences, but also a research workshop. We therefore ask that you support an amendment that recognises the importance of all criteria, including scientific, artistic and teaching, as relevant for the research and teaching competences of those employed as professors at universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u499	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -50, against -384, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 25th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Students! We propose an amendment which states that a person with at least a degree in habilitated doctor may be appointed as a university professor. The professor is a retort, a master, and it should be that we give this position to an independent scientist. Hugo Steinhaus, an outstanding mathematician, roared at the student's exam, who entered, threw his coat on the chair and sat down: Run around the table! A confused student started running at what Professor: Here's an index. Two. The student protested: you didn't ask me at all, Professor. [[Voice from the room: Very interesting.]] [[What's she reading?]] What Steinhaus: As a physics student, you should start by asking which direction and at what speed. Minister and Prime Minister, didn't you first have to ask for direction and speed so that hundreds of amendments were not made to this bill? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u501	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 173, against - 256, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 46th minority proposal to Article. 116 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are major universities where even 2,000 people work. employees. They should have a certain responsibilities. The Act provides that the responsibilities of these employees will be determined by the Rector. In our amendment, we want this duty to rest also on the scientific worker appointed by the rector. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u503	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 46th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. In - 53, against - 376, 1 held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 26th amendment to the article. 116 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -418, against -15, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 47th minority proposal to Article. 117 - the new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th minority request will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 27, against - 394, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 27th amendment to Article. 124 - new wording of point 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -404, against -17, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 48th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 125. 4. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This recipe, this article tells us why the university council really is here. The university council, apart from the fact that it will take money for nothing, is really only important in this case, because this university council will, according to the Minister's intention, give the rector the right to take additional work. In our view - but not only ours, also the National Science Section - the additional employment of the rector is simply astonishing. He has so many responsibilities, and we have just shown that there is no reason for him to be also employed at other universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u505	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. In - 52, against - 378, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 49th minority proposal to Article. 127 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna make it two years from now, as some people think. This is a bill that's really important. Law and Justice should really consider this law because it cuts the branch on which it sits. But actually, it's good to let them fall. [[Applause]] We in this minority proposal, in this amendment, propose that the educational salary of academic teachers should be lower than that proposed by the Ministry. The problem is also that workers will be required to work in more than-dimensional hours, in line with the needs of their employer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u507	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 72, against - 354, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 50th minority proposal to Article. 127 applicants propose to add paragraph. 9. Mr Józef Brynus asks the question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u508	We in this amendment want you to... This amendment concerns... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sin... [[Joy in the Chamber]] This amendment is about... [[That's exciting.]] ...recognize the work of library staff, documentation staff and scientific information in an appropriate way. This work is of great importance to the assessment of individuals. Working together with scientists and relieving them from certain tasks improves the efficiency of scientific work. Qualifications and powers should be uniform for a group of certified librarians and certified staff of documentation and scientific information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u509	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. In - 57, against - 368, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 51st minority proposal to Article. 127 applicants propose to add paragraph. 10. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus. [[This is ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an amendment for those who think you shouldn't work on Sunday. In trade we are already banned from working on some Sundays, while university employees are forced by law to do this work. That's why it's just weird. We cannot require a university employee to work on Sundays in a statutory manner. We can simply require him to work in such a way that, for example, We'd better pay him, or we'll convince him to do the same. But we can't impose such an obligation. You're the ones who introduce this obligation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u511	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 57, against - 373, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 52nd minority proposal to Article. 128 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -51, against -384, holding off on 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 53rd minority proposal to Article. 128 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3 and the addition of paragraph 3. 3a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 48, against - 380, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 54th minority proposal to Article. 128 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 193, against - 234, holding down 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 28th amendment to the article. 130 applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 130 applicants propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u512	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Scientific leave is one of the forms of support for scientific development and improvement of qualifications, which is why we would like to extend the paid scientific leave from 3 months, as you propose, to 6 months. By the way, I wanted to ask the Minister who has not responded to the interview since March: How did you spend PLN 5 million on promoting your face on the Internet and consulting? On the other hand, students protest. You didn't want to do a public hearing, but you spent PLN 5 million with a light hand. I hope I get that question from March at last. Today's answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u513	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 233, holding off on five. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the article. 137 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 202, against - 224, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 55th minority proposal to Article. 159 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The question was asked by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an amendment very important from the point of view of the sovereignty of Polish universities. Minister Gowin speaks a lot about autonomy, but the sovereignty of these universities is also important, for example. in disputes with foreign entities. The point of this amendment is that Polish universities should not be helpless in these disputes. The public university, creating a capital company with a private, foreign entity, is covered by the law resulting from international agreements, for example. CETA. In the event of a conflict, the university is subject to the jurisdiction of arbitration courts in the country of the investor. It can be assumed that, in addition to the cumbersome and high costs of such proceedings, the court will be governed by different rules from those provided for in our Polish legal order, including the Constitution. The scientific policy of the Polish state will not be taken into account. So if you want the sovereignty of Polish universities, vote in favour [[♪ The bell ♪]] that amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u515	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 55th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. In - 52, against - 382, 1 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 31st amendment to Article. 161 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 390, against - 12, halted 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 56th minority proposal to Article. 165 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 57th minority proposal irrelevant. The question is asked by Mrs Joann Schmidt from the Liberal and Social circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u516	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! My amendment aims at the possibility of a federation between private and public entities. Prime Minister, please stand here and explain why you are so disgusted with private capital. During the consultation, you blindfolded all non-public universities that they would eventually be taken into account in the reform of higher education. By giving examples of good solutions from the West, universities in Great Britain, the United States, you are paradoxically giving examples of universities that have mixed capital and which are certainly using private funds. My amendment is in such a way that a public university with another university can simply include a federation and cooperate. If you have concerns that this is not meant to serve society in some way, I apologize, to the people, then please consult Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is talking a lot about the partnership right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public-private. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u517	It was, of course, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, not Scheuring-Wielgus, as it was displayed. [[Ooh... Mr. Marshal.]] [[Unless you two are getting along.]] [[Voice from the room: Both blondes.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 202, against - 233, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 57th minority proposal to Article. 165 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 204, against - 208, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 58th minority proposal to Article. 177 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 156, against - 258, halted 23. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 59th minority proposal to Article. 177 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 153, against - 251, halted 23. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 60th minority proposal to Article. 177 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 203, against - 230, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 32nd amendment to the article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. Amendments 33, 34, 38 and 41 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 32nd to 34th, 38th and 41st, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 202, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 35th amendment to the article. 182 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Amendments 36, 37, 40, 42, 44 and 47 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the above amendments would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. In -430, against -3, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 61st minority proposal to Article. 187 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1 and 4 and the addition of paragraph 4. 3a and 3b. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 39th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 194, against - 228, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 39th amendment to Article. 187 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 202, against - 222, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 43rd amendment to the article. 198 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. In - 425, against - 4, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 45th amendment to the article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 applicants propose to add a second sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will render the 62nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -433, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The next conclusion is unsubstantiated. In the 46th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 204a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Poland ratified the Convention the rights of persons with disabilities. Art. 24 talks about rational improvements in higher education. The amendment that we have tabled on behalf of disabled people studying in doctoral studies is that they should be given the opportunity to extend these studies by 2 years. If the Prime Minister did not listen and gave a rational answer, why disabled people cannot apply for it, such as: Those who take care of the child, I refer to the Student Parliament. I am asking you, when reading senate on behalf of your disabled colleagues, to make a request for this amendment. Maybe you'll listen to the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u519	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 208, against - 224, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 48th amendment to the article. 208 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For -424, 1 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 49th amendment to the article. 209 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -424, 4 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 50th amendment to the article. 209 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For -435, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 51st amendment to Article. 209 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Kinga, wait, because he's criminal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u520	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This amendment concerns a doctoral scholarship. We would like at least 20% PhD students with the highest academic achievements and, in the case of first year PhD students, the highest recruitment results, first year PhD students are an extension, received a doctoral scholarship in a given year increased by at least 40% the amount you are proposing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u521	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, can we have a break?]] 434 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 234, one holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Penalty.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's go.]] Let's go. [[Voice from the room: Criminals are.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: 10 minutes of punitive breaks.]] In the 52nd amendment to the article. 209 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. In - 199, against - 231, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 53rd amendment to the article. 209 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 388, against - 39, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 54th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 209. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 55 and 76 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 184, against - 247, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 55th amendment to Article. 209 applicants propose... [[A voice from the courtroom: No, Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes' rest.]] ...the new wording of the paragraph. 8. This amendment is combined with the 76th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 55th and 76th, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 295, against - 139, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 56th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 212. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. In - 418, against - 4, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 57th amendment to Article. 219 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of point 2 of paragraph 2. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will imply the adoption of Amendment 14 to the draft law, which introduces the Law on Higher Education and Science. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 409, against - 24, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 58th amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 219. 5 and 6. Amendments 59, 60, 64 and 72 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will result in the nullity of minority proposals from 63rd to 72nd and will require the adoption of Amendment 25 to the draft law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. The question was asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u522	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! To be honest, there was a bill, and then the amendments started to be tabled, and then there was nothing left of it. E.g. this amendment that we will now vote on. One of the more interesting solutions that were included in this law was the possibility of a fast path of promotion through habilitation, through international grants. We have these European and other grants literally for a cure. They're practically gone. The possibility of attracting young scientists back to Poland due to the fact that thanks to the grant they have the opportunity to obtain habilitation was one of the most valuable things in this bill, but you also resigned from it. What's left in this bill? And that's my question to the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u523	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 58th to 60th, 64th and 72nd, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 280, against - 157, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. This amendment is pointless. In the 64th Amendment... She's unobtrusive, too. [[The voice from the room: Oh, it's good.]] [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] In the 61st amendment to Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This violates the seriousness of the Sejm.]] [[Calm down the fans.]] [[Voice from the hall: The game is watching.]] The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 369, against - 64, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 62nd amendment to Article. Article 22 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mrs Alicja Chybick, the Civic Platform Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if I should speak, Marshal, in this noise. [[Mr. Marshal, you will silence the fans.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 229 It is said that an applicant for the title of Professor may apply again, as her leg should be, after at least 5 years. We propose to change this period to 3 years. There are 12 thousand in Poland. professors at 118,6 thousand. scientific staff and 43 000. PhD students. [[The voice from the room: Oh, bravo!]] [[Applause, excitement, chatter in the hall]] The doctor's degree is enough to write a review in the professional proceedings. Who's gonna educate these PhD students? Minister and Prime Minister! Not the amount, but the quality of education. The student who came to the Colloquium to see Professor Jan Miodek, a well-known polonist, and used the phrase to the professor: I came to the circle only after the third reminder understood where she made a serious stylistic error. The question is, are such errors [[♪ The bell ♪]] student protests and many amendments were born. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u525	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 196, against - 237, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 63rd amendment to the article. 234 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4 and the addition of paragraph 4. 4a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked... No, no one volunteered. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For - 197, against - 202, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, everyone's watching the game.]] [[You've got something to pick on.]] In the 73rd minority proposal to Article. Article 24 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 7. This proposal is combined with 79. minority request. [[They're all kidding.]] We will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 73rd and 79th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 184, against - 236, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 74th minority proposal to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 65th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the Members of Parliament is in favour of the 74th minority request will raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 57, against - 361, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 65th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 403, against -25, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 66th amendment to the article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 The applicants propose to delete point 6. Amendments 68 and 71 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 66, 68 and 71, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For -432, 1 was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 67th amendment to the article. 256 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The 83rd amendment is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 67th and 83rd, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For -434, against -3, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 69. amendment to Article. 268 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will render the 75th minority proposal irrelevant. The question was raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u526	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Students! You are, dear students, just for a little while. The bill is for the whole science. And that, Minister, does not prove very well that you today are the student who will be interested in this matter at a certain time, trying to drag you into this game, into this bad bill. In this amendment, the Minister for Science and Higher Education defines by regulation the type of scientific and artistic achievements identified by the evaluation of scientific activities. But I'm not gonna talk about it. I will talk about the fact that a lot of university circles indicate that the evaluation deadline, i.e. the evaluation of the university's scientific and research and development activities, is 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many young universities will not meet this criterion. Don't you think it should be 2025... [[President of the session includes Marshal Marek Kuchciński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u527	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u528	...so as not to destroy young universities in Rzeszów, Lublin, Olsztyn, Zielona Góra? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u529	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of 69. corrections, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 399 against - 11, with 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 75. The proposal is irrelevant. In the 70th amendment to the article. 272 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Point 1 and paragraph 2. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 70th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 195 voted against - 239, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 76th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 332. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 76th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 48 votes against - 387, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 77th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 341a. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 77th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 201, 232 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 73rd amendment to the article. 344 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of paragraph. Point 1 (10). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 73rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 427, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 74th amendment to the article. 344 applicants propose, inter alia, add point 2a in paragraph 2. 5. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 74th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 436 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 75th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 75th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 1st abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 78th minority proposal to Article. 347 applicants propose inter alia. the new wording of paragraph. 1. The adoption of this proposal will render the 77th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 78th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 186 voted against 226 and 23 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 77th amendment to Article. Paragraph 347. 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 13. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 77th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 261 voted against - 154, 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 78th amendment to the article. 354 applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u530	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I applied to minority proposals, to minority applications 78. I would very much like to highlight the achievements of non-public universities after 1989. Do you really see here, in the Seym, how important the development of public universities for our economy was, in general, for Poland? Prime Minister, you lacked the courage to involve non-public education in the financing system, and yet another record is that you want to destroy non-public universities. 'Cause why should they make public... Confess every penny, every source of money, every financial result? This will mean unfair competition on the market. After all, non-public universities have no money from the state, they invest with their resources, they start new directions, they often have losses in one year, but then they make up for it. You have other tools to control non-public universities, not destroy them financially. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u531	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 78th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 371 voted against - 11, 51 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 80th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 360. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 80th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 203 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 81st minority proposal to Article. 361 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 81st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 187 voted against 249, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 79th amendment to Article. 364 applicants propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 79th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The 434 voted, with two abstentions, no one was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 82nd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose the new wording of point 1 366. b. The question is asked by Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u532	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 82. The minority proposal concerns Article. 366, which refers to the allocation of funding for higher education and science. We propose a new wording in point 1 in point 1. b. The maintenance and development of universities, including student homes and canteens and sports infrastructure. In recent years, universities have invested very large resources in developing sport infrastructure for students. A total of several hundred million zlotys were spent on investments with their own participation from 20 to 35%. The biggest investments of recent years are the Bay of Sports in the Łódź University of Technology, a complex: a 50-metre swimming pool, a sports hall and facilities for exercise and rehabilitation at the Warsaw Medical University, a gaming hall with facilities at the Poznań University of Technology. So this money to maintain such facilities will be very much needed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u533	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 82nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 205 voted against - 231, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 83rd minority proposal to Article. 366 applicants propose, inter alia, the addition of point (a) of point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; d in point 4. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 83rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 voted against - 233, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 80th amendment to the article. Paragraph 367. 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 80th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 426 against - 8, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 81st amendment to Article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose a new wording of point 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 81st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 434 and 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 85th minority proposal to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of this minority proposal will allow the funding of regional universities such as the Technical and Humanities Academy in Bielsko-Biała, which, Prime Minister, you have recently been a guest, not so long ago. You assured me of good changes for universities, but you did not mention that you would introduce far-reaching changes in the system of evaluation of scientific quality, in connection with the financial sphere and parametric evaluation, which would prevent the development of regional universities. On behalf of the academic community, the Technical and Humanities Academy in Bielsko-Biała, the only state university in the region that educates staff for the economy, but also conducts research on polymers and graphene, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Why did you cheat us? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u535	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of all the amendments that the opposition has proposed here, this amendment is the most important. It concerns the financing of universities. The level that will guarantee as such a test, as such the level of these tests, that is 2% gross domestic product. We're proposing a way to get to this indicator. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education, subject to the Ministry of Finance, proposes its own solution by which this level of 2% gross domestic product will never be achieved. Worse still, it offers a solution that is simply difficult to apply because it is very complicated. Well, we know who's more important in this government. Minister of Finance. This proves that the Polish state is really It doesn't work very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u537	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education Piotr Müller asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here I would like to refer to those words, words that have just been said, because they are not true. If you check the financial results of universities this year, you will be well aware that most of them have gained from the new financial algorithm and that the new law introduces new funding mechanisms for regional universities. It is an unprecedented support programme after 1989, which is the regional initiative of excellence, that is, a special funding stream for regional universities for research, so that these islands of scientific excellence are supported by the Polish government. It is a teaching initiative of excellence, which will support state higher vocational schools, which are very important from the point of view of the functioning of many counties in Poland. These are three separate funding algorithms: one for professional universities and two different for academic institutions, so that actually so-called. research universities did not race with universities that are in smaller cities. We These principles, by introducing academic groups, in the financial algorithm we accept, so please do not mislead the High House, because the funding of universities will vary depending on the missions of these universities. Therefore, the information that appears here is false. I am really touched by the concern of Members of the Civic Platform for Eastern Poland. It's a pity your government didn't care. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Who asked?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u539	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 85th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's holding back? Who's against it? 435 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 202 against - 232. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 86th minority proposal to Article. 384 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 86th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 205 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 82nd amendment to the article. 388 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our amendment is to make it possible for 15 universities to receive funding instead of 10. Mr. Marshal! This bill is an exceptional example of a legislative mess. Please note that we are voting on amendments for more than two hours. These are mostly government amendments. That indicates how you treat the High House... [[Yes, sir!]] ...on the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. I have a question for Minister Gowin. Minister, are you satisfied with the shape of the bill we're investigating? How much does she have to do with your original submission? Or are you glad that this bill is in the High Sejm at all? After all, we know how much resistance there was to the environment that you are now associated with so that this law could even be in the Seym. That's how they changed your bill, that's how they corrected it, and she's still unacceptable to us. Minister, please withdraw this bill, correct, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it seems to me that Polish universities, Polish universities...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u541	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u542	...they deserve good legislation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u543	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 82nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 voted against - 232, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 87th minority proposal to Article. 390 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 87th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 201 voted against - 228, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 89th minority proposal to Article. 408 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The question is raised by Joanna Schmidt, near Liberalnia and the Community.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u544	Mr. Marshal, liberal society. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I call on you to withdraw from the provision which says that funding from subsidies must be held in an account operated by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I have a question for you: Have you ever negotiated the terms of a working loan, an investment loan? Because I don't think you did, because you know that in order to get the right conditions to have low credit costs, the bank will want the funds to be held in his account. You're preventing this from happening, and thanks to these records, you're putting universities at risk of financial loss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u545	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 89th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 voted against - 233, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 90th minority proposal to Article. 421 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 90th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 203 voted against - 234, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 85th amendment to Article. Article 436 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in the entry into the calculation, the applicant shall propose that the reference be amended. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 85th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - one, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 86th amendment to the article. Paragraph 439. The third sentence of the third sentence of the proposal is to amend the reference. The 87th amendment is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will mean the adoption of amendment 21 to the draft law, which introduces the Law on Higher Education and Science. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 86th and 87th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 23, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 89th amendment to the article. 469 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u546	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: "Dear.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister! You had three years to prove yourself to reach the Minister of Finance's ear and significantly increase your spending on science and higher education. Today you are offering us a constitution for science. But, Prime Minister, the constitution doesn't always mean the same thing. Today the constitution is trampled... [[A voice from the room: No!]] ...and people with such a stamp "Constitution" go out on the street not to praise you for this bill, but to fight for their rights, for their freedom. I'd like to ask Mr. Marshal a question. Marshal, do you agree with the Sejm Analysis Office expert who wrote that this law, the Jarosław Gowin Act, will have a destructive effect on the regional development of Poland? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u547	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 89th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 433, against - 3 and abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Members shall put the whole question to the vote. Member Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project has a number of significant shortcomings. It does not respect academic autonomy and self-government. There has been no increase in spending on higher education and science that would effectively reduce the distance to the average in the European Union, the distance to the average, and so we have said at the beginning of this process. There are no elementary regulations regarding basic organisational units with deans, faculty councils. This lack, among others. leads to absurd solutions giving the senate the power to grant degrees. There were many flaws in the process of the bill... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm out of time. Thank you very much. That's why we're going to vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u549	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! It can be said that Law 2.0 failed. We can talk about boobs and bangs. Really, in this form, this project does not satisfy anyone. Neither gives the strength and opportunity to develop good universities nor gives weaker universities a chance to catch up with good ones or at least give themselves a chance in the light of this law. Small regional centres will be destroyed and large ones will not allow, for example. scientists were developing. You've destroyed everything that's supposed to be international, e.g. issues of habilitation on the basis of a grant and that the professor requires international experience, an internship somewhere abroad. Really, there is no additional funding for higher education and science. This bill doesn't serve anyone, and it doesn't satisfy anyone. It's just bullshit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u551	Please. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The weakness of this law, but also its biggest drawback, is that it gives the Minister of Science and Higher Education extraordinary delegations to issue regulations, and these regulations will decide for example. on evaluation and parameterization, evaluation of universities. I was at a meeting with Minister Gowin, and indeed the Minister explained a very bright vision of the future for Polish science and higher education, but when it came to the details which one of the department directors presented, then it just turned out to be meatloaf. These detailed solutions will kill smaller Polish universities and smaller academic centres. [[That's not true!]] That's right, that's right. You can just curse reality, but you will. Maybe not today, but in a few years. That's for sure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u553	Mr Joann Schmidt, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u554	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! These words are addressed to you. Two years ago, it really sounded good. It was supposed to be a reform other than all of them, and there was a deformity like all of your laws. I was present at most of the congresses that you organized, and indeed there were very positive voices in the cockroaches, but every month you gave in to the pressures of your environment. At the end, we had a real show of strength between Marshal Terletsky and you. You've been very conformist. Please admit that you have compromised, deformed this bill, right now there is some shapeless, tasteless, just a jelly that no longer resembles, does not change anything, because there is no additional financial means, this financial injection, which would increase the quality of Polish science. You're sending young professors to retirement who are in fact reaching the height of their scientific career. You're against private equity, private universities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these changes aren't gonna make a good... They will not improve the quality of Polish universities. We'll be against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u555	Thank you, Member. Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education Piotr Müller has the floor. [[What are the duties of Members and Ministers?]] [[Voice from the room: Perhaps you could take the bonuses.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is Minister Gowin?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's disturbing... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the Prime Minister?]] Now, instead of politics, a little argument, ladies and gentlemen. [[Too much soda.]] I'm referring to the specific charges that have been filed here. First of all, maybe I'll start with who backed the bill because I have the impression that the state here has made such a vision - that countless crowds from the academic community are protesting against this law. [[Who's against it?]] The Act was supported by the Parliament of Polish Students, the Act was supported by the National Representation of PhD Students, the Act was supported by numerous student authorities from universities... [[Voice from the room: Not this one. But which version?]] That version, sir. That version. [[Voice from the hall: this one, this one.]] This version, this one, this one. As regards further support, regional universities within the framework of the Zielona Góra Agreement, which bring together a network of small and medium-sized regional universities. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Technical universities, artistic universities, state-owned vocational schools have supported this project because it introduces separate funding mechanisms for them. In addition, there is support for employers' organisations. You will find all this on our website if you would like to look at it and see what the consultation process has looked like, which lasted over 2 years and took meetings with the crowds, thousands of representatives of the academic community. As for the allegations that have been made here, it is about the substantive or rather not substantive ones, I would like to address them one at a time. [[Cocky little brat.]] Increasing autonomy, the question of university autonomy. The Act increases the autonomy of the university by increasing its organisational freedom within. It is the academic community that decides how the university works inside, not the law. The law does not impose this, and this is precisely the extension of university organisational autonomy, not the imposition of structure from the top in the law. As far as issues related to the evaluation of science are concerned, we are moving away from the mechanism of punktosis, which was left to us after the previous law. So far, scientists have had to collect points for mass, not to wonder whether they were publishing in a reasonable way and whether they could face ambitious research challenges. Now, as a rule, a scientific worker will present his four most important scientific achievements and thus be able to focus on real scientific research and pursue his ambitions, not collect points. In addition, in the law itself, we guarantee that we take into account the specifics of humanities and social sciences, strengthening the importance of monographs in the evaluation of scientific research. What is also important and what is the request of trade unions introduced by this law is that we stabilise the issue of employment in universities, in particular contracts are more quickly transformed into those for an indefinite period. There is a possibility of job promotions, which means that there is no need to carry out another competition if there is a promotion to the next post after obtaining another degree of science or meeting the requirements that will be indicated in the statutes. First of all, it is also a revolutionary change in the education of future scientific elites, i.e. the creation of doctoral schools. So far, PhD students in most cases have been poor, let's face it. For the first time, the Act introduces a mechanism for a universal scholarship system. Every doctoral student recruited since 2019/2020 will receive a scholarship, will be covered by maternity or father leave. This is a policy that, when it comes to scientists, also strengthens family issues. That hasn't happened yet. As far as student cases are concerned, I am very sorry that there has been such a statement here that students are only for a moment. No, students will later become a society if we educate them in a good way, in a manner sufficient... [[They're not a society now, no.]] ...of high quality. This will be about what the Polish elite will be like. If you are laughing at the fact that students are only for a moment, I am very sorry to hear that, because students are the most important in this system, because they will be educated, 1300 thousand. students who are educated. [[Applause]] The greater protection of the student's rights was so bothered by the Kukiz club here, I find it regrettable. Yes, we introduce an obligation to set all fees before you start your studies and prohibit them from being increased... [[But you're raising taxes.]] ...because we think it's fair to students, and that's very important. [[Applause]] And that was the student's request that we not cheat later when we raise the fees. This is one of the things that was indicated by the Parliament of Polish Students. A wider possibility of creating interdisciplinary studies that combines the potential of different departments by introducing the possibility here. creating studies at the level of the entire university. And what you've been referring to here -- a few things about regional universities. I am simply wondering how it is possible that regional universities, representatives of regional universities, supported this law, which is supposed to put them in a difficult position. Because I can't figure out how that's possible. [[With more respect!]] The universities supported this bill. I'll say it again: universities... The Zielona Góra Agreement, which brings together middle and small universities, supported this law. Why? Because it introduces a regional initiative of excellence, which will finance research carried out in these islands of excellence in smaller universities. This is a separate funding stream that large research institutions will not have access to. They will be prohibited from taking funds from this financial stream. A separate financial stream is being spent on regional universities. The dydactic initiative of excellence for state higher vocational schools is the support for these universities, more than 30 state higher vocational schools, which are very important in terms of the functioning of counties, smaller towns. The state to these universities even drive They didn't want to. Ministers didn't visit these universities. [[With more respect, with more respect!]] This is the position that we heard from the public rectors of higher vocational schools just when we took it. A separate financial algorithm is something that we introduce into this law, that is, we create groups of universities, so that each of them can ensure an adequate level of development and ability to compete within their groups, not compete with the largest ones. And further, increases for academic teachers since 1 January 2019 - increase of minimum salaries in individual academic groups by an average of PLN 800 gross. As regards funding mechanisms, because someone here said - I think Mr Szczerba - that there is no financing mechanism, I will tell you what funding mechanisms the Civic Platform has left behind. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: And that is not what we asked you.]] No, I'm not gonna give up, I'm gonna remind you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That would be a revalorization of PLN 100 million a year. We are introducing a mechanism that will guarantee PLN 1 billion a year. Is there a difference? There's a difference. [[Applause]] Is there a good change? There's a good change. [[You're lying.]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] Over PLN 47.5 billion in 10 years will be added to the higher education and science system, and next year PLN 3 billion... [[Kaczynski gets all that bullshit.]] ...for investments for universities under Treasury bonds. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the things that change into the bill. The state has a choice today: either vote for these positive changes for students, PhD students, raises, behind the funding stream of the Regional initiative of excellence... [[Why is Solidarity protesting?]] ...or leave the system you left behind. I choose our system because I believe that it is discussed, has the support of the academic community and will bring development not only to large universities, but above all to regional universities, [[Game in the O.R.]] ensuring the diversity of the Polish academic community. And while you're screaming here, that's how it's gonna be because this bill is going to be voted out today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And you don't vote!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u557	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 2563, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] 429 Members voted. 233 voted against - 195, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed the Law on Higher Education and Science. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Governmental Draft Law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science (Prints No.2447, 2564 and 2564-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, print No 2564-A, on the Government's draft law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2447. The Sejm at its 64th meeting on 14 June 2018 in accordance with Article 9 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2564 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to examine 30 amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 14 June 2018, makes the following amendments: No 1 - This amendment should be voted on together with Amendments 8, 23, 24 and 30; No 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, which should be voted on together with Amendments 11 and 13; No 12 - this amendment should be voted on together with amendments 18 and 26; and Amendments 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 25, 27 and 29. The High Sejm should reject Amendment 3 - this amendment should be voted on together with Amendment 28; and Amendments 5 and 20. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u559	Thank you, Member. I would like to remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft print law No. 2564. We will vote first on the minority proposals and also on the amendments presented in the additional report. In the first amendment to Article. Point 1 of the proposal to amend the provision on the entry into force of certain provisions of the draft Law on Higher Education and Science. Amendments 8, 23, 24 and 30 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1, 8, 23, 24 and 30, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 362 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 364 Members voted. The vote was 362, against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the Individual Income Tax Act, the applicant proposes to add an article. 26a. Amendment 28 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 28 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 384 Members voted. 179 voted against - 205, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 15 Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist applicants propose among others. the new wording of paragraph. 3e. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 17 Laws on Libraries propose to add paragraph. 4 and 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. For - 184, against - 211, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 33 of the Act on the National Science Centre, the applicants propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For -372, against -27, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 2 of the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences, the applicant proposes among others. the new wording of points 8 and 9. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 141, against 249, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment to the article. 18 of the Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency, the applicant proposes a new wording of points 3 and 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 382 against - 29, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 172 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 28, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 applicants propose to amend the transitional provisions. Amendments 11 and 13 connect to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 10, 11 and 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 425, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 12th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 applicants shall propose that the time limit for the submission of the declarations referred to in that provision be fixed at 31 January 2019. Amendments 18 and 26 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for their adoption. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 12, 18 and 26, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 402, against - 29, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 2. the minority proposal and amendments 14 to 16 were tabled to Article. 179 draft law. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 152 votes against - 258, 19 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 14th Amendment to the mouth. 6 applicants propose to amend their references. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Attention, I remind you that the amendment 57 tabled in the draft Law on Higher Education and Science, which is inextricably linked to the amendment currently under consideration, was accepted by the Sejm and dot. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 398 votes against - 31, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th Amendment to the mouth. Point 6 (1) (a) b and to Article. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) b applicants propose to grant at The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -432, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 7a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 404 against - 27, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 191 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For 402, against - 30, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this The Commission proposes that it be adopted. I would remind you that amendments 6, 9 and 11, which are inextricably linked to the amendment currently under consideration, were adopted by the Sejm in the draft Law on Higher Education and Science. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -402, against -27, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 applicants propose The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 231, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 applicants propose The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. I would like to remind you that amendments 86 and 87 tabled to the draft Law on Higher Education and Science, which are inextricably linked to the amendment currently under consideration, were adopted by the Sejm. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -404, against - 30, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 235 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a to 1d. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 3 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 323 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. I would remind you that amendments 58, 59, 60, 64 and 72 tabled in the draft Law on Higher Education and Science, which are inextricably linked to the amendment currently under consideration, were accepted by the Sejm. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 25th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 30, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 325 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 27th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 433, no one voted against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 335 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 29th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u560	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I think I understand why you sent Mr. Minister to Mr. Müller's reply, because it's not your bill for a long time now, it has nothing to do with what was proposed. [[Applause]] Two years of consultation, but you've consulted completely different, so it's hard to say. to consult on the product that was created. Score, the score will go on, only on a different background. It's probably gonna happen, for example. The base, I don't know, 500 magazines that will be added according to their own ideas and such unclear criteria. College board. The idea turned out to be so unsuccessful that in the end there was actually a flower for the goat. In fact, we have an expensive toy that doesn't bring anything except cost, because it doesn't have any rights. In general, it's really rotten.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u561	Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this law is rotten, because one of the elements of this gniot is that in the regulation we will use the Scopus base, from which they leave, for example. Germany. Other countries are leaving, and we're just pushing for it. It's sick, it's anachronistic, it's just obsolete. This bill is unacceptable. We just need to tell all of you this. This law was not decided in consultation, it was not decided in committees, it was not decided during the parliamentary debates. It was decided in the privacy of President Kaczyński's office. This was admitted by Prime Minister Gowin himself, saying that there was the support of President Kaczyński for this bill. And that's the only reason this bill went through. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 3,000. Notes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u563	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 2564, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 236 voted against - 195, 2 abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed legislation introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No. 2688). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to provide the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the applicants a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 2688. The proposed amendments to the draft resolution are mainly based on the extension of the scope of actions set up on 24 November 2017 by the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws. This will enable the Parliamentary draft law to be reviewed by the electoral code on the rules governing the election of Members of the European Parliament in the electoral districts, print No 2660. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, please vote in favour of extending the scope of the activities of the committee mentioned by me so that we can deal efficiently with the Parliamentary bill amending the electoral code law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u565	Thank you. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the proposal? [[Yeah, to ask a question.]] To ask a question? Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u566	Dear Marshal, High Seym! This is a special subcommittee. The introduction of the Trojan horse into the Polish electoral law, because how else to name this fortel of political looters on the part of the PiS who want to introduce the euro, but into the pocket of their former ministers. I am referring here to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Minister Jurgiel, the exhibition furman Dominik Tarzyński and a few others. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[He was trying to insult me.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's agree, this bill, this election order for Europarliament, this is the mother of all other laws. First, they will test how this will work in the case of the Europarlament, then they will give us the same ordination in 2019 and to the final of this fragile support of the PiS, which in 2015 gave two hundred and thirty seats, you will have almost a constitutional majority. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I say firmly: no need for this subcommittee, throw this project in the trash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u567	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During today's debate during the day there were maybe 10% Members present today, so I will repeat what I said a few hours earlier: stealing, acting, naivety. Some want to steal some seats to the European Parliament, others pretend that something is happening to them. The platform isn't gonna happen because you're perfectly secured by the PiS and you're gonna have as many tickets as you had. [[By the voters.]] [[By the voters.]] In the PiS coalition, you will take seats, rule and share Poles. And you are naive if you think that the PiS is about money, about some euro, because it is really a fitting for a new ordination to this parliament, here in Warsaw, which will share Poles. All smaller groups will disappear. It's just gonna be PiS and anti-PiS. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u569	Thank you. That's all the MPs? The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Is there an objection? I can't hear you. We're coming... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There's an objection. [[Voice from the room: Reason.]] Then we'll vote against it. Who among you is in favour of joining the second reading of the draft resolution immediately, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 232 votes against - 198. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Why couldn't Dominic correct it?]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[I'll be right with you.]] We proceed to the second reading of the resolution. Would any of you like to speak at second reading? I can't see. Questions? I can't hear you. [[Kukiz about the JOWs.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 2688 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 234 against - 196. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 56 hours 23 min 57]] I'll resume the session after recess. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 3 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. So I close the list. We'll proceed with the statements. You are beginning Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u570	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I rarely make statements, but today's case is extremely important in terms of e.g. the Law on Higher Education and Science. At first I wanted to say that I am surprised that Minister Müller, Deputy Minister, or Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, was so arrogant that the previous government did not care about universities in Eastern Poland. That's not true. If he drove around Poland as part of the consultation of this bill, he saw how much was done for changes in the scientific infrastructure of the university in Eastern Poland, among others. in Rzeszów at Rzeszów University and at Rzeszow University of Technology, but also in Olsztyn, Lublin or other cities. It is not true that the science community was not cared for, because for the next three years the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL gave increases to employees of science, increased their salaries each year by 10% for the next three years. And now I'm going to talk about this bill and how it's received in the academic community. I would like to present to the High House and dedicate to Minister Govin the resolutions which have taken the councils of the departments of the University of Rzeszów. Thus, one of the resolutions is the resolution of the Council of the Socio-Historical Faculty, which was adopted on June 14th, on expressing its opinion on the draft Law on Higher Education and Science: the Council of the Socio-Historical Faculty of the University of Rzeszowski expresses deep concern about the introduced law 2.0 Law on higher education and science. When we see positive solutions in the proposed bill, we also point out those elements that pose very serious risks to the further functioning of mid-sized universities located outside the largest agglomerations. These centres, established after 1989, are developing dynamically, play an important role in stimulating scientific, educational, but also cultural, economic and infrastructure development. Being the centre of innovation in the modernization processes of small homelands, they are at the same time a subject of pride and an expression of their aspirations. In Eastern Poland this is the role of the University of Rzeszowski and the University of Warmia and Mazury, the University of Białystok. The risk of marginalisation of mid-sized universities is indicated, among others. Opinion of 23 February 2018 prepared by Dr. Hab. Jarosław Szymank, chief specialist at the Sejm Office for Sejm Analysis. But universities as well as universities fear that the evaluation period due to time constraints... They also raise this issue and indicate that 2021 could lead to the degradation of individual academic units and express their belief that universities should be categorized no earlier than 2020. They ask the Minister for Science and Higher Education, but also the MPs and MPs not to adopt this law. A similar position, some of which I quoted, was also taken by the Council of the Art Faculty of the University of Rzeszów on 14 March 2018. And it will be astonishing, and it will be surprising to the behaviour of the Members of the Law and Justice who have laid their hand on demoting universities in their regions. We have made so much efforts to ensure that these universities function and function well. At the University of Rzeszów it was taken care to run a medical faculty, similarly at the University of Zielona Góra. Today, colleagues in law and justice are demoting universities in their communities. It's a shame. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... shame, shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u571	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u572	Mrs. Marshal! Dear citizens of Zielona Góra, Lubuszanie, especially employees of the Board of Tax Administration in Zielona Góra together with members of your families! Since Monday last week, the Zielona Góra community, but also the entire Lubuskie land, is again electrified by speculations and speculations concerning the alleged decision to transfer the tax administration from Zielona Góra to Gorzów. In view of the fact that these speculations are not covered by facts and decisions, it is worth not only denouncing them, but also cementing the actions of Law and Justice politicians so that the Green Góra people do not have a sense of cheating or ripping them off. In the media, networked space, but also at the session of the Zielona Góra City Council, there were voices of lack of acceptance of these plans. Representatives of trade unions and crews and their families played an active role in this certification of attachment to the location of the chamber in Zielona Góra. He is pleased that they were also accompanied by Councillors of Law and Justice, whose opinion on the alleged transfer is clearly negative. Sometimes, as you know perfectly well, it is worth to emphasize that the inspiration for this type of crazy political plans is not the intentions of the rulers, but the political game, so-called. Insults, and if we were to account for the Lubusian political class's responsibility for the word and the consequences of the activated evil passions, this responsibility would fall on all of us: so those who do not clearly show their determination in order to maintain consensus for the paradisaic agreement as well as those... It is about Kukiz's backstage speeches15 lobbying explicitly for Gorzów or Gorzów's parliamentarians. Of course, in view of this hustle, there was a need for countermeasures. Maybe a little spectacular, based on strengthening the uniform position of law and justice in cabinet debates to identify who's playing who. We are fortunately one, and therefore I respect the Minister of Rafalska, Mr Mark Ast, the other Members of the United Right and the voivodeship for the fact that, acting for the good of the land of Lubusz, we are obviously, really trying to implement a sustainable development strategy in our region. I welcome my role in these activities. Thank you for the trust she has given me. So what is the answer for workers and greengórzans? Nothing changes. I want the House in Green Mountain. I would like to express my gratitude to the Prime Minister for acknowledging our points and to Minister Banasi for listening to the reasonable reasons for our efforts. Please our political adversaries: do not play this card to antagonize the Lubusian community. If she, and we are seeking this, is to succeed, it is necessary to recognise the priorities of fair, rational and Community action. At the same time, I would have been reckless if I had not thanked the team of officials and officials of the Green Góra tax administration for the efficiency of work, reliability and diligence in implementing the good change. At the same time, on behalf of our political environment, I apologize to you for the further tensions and the lurking of your environment in the whirls of political manipulation and based in public life on the intention of total confrontation, not consent and cooperation. I greet you warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u573	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u574	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 24 June 2018 in Ryki, Lublin Voivodeship, celebrations were held to commemorate, on the 72nd anniversary of his death, the memory of Major. Mariana Bernaciaka nicknamed Orlik. The organizers of the ceremony were the mayor of Ryk Jarosław Żakzek and the World Union of Soldiers of the National Army in Ryki. They participated in it, among others. Major's family, combatants, numerous flag mails, head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, Krzysztof Szulowski, director of the Department of the Institute of National Remembrance in Lublin Marcin Krzysztofik, representative of Lublin Voivodeship Mariusz Wicik, local government officials, representatives of a number of institutions, residents of Ryk and surroundings and guests. Major Marian Bernaciak is a hero of the anti-communist post-war underground, an outstanding guerrilla leader in the area not only of Lublin and Mazowsze, but of the entire Polish state. As commander of the guerrilla group and conspiracy structures of the Puławy Province of AK-WiN, one of the best organized in the Lublin district, he made a significant contribution to the fight for the liberation of Poland from German occupation and then Soviet occupation. He was a member of the 1939 defence war in ranks 2. The Heavy Artillery regiment from Chelm. During Włodzimierz Wołyński's defense, he got into Soviet captivity, from which he fled and returned to his hometown. In 1940, he became involved in conspiracy activities. He formed a guerrilla unit composed of 15. The Infantry Regiment of the National Army, which carried out more than 20 combat actions against Germany in 1944. During the action, in 1944 Ryki was taken by Ryki himself, and in Dęblin he saved important military, economic facilities from being destroyed and saved the population from being exported. In 1944, at the head of some 350 guerrillas, he marched to help the fighting Warsaw insurgents who failed. After the disbandment, he was hiding, wanted by the NKVD. In 1945, he reconstructed the branch and became the commander of the group of troops of the Association of Freedom and Independence in the District Inspector of Puławy, and then Deputy Inspector of Puławy for Security Affairs. This group carried out many actions against the communist authorities. In April 1945, Orlik carried out one of the most bravo actions, breaking up a county prison in Puławy in Ubek. On 1 May 1945 the branch of Orlika entered the market in Kock and turned the communist rally into a manifestation of support for the Polish Government in exile. The largest guerrilla battle of the anti-communist underground after the war was fought by Orlik troops on 24 May 1945 in the Stock Forest near Kazimierz Dolny, when they were unexpectedly attacked by a strong operating group of NKVD, KBW, UB and MO. On July 27, 1945, the Orlika branch freed from rail transport near Bąkowce, near Dęblin, about 120 prisoners, including many soldiers of the underworld of independence. On 24 June 1946, Major Orlik was attacked by a group of UB and MO soldiers and officers near the village of Piotrówek, Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Twice wounded trying to escape, he died from gunshot wounds. Like many of the steadfast soldiers, he was buried in an unknown place because he was to be erased from national memory. Patriotic and religious ceremonies in Ryki were held under the national patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. The event began with Mass. in the Church of St. The most holy Savior in Ryki with the participation of a military honorary aide, during which the Silver Cross of the Order of War of Virtuti Militari was placed as a vote. Marian Bernaciak, Orlik in 1945. The place of the ceremony was special. It was in this church that, after the tragic death of Orlik in 1946, residents gathered in spite of the bans and persecutions at the funeral service at an empty coffin. Then the Chamber of Remembrance was solemnly opened. Mariana Bernaciak, Orlika, in the seat of the Municipal and Municipal Centre for Culture in Ryki, over which the honorary patronage was taken by the Institute of National Remembrance Branch in Lublin. The event ended with a patriotic concert. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u575	Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u576	Thank you very much, Marshal. To be honest, since 2005, this is my second parliamentary statement, but I owe it primarily to my constituents, for whom I must tell them why I did not vote in favour of the cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński today, and that I would vote in favour of this appeal, there is no doubt - because Mr Marshal Sejm, among others. In voting, he forbade my political environment from participating in such actually difficult celebrations today, in demonstrations which restore my faith in the fact that Poles are close to the constitution and that the law established in 1997 is the most important and most important for them. I was under the Supreme Court, so that together with the citizens there, not politicians, citizens representing different environments, I would manifest my opposition to what PiS is doing with my homeland. The fact that it destroys the three divisions of power means that we stop being a democratic country, that we stop and we have to stop believing that our cases will be settled fairly by independent courts and independent judges. It's unthinkable. I did not think that once again after 1989 we would fight for the most important things, for civil rights, for our civil liberties. Therefore, because the High Chamber, contrary to all rules in the Sejm which all political groups have so far complied with, did not agree to a break in the proceedings so that some Members could participate under the Supreme Court in protest against the destruction of democracy in Poland. And the latter - today after a long debate on higher education and this reform noisyly called the constitution for universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the man who stood before us in the rank of Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, probably in his CV, apart from the fact that he had finished his studies, can write a little more, but stood before us as a very high official of the state and shouted and in an exceptionally rude way spoke to Members. This young man has the right to think that he has the right to act this way, because his prime minister, the minister, not only the minister, the deputy prime minister Jarosław Gowin, has allowed him to do so, because on this speaker, and also during the committee's deliberations, the ministers of this government often forget... My God, they forgot about the constitution, and why should they remember the Sejm's rules and the three divisions of power? They forget - it is worth reminding them - that it is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland that controls the activities of the government of the Republic of Poland, not the other way around. Therefore, I express not only my deep dissatisfaction, but my deep outrage in such a way as to behave in the parliament of ministers, representatives of executive power towards representatives of the legislative authority. And one more thing. My PESEL has value. This young man's PESEL is certainly different, younger than mine, but that's why I think I need to make this statement so that the young people who will follow him and the young people who might be listening to the Sejm's deliberations know that such behaviour not only does not deserve approval but also deserves absolute, decisive opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u577	Thank you very much. And I ask Mr Jack Wolf, not associated, to make the last statement today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A whole series of protests about the new EU directive, which is about to be adopted, has recently gone through Poland. copyright protection, referred to by an analogy by ACTA 2 Directive. This directive is absolutely unacceptable and it is outrageous at all that someone wants to implement such a directive. Firstly, let us be honest that it will not defend copyright, because the method adopted in this directive is absolutely not suitable for this. The concept of copyright that is being tried to apply, that is, this traditional concept of copyright, was created when there were analog media. During digital media and virtual reality, this is absolutely not suitable for copyright protection to be applied to content posted on the Internet and cannot actually be applied effectively. It's a little bit like we're trying to fix a computer program with a hammer or a screwdriver. It's just impossible. Secondly, no one disputes that copyright is to be protected. It's obvious. The creators should be paid for his work, the author of the work should be paid for his hard work, for his creation. But here we need completely new solutions and completely different, according to a completely different philosophy created, keeping up with the technical development and the reality that we now have. Thirdly, finally, and this is the most outrageous thing, in fact, this directive introduces no less, no more, through the obligation to control users' content, preventive censorship. In a civilized world in many constitutions, including ours, preventive censorship is forbidden. It is unimaginable why the authors of this project and the MEPs voting in favour of this project have failed to take into account the fact that they support preventive censorship. Therefore, a simple question arises: Why has this new concept emerged? ACTA 2, why would someone even think of such an idea, why would they even have this idea, why would it serve? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled, the media is the fourth power, while the weapon of this fourth power is information. This information is precisely the tool by which the fourth power functions, functions and is effective. Whoever controls the information controls the fourth power and at the same time part of the power in general. Whoever controls the information also has control over who comes to power, who exercises it, etc., etc. For this reason, governments have always - always - done their best to control and influence the flow of information. Governments hate this situation when they have no control over the flow of information, and they will always try to do something to limit or control this flow. This cannot be accepted, and for this reason I appeal to all those who will hear these words to take part in the second part of these protests. July 13th will be the second wave of protests against ACTA 2. There is a need for a large presence, because only before a large amount, only before the power is given way. Power is only afraid of strength and it is necessary to show strength, you have to show big agreement, large cooperation, a large number of people who will protest loudly and unambiguously against this new concept. They protest against restricting our freedom, protest against restricting freedom on the Internet, protest against restricting freedom of expression, protest against prevention censorship, protest against restricting our freedom and freedom of expression. So I invite you all, on July 13th you must not miss there, especially young people. It's our duty. It is our duty to protect our freedom and to oppose all attempts at its artificial and improper restraint by means of ineffective means. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-03-sejm-66-1.u579	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 22]]
