ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Truskolas, Mr Myrch, Mr Duszek and Ms Kubiak to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Truskolas and Mr Myrch. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krzysztof Truskolas and Marta Kubiak. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee - immediately after the end of the vote, about an hour. 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This application is print number 2445. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2017 (the Presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union) (print No 2226) together with the position of the Commission for European Union Affairs (print No 2312). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that I can once again present to you a six-monthly report on the work of the European Union, this time during the Estonian Presidency, with particular attention, of course, to those aspects of the work taking place within the European Union, which are of particular importance from the point of view of Polish policy in the European Union. Estonia has decided to divide its agenda into four key themes, such as: an open and innovative Europe, mainly in the sense of building the common market, a secure Europe - for obvious external reasons it was a very important aspect of the Union's work at that time - a digital Europe and an inclusive and sustainable Europe, in particular in the sense of social and environmental policy. As far as this first market aspect is concerned, I think Estonia is a very credible country, which always, like Poland, raises the issue of the importance of the common market for the construction of European integration, the importance of the common market for the role of the European Union in European economic growth. We have had some important declarations here, but it seems that these very important political declarations, which are repeatedly supported by the conclusions of the European Council, are disproportionately strong in relation to the specifics, in particular the legislative ones. The only important element of legislative work at this time in the common market is the work on a European service card. Here, for many years, despite the 25th anniversary of the common market, we are dealing with a huge underdevelopment of the common market. This is the enormous untapped potential of the European Union. Due to the protectionist wave, which is visible in some other Member States, unfortunately there are no very important successes here. Nevertheless, the work on the European service card was strongly supported not only by the Estonian Presidency but also by Poland. We hope that this legislative initiative will bring not only significant administrative constraints on action, in particular transnational, small and medium-sized service providers, but also important changes to the easy mutual recognition of qualifications. The second extremely important part of the work, also from a Polish point of view, is a safe Europe. This chapter focuses on the successful notification of enhanced security cooperation, called PESCO. Poland is one of the founding countries of this cooperation. Poland was a very active participant in the negotiation work on the text of the notification itself, because we have very specific expectations of what is involved in strengthening the role of the European Union in the area of security and defence. Firstly, we want the growing role of the European Union in the area of security and defence to be connected with full synergy, to be built in full synergy with NATO plans. We would not want the political potential of the European Union to serve the separation of roads in the area of security, the strategic interests of the security of the Member States of the European Union, because the great majority of them are simultaneously, like Poland, members of NATO. We have been paying attention - this is also noted in the letter, which is attached to the Polish act of notification - to the fact that the construction of European defence capacity, security must be based on the balance of strategic objectives. The objectives related to threats to European security in the South cannot be achieved at the expense of equally important security challenges in the East. Another third issue of strengthening the European Union's role in the area of security is, of course, the development of financial support instruments for the defence industry. These are work related, although to a large extent parallel, with PESCO. Here we draw attention to the fact that the construction, in particular the provision of significant sums of money in the new financial perspective, of the European Defence Fund must not lead to the oligopolisation of the European defence industry, cannot lead to the fact that dominant players will have an even stronger position and that smaller and medium-sized players to whom Poland belongs will have a difficult opportunity to benefit from European support for the defence industry. These countries, which, like Poland, want to preserve and develop the defence industry, must be guaranteed the full availability of this support for the implementation of their own plans. This has been noted twice in very detailed terms in the conclusions of the European Council. We will try to ensure that these assumptions adopted by the Heads of Government are translated into legislative and budgetary concrete. In terms of Europe's security, the Eastern Partnership summit was an important event, but not a breakthrough. The Eastern Partnership is not enjoying the best years today. The strategic, political remark in recent years, partly for objective reasons, partly for other reasons, has shifted south. In Poland, probably also Estonian, it is in the interest of our region to maintain a strategic balance. This was served by the Eastern Partnership Summit, which, on the one hand, brought the opportunity to make trans-European transport networks available to all the Eastern Partnership countries - a medium-scale step, I would say, but a sensible step in the right direction - and on the other hand, to form an association agreement with Armenia. Poland has been actively involved in the preparation of the Eastern Partnership Summit, pointing to at least two main problems that are still unsolved before us. Firstly, the European Union must find instruments, find an offer for countries that are in various stages advanced in their cooperation with the European Union. There are countries that have basically zero relations, like Belarus, or very limited relations, like Azerbaijan, on the other hand, there are countries that have made enormous progress in bringing them closer to the European Union. I mean, above all, Ukraine and Georgia. These countries, which are now parties to advanced trade agreements, association agreements, visa liberalisation agreements, must also have a political perspective. This is what the Eastern Partnership Summit was used to exchange views on. Polish voice in this matter was very audible, not only during the preparatory phase, but also during the summit itself. The second aspect of Europe's security problem is, of course, the migratory pressure, the pressure associated with uncontrolled migration to Europe and the concerns that this raises in countries that are directly affected by an uncontrolled migration wave. In this area, a legal regime has been developed to support the efficient and rapid exchange of information on visa and visa-free movement at the external borders of the European Union. The two pieces of legislation that govern these principles were agreed during the Estonian Presidency, and this is of paramount importance not only for the further sealing of the European Union's external border, which is one of the priorities of Polish policy in the European Union, but also for building trust in the Schengen system, which has suffered from an uncontrolled and massive migration wave in 2015 and subsequent months. Reforming the European asylum system remains an unsolved problem. In a very large number of areas, we can say an agreement on many aspects of this broad legislative package. There is one issue that does not allow the entire package to be closed. This issue is being pushed all the time to attempt transnational management of refugee traffic in the European Union. Poland is ready to compromise on the whole package of the European asylum system, but it will never agree that even in a crisis situation, control of our border in terms of migration and asylum is in any way affected by transnational management mechanisms. An important element in building an appropriate European response to migration is the creation of a trust fund for Africa. Poland is an active participant not only in this instrument, but also in many other financial instruments which aim to reduce and in the future eliminate the primary causes of migration. This is the right approach, the solidarity and the right European approach to the migration crisis, and in this area the European Union, other countries, in particular countries directly affected by migratory pressure, can fully count on Poland. Estonia has put a great deal of emphasis on the Digital Agenda for obvious reasons. This agenda is drawn up today in the form of at least 16 legislative acts which are necessary to unlock the potential of the Community digital market. They concern not only the principles of digitalisation of public services but also systemic issues, which include the Regulation on the free movement of non-personal data. They are also necessary to unleash investment opportunities that are necessary to build advanced telecommunications infrastructure, in particular 5G, without which it is difficult to imagine a significant qualitative leap in the construction of the digital market. This issue is the subject of, seems, universal support by the heads of government of the Member States of the European Union, while we are still seeing significant delays in strictly legislative work. From the very beginning Poland is one of the countries that are most initiatived, creating political initiatives to support the speeding up of legislative work. We were the initiators of at least two letters on this issue, signed at the level of Heads of Government by 16 Member States. We would like the European Union to act much more ambitiously and more effectively on this issue. The last element I would like to draw attention to, among the issues of the regular agenda of the Estonian Presidency, are the issues of a sustainable Europe which have been interpreted in this case in particular in the field of social and environmental policy. During this period of six months of the Estonian Presidency in the European Union, we had to sign an interinstitutional proclamation on the Pillar of Social Rights. This is an important political document because it confirms the will of all countries, including Poland's will to maintain and develop the European social model. At the same time, however, Poland, during the preparation of this document - it is strongly reflected in the text of this document - pointed out that one European social model does not mean harmonisation, does not mean harmonisation of social policies, does not mean harmonisation of social policy systems. This is an extremely important requirement of competence. We would like it to be quite clear - the words of the proclamation, the words accompanying the conclusions of the European Council - that the proclamation does not change anything about the established competence order between the Member States and the European Union in the field of social policy. Of course, the fundamental fundamental competences in this area must remain on the side of the Member States, because Member States are free to choose the appropriate hierarchy and appropriate social policy instruments so that they correspond to the preferences expressed in the general elections and are the subject of the work of national parliaments. In the social area, although strongly relevant for the future of the common market, negotiations on delegated work should be noted. Poland was one of the leading countries which were and are the opponents of actions which, on the pretext of raising social standards, are actually building barriers in the common market. This was the reason why Poland was unable to support the politically final form of the compromise on delegated work. Nevertheless, I would like to note that the actions of Poland and the region - going beyond Central Europe, it was a much wider coalition - also brought positive, beneficial results. I am talking about extending the period of long-term posting, I am talking about the definition of substitution, the definition of subcontracting, and finally the definition of wage comparison rules. All these concessions, all these elements that mitigate the protectionist nature of this initiative, mean that industries, in particular those best-organized industries that use delegated work mechanisms, will certainly be able to continue to carry out posted work on the European Union's Community market. [[For a year.]] This does not mean that the initiative prepared by the European Commission and then supported by an important group of countries in the European Parliament is worth supporting. For political reasons, Poland will not express its support for initiatives which have a deferred meaning, or perhaps intended purpose, to build protectionist barriers. International transport is an important element missing from the overall assessment of this agenda. Another element of the agreement, compromise in the Council on Social was the transfer of this element of negotiations [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Transport. We're ahead of final decisions on this case. We trust that, in accordance with the agreement so far, we will be able to negotiate rules that will protect international transport from the construction of barriers, important protectionist barriers. To conclude, I would like to note only a difficult but a compromise on climate policy, a difficult one, but a compromise meeting Polish expectations regarding the winter package. We trust that we will be able to keep it through negotiations with the European Parliament, so that the power market in Poland, which was the subject of Parliament's work, can be realized in the coming years. Of course, the completion of the first phase of negotiations with the United Kingdom completely after the thought of Polish expectations in terms of protecting the rights of Polish citizens, as well as the financial clearance of the United Kingdom, and the successful completion of the annual budget for 2018. This work, it can be said, under new political conditions, was a kind of piloting before real negotiations on the new financial framework. If we applied the logic behind the 2018 budget negotiations, we would have a very easy path to reach the right agreement, a balanced agreement on the multiannual financial framework. Budget of 2018...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u5	Minister, please conclude. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...to meet new political expectations, to meet the expectation of financing new policy objectives, while not at the expense of traditional policies - agricultural policy or cohesion policy. According to this logic, it is easy to imagine an effective transition through a very difficult negotiation period for the multiannual financial framework. Leaving this logic will mean a crisis in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you so much, and I'm sorry for the time. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: It was a shortcut. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I now ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the European Union Commission for the fifth time and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2017 (the Presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union). Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Presidency of Estonia was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 9 January 2018 and forwarded to the High House on 26 January. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared in cooperation with ministries and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. It's already 28. The half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the successive periods of the presidency. The Commission for European Union Affairs considered the information provided in print 2226 at its 187th meeting on 28 February 2018. This information was presented on behalf of the Council of Ministers by Minister Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the progress and achievements of the Estonian Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Estonian Presidency has focused its efforts on the following issues: firstly, an open and innovative economy, secondly, a secure and secure Europe, thirdly a digital Europe, fourthly an inclusive and sustainable Europe. As regards the open and innovative economy, the Presidency's work focused on implementing the concept of a Community market strategy. From the point of view of the Polish government, legislative work on the European Service Card was particularly interesting. The second issue discussed in the Presidency's work was a secure and protected Europe. The Presidency has guided its efforts to establish a PESCO - structured cooperation on the security of European countries. In the end, 25 European countries have decided to join this project. It should be stressed that Poland was one of the founding countries of PESCO. As part of the development of European security policy, Poland strongly stressed the adequacy of this policy for all countries affected by threats, both from the east and the south. In addition, the Eastern Partnership Summit managed to create T&T infrastructure support instruments. From the point of view of the development of the Eastern Partnership, success has also been recorded in the signing of an association agreement with Armenia. Migration issues were also among the issues of interest to the Presidency. A Trust Fund for Africa has been set up and an agreement has been reached at transnational level on European legal tools to control the crossing of the European Union's external border. Both issues were supported by the Polish government. The reform of the asylum system, specifically the permanent system for the allocation of refugee traffic between Member States, remains an unsolved issue. Digital elements were an important issue of the Presidency's work. During the Tallinn Summit, the free movement of non-personal data was promoted. From the point of view of the Polish government, it is important to introduce standards in the digital field on the Community market, as well as to develop mechanisms that will help the development of infrastructure and which are necessary for the development of the digital market. These solutions were also intended to enable effective tax enforcement of digital companies. It is worth noting that Poland is one of the promoters of an ambitious approach to taxation of the digital sector. The last part of the work of the Estonian Presidency was the idea of a sustainable development of Europe. The greatest controversy in this regard was the attempt to regulate stricter rules on delegated work. The formative type of compromise does not fully meet Polish expectations, especially from the point of view of the interest of the transport industry, which is by nature cross-border and requires a detailed legal regime in the form of appropriate derogations. The second important element of the Presidency's work was the proclamation of the Pillar of Social Rights signed in Gothenburg by the institutions of the European Union. From a Polish point of view, it was important to stress that the proclamation does not change anything in terms of competence order or very limited legal basis for the shaping of social policy by the European Union, especially with legislative instruments. During the Estonian Presidency negotiations were concluded and a general position on the ETS was adopted. We have been dealing with clear steps towards reaching out to the Polish expectations, but we expect even better results. A reasonable compromise was established on the annual budget of the European Union. We have managed to meet the financial expectations, in particular as regards the new problems facing the European Union, e.g. migration-related. On the other hand, this did not happen at the expense of allocation, which is attributed to agricultural policy and cohesion policy, which is our goal in the beginning of the debate on the new financial perspective. In December, negotiations on the first phase of brexitu were considered to have made sufficient progress in order to move on to a discussion on new relations and, in the meantime, to a discussion on the British proposal to establish a transitional period between the date of Britain's departure from the European Union and the date of negotiation and ratification of a possible agreement which will shape the ambitious nature of the new relationship between Great Britain and the European Union once membership has ceased. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the Commission for European Affairs, I would like to emphasise once again that the Estonian Presidency is also a time for the active work of the Commission for European Affairs. During the presidency of Estonia to the Council of the European Union, the committee held 34 meetings, examined 401 European Union documents, including 45 draft legislative acts, adopted four opinions. In addition, the committee took note of the information from the Commissioner for Transport, Ms Violeta Bulc, on the new transport proposals presented by the European Commission within the framework of the Europe on the move package and the European Union's transport policy. Information on the European Union's youth policy and its agendas and the resulting demands for the implementation of the state's youth strategy in Poland and the development of youth policy in Poland were also heard. During the away meeting in Katowice, a dissertation was adopted on support for actions concerning the modification of unfavourable provisions for Poland proposed by the European Commission in the new energy package - clean energy for all Europeans. The Dezyderat was an initiative of the committee and was addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. As every year, the committee took note of the annual report by the European Court of Auditors on the implementation of the European Union budget in 2016, presented by Janusz Wojciechowski. In the course of the committee's work, the appointment as Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union was also assessed. The Permanent Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union and the Emergency Sub-Committee on Energy Policy of the European Union remain active within the European Union. I would like to stress that the Law of 8 October 2010 on the cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, so-called. The law of competence allows the committee to obtain current information about the government's activities in the European arena, from which the Commission for European Affairs makes reasonable and meticulous use. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking into account the well-prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thanking the Minister for his in-kind dialogue with the members of the committee, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Sejm in which the Polish Parliament accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during July-December 2017 under the leadership of Estonia in the Council of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u7	Thank you very much, Member. Dear Members, I am pleased to welcome to the gallery young people from elementary school No 5 in Jasl, as well as schools in Shebnia and Osieku Jasielski. Very cordial greetings. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Dear Members, Mr Szymański presented, first of all, the Presidency's priorities, the Presidency's course, and how the Polish government's activity was reflected, how the government reacted to the challenges that the Estonian Presidency had faced. Madam Kloc added this information, because indeed the European Union's Committee on Affairs has been constantly reviewing the work carried out during the Presidency and the assessment contained in this information presented after the Presidency... I will remind you that we are actually carrying out this assessment in the fourth month of the new Presidency, the Bulgarian Presidency, so we need to go back a little bit and remember how the Estonian Presidency was going through, because it has its continuation in some areas, the activities carried out during the current Bulgarian Presidency. I will try not to repeat these issues so as not to bore you, but I will draw attention to matters that seem important from a Polish point of view, issues in which Poland was actively involved in those priorities which were highlighted by the Estonian Presidency. Thus, in the first priority, namely the open and innovative European economy, it is worth noting that Poland, the Government of the Republic of Poland actively participates in the process of reform of the Economic and Monetary Union. The priority remains to maintain the full transparency and openness of this process to non-euro area countries. It is also worth noting, Mr Szymański said, that progress has been made in implementing the e-card of services. This is indeed a major barrier to the free movement of entrepreneurship. There are great hopes that the introduction of this solution will contribute to reducing these barriers and will actually improve this one of the basic four freedoms of the Union. Of course, this is also about the budget. The establishment of the 2018 budget is also a success of the Polish government. [[Yeah, we're already happy for you.]] I would like to remind you that, above all, the financing of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, i.e. budget departments of particular importance for Poland, at a level that enables the effective implementation of these policies. Of course, we are also happy with things that may be smaller, but also important, such as the increase in Erasmus spending or the allocation of resources for strategic communication and, of course, support for the protection of external borders and security in the European Union. I mention this under priority one, although of course this could also be included in priority two - it is a secure and protected Europe - because it also matters here. Within this priority, the second thing that was finalised in December and is, of course, a result of much longer actions than those undertaken during the Estonian Presidency, although this finale took place in December, i.e. during the Estonian Presidency, is the closure of preparations and the establishment of PESCO cooperation - permanent structural cooperation in the field of defence. This political project, on the one hand, gives a certain hope of maintaining the cohesion of the European Union in the face of brexite and after brexite - in the area of security and defence, on the other hand, gives hope that Europe will take greater responsibility for its security, thereby reducing the transatlantic disparities in its contribution to this security. Of course, we are in favour of PESCO's cooperation being not competitive but complementary to North Atlantic cooperation. In September 2017, the unfortunate relocation decisions, which were an expression of helplessness and misguided approach of the European Union to the issue of migratory pressure from the South, ceased to apply formally. Poland has consistently advocated here against any mandatory automatic mechanisms for redistribution of refugees. Poland is not only against, but also actively participates in proposing aid solutions there, on the spot. Here we are consistent, resources allocated to help on the spot, in the Middle East are systematically increased. The Polish Government rightly stated that such mechanisms are a prescription here, and any mechanisms... This is how European solidarity is understood, i.e. solidarity which respects the views of the Member States and the pre-imposed redistribution mechanisms they do not mean this properly understood solidarity. Of course, it is happy that the Eastern Partnership Summit took place, although there was no breakthrough here. Indeed, Poland seeks to balance the view of the East, so that it is equally detailed, as much as it is for the countries of the European Union as the view of the South. It can be said that the success of this summit is to decide on the extension of the trans-European transport network to the Eastern Partnership countries, and that is of course what we welcome with satisfaction. Finally, these digital issues, the third priority, are important for the Estonian Presidency. Poland, of course, also wants to strengthen the digital sector, especially where it can serve the public sector, i.e. strengthening the participation of citizens, facilitating their lives in the provision of various administrative services. Poland consistently, not only during the Estonian Presidency, supports this direction and this direction was also supported at the digital summit held in Tallinn. Finally, priority four, namely inclusive, sustainable Europe. In fact, it is difficult to be satisfied that protectionist solutions have been decided. Of course, we are talking about the Posting of Workers Directive. As far as possible, the Polish government tried to weaken these poor protectionist tendencies through derogations or exemptions. [[It didn't work.]] The same applies to emissions trading. Here too are solutions that from the point of view of the specifics of our energy mix are dangerous, and that's all. How much could be fought out, how many of these threats could be removed, how much was done. We would like the European Union to better understand the challenges facing countries with a specific energy mix in the future. It must also be respected that, so to speak, their economic opportunities, their prospects for economic development. The last issue, which goes beyond the four priorities of the Presidency, because it is also a bit alongside the Presidency's main agenda, is, of course, the issue of Brexit negotiations. These negotiations are taking place alongside the Presidency due to their nature. But it is worth noting here that thanks to an active attitude, thanks to constant contact, participation in the formulation of the negotiating mandate of the European Commission, it can be said that Poland has ensured the full implementation of our interests. The arrangements made during the first phase of the negotiations meet the expectations of Poland, guarantee the protection of citizens' rights, including access of Polish citizens to the labour market, public services, social security on equal terms with British citizens. The direct effect of the exit agreement and the taking into account of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union by the courts of the United Kingdom is also guaranteed. The main negotiating objective, which was to minimise the risk of the financial gap, was also achieved. Here all these threats, challenges - it was said that Poland could be harmed by Brexit in some way, after all we are not happy with Brexit, but we must somehow try to meet this challenge - it seems, we have managed to meet basically 100%. Ladies and gentlemen! The information presented seems complementary, full, detailed. Thank you again for this, Minister. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u9	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Estonia is less than 1.5 million people. You really need to be aware of the great challenge that this small but proud and ambitious nation has taken up. The Agenda and the Presidency, the way this Presidency conducts, are of great respect. We must remember that Estonia is a small country, but actually lying on the eastern front of NATO, on the eastern flank of the European Union, really facing a threat from Russia, really facing not only a potential threat but a real threat. I remember how much support all Pribaltika, Estonia, also, gave us, Poland, during the Polish Presidency, how important it was to us, because it was prestigious, how important it was to the Union, because it was a big, important Presidency of the country from Eastern Europe. It is with sadness that I must say here today that the second important and ambitious one, because it was a very ambitious Presidency, Central and Eastern Europe, did not meet with the support of Poland. I'm afraid you're... Our entire agenda during this six-month period was across the Estonian agenda. This means that you did not support Estonia in any important matter, and this was not only important for Estonia, it was important for Central and Eastern Europe. You're talking about PESCO. Do you remember Mr Macierewicz's speeches? After all, it was you who blocked PESCO, it was the Polish government who blocked it. an agreement on this. You say that the Polish government is one of those that signed up for it, but you forgot to say that at the end. You forgot to say that the project, which is important from the point of view of Europe, which is important from the point of view of Poland's security, was blocked by you, was blocked by Poland. It's something extraordinary. The question, many years... After all, your President even said that Europe is vulnerable and Europe must arm itself. And the moment Europe does it, with American support, you say it, and you were still against it. When Europe was armed, a Europe that did not want to be vulnerable, you were against it. You broke the unity of Central and Eastern Europe and acted against the interests of Central and Eastern Europe. You're not a bike, you're not a leader. You've lost this position not for yourselves, but for all of us. Social Europe. You guys made it impossible, you'd think. On the one hand, you have challenged the social Europe project and are still questioning it, and on the other hand you have really lost the only privileges or competitive advantages that we had: posted workers. You didn't get involved in the project, no. If you said this: we are involved in the project, but the price is to maintain competitiveness, it would be some success, and you lost both at the expense of Poland, at the expense of citizens, at the expense of the Polish economy. The only thing left is your well-being. The only one. The consequences, the consequences will be borne as Poland. You said you negotiated something at the last minute. You forgot to tell me what you lost, and you really lost the whole thing, I mean. the year of posted workers. There were not such bad projects in the European Parliament before you started negotiating. The effect is that we have absolutely extreme solutions. Digital Agenda. If someone in Europe says, " Estonia," the first thing they think about is the digital agenda. How you led, how you got involved in these negotiations, said your minister - for four months or five months the minister could not, could not get to the Prime Minister. That is your contribution to the Estonian Presidency. The worst part is that you left behind such a bad impression that we are absolutely not the way to Europe, to Estonia, or to Pribaltika, who are really, not potentially, facing a Russian threat. They have a feeling that we are some kind of mountains that need to be crossed, some obstacles that need to be overcome before some solidarity and European community is built, and it should not have been. And the last thing you didn't say here, Art. 7. How to report and not talk about Article. Seven? It's a skill, it's actually a great skill. You're supposed to have a dialogue. The atmosphere, the way, the climate of this dialogue we had here yesterday. You in Europe are saying that you are improving the law that you are trying to correct a law that is contrary to the Constitution. You're trying to preserve the independence of the judiciary in the atmosphere that was here yesterday. Who can believe that? This is absolutely ridiculous. Yesterday you destroyed the fundamental foundations of any dialogue. That's not how you talk in Europe. Maybe that's how the Huns talked, maybe somewhere in the Far East, that's how they talk in parliaments, but not in Europe. Everyone who sees it, who sees it, knows that you don't know what it means to be a European democratic state. And sad, because it seemed that we were able to stop this process, that you were able to make some reflection. The problem is that you're doing some reflection, but you're not able to do it, because it's stronger than you are. These anti-democratic tendencies are simply stronger, stronger than you. And this is all at the expense of democratic Poland, European Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u11	Mr Tomasz Nowak will also speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem is that the Polish government is dramatically marginalised in the European Union. What was the surroundings of this Presidency and the actions of the Polish government? First of all, the start of the Article procedure. 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Secondly, the risk that the amount of the budget will depend on compliance with the rule of law from 2021 to 2027. It is beginning to talk about this in the Union in the context of Poland. Appeal from the role of Vice-President of the European Parliament, MEP Richard Czarnecki, for an outrageous statement on moneymakers. The increasing escalation in Poland of the dislike for the European Union by the statements of the members of the PiS about the Union as an external union towards Poland, a foreign one. Scaling up the opposition that defends the rule of law in Poland. It is referred to as betrayal at the service of Germany or France. And the loneliness of Poland in the European Union, huge loss of image. How does that work? It undermines the effectiveness of the Polish government during the negotiation process. First of all, we've all fought, and this is where we said we'd defend, for example. a coefficient of 550 grams CO2 emissions per kWh as independence. There have been meetings in the European Union's Committee on Affairs with the Environment Commissioners. You said, even if the tanks came, you wouldn't agree to it. So? You agreed and signed this agreement. And that's gonna... Yes, the result is, there are some extensions, coal power plants will be able to benefit from aid within the power market until 2031, but in general you need to change the whole strategy as a result and say clearly: the end of coal, only you are afraid to say it. This time is coming as a result of the negotiation process that you are conducting in the European Union. Secondly, very expensive for transport companies, unfortunately threatening their collapse, is what was happening about posted workers. The posting period will be 12 and 18 months with a 3-year transposition period, so you have achieved something, but as a result of your negotiation process you have also achieved that you must clearly tell transport companies: no more competitive advantages. Crisis of Polish migration policy. The European Commission has sent a request against Poland to the Court of Justice for not having received a single refugee from the quota hand, Poland has failed to comply with the obligations of the Member State. The Polish government rejected the proposal to establish a mandatory and automatic mechanism for the allocation of persons and opposed the creation of an asylum agency. These proposals were at the heart of the reform of the Common European Asylum System. Finally, the defeat of Minister Szyszka's climate policy, which boasted that, as part of the Paris climate agreement, forests would be considered as CO2 sinks. So? And that's not what happened. You have therefore opposed the arrangements in this area. The Estonian Presidency dealt with the reform of Economic and Monetary Union. However, there is no active Polish policy in response to the threat to Europe resulting from building a Europe of two speeds. Here in Poland, we must clearly answer ourselves, hold a debate from which you are fleeing: What about Poland? Will we be in the euro area, or will we be outside the euro area? Do we therefore agree to marginalize our position or not? Donald Tusk sought to organise Euro Summits extended to non-euro countries. And what did Prime Minister Morawiecki do when he appeared at the summit, the first summit as Prime Minister? He left him when the euro area was closed. [[Applause]] This and many other examples that I have... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yes, sir.]] Unfortunately, time is limited. Mr. Marshal! As a Civic Platform, we ask that information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union be rejected in July-December 2017. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi. There's no envoy. On behalf of the Club, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July-December 2017. This was the presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union. Minister! It was a bad time for Polish diplomacy, it was a bad time for Poland. It is clear that Poland does not have a uniform concept of conducting foreign policy. The Diploma of Nowogrodzka, because that is what it should be called, was dependent on the fluctuations and moods of one of the Members, Mr Kaczyński, who cynically uses foreign affairs resorts for internal games. This fact therefore shows the scale of the fall of our country's importance in the international arena since PiS took power. I do not want to mention the statement made by President Andrzej Duda, who originated from the PiS, which compared the European Union to the possessor. However, focusing on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union by Estonia from July to December 2017, I will mention the things that you forgot to mention. At the very beginning, of course, it is important to raise the issue of initiating the procedure under Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. The actions of the European Commission are the result of a destructive internal policy pursued by the PiS, which is to destroy the judicial authority in Poland, which is to destroy the three divisions of power in Poland. Just watch yesterday's vote on the three laws that were supposed to fix these relations with the European Union. Do you want to correct these relations so that Members are asked to vote, that Members cannot participate in the debate, and that the Marshal merely and exclusively goes to the vote? It was outrageous. Yes, Minister, you will never fix our relationship with the European Union. You think the European Commission can't see that? He sees everything and as scandalous a vote as yesterday should never have been repeated in this Seym. Today, the marshal in the tweet tells the Members to leave the venom in front of the entrance to the Seym. I'm offering you a marshal to do it, too, because what happened yesterday was an outrageous behaviour of your marshal. The event that took place yesterday will definitely be counted by descendants to one of the black cards in the history of our country, in the history of the Polish rule of law and the entire community. [[But we are talking about the Estonian Presidency today.]] Government dialogue with the Commission gives nothing, as evidenced by the reaction of the EU officials to the White Paper, which we can certainly include in the fantasy department. The government of Beata Szydło and now Mateusz Morawiecki is completely dependent on the decision-making centre located not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but at Nowogrodzka, where the Member - as I said before - decides how to conduct a dialogue with the European Union. In discussing this example, it should also be regarded as a scandalous rhetoric of the rulers and related media who practice hate speech against representatives of the European Commission, which according to some are involved in Poland's affairs unjustly. But we are a member of the Community, so if the European Union sees that it is wrong in Poland that the rule of law is being violated, the European Union should react to it. Since the current government is breaking the provisions that are in the Treaties of the European Union, the European Union should react, it should help us to ensure that this government finally stops breaking the law in Poland. The Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was also marked by the battles of the minister of destruction of the environment of Jan Szyszka, who, using the Harvesters, wanted to defend the Białowieża Forest from this supposedly bloodthirsty barker. The conflict quickly, because at the end of July 2017, it moved to the Community level, when the EU Court of Justice applied the so-called. a temporary measure at the request of the European Commission to cease the cutting of trees in the wilderness, allowing the necessary cuts resulting from the preservation of public safety. Unfortunately, this did not happen, the cut-off continued, and then at the end of November the Court of Justice of the European Union declared that if Poland did not stop the cut-off, it would be punishable by a financial penalty of 100,000. Euros a day. It is therefore another loud failure of the PiS government at European level and the fact that Jan Szyszko, Minister Jan Szyszko, fortunately a former minister, does not comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, I hope, will never happen again in our country. Another example of PiS failure at the level of diplomacy is the adoption by the Community of a directive on posted workers. Our diplomacy failed to negotiate a longer transitional period or the possibility of extending posting in exceptional circumstances. Until recently, we were a country that initiated policies at EU level. After the PiS we are addicted to the goodwill of the only ally, Mr. Viktor Orbán, although I would like to remind you that even Viktor Orbán did not stand on your side of the PiS. The policy of PiS instead of raising Poland from its knees, as you have said many times, has spread it on its shoulders. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern One, I request that this information be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u15	The remaining time for the Modern Club will be used by Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When you look from the point of view of Polish policy in this area in the last six months, there are several images left. Without a doubt, Art. 7 is such an element. Today, the Minister spoke about the European democratic package. A democratic package, or actually democracy, is needed in Poland. Yesterday was a scandalous decision. It was said, yes, but you do not know that the marshal who has problems with himself, and the entire Bureau decided to punish the head of the Modern Club for yesterday's behavior. For yesterday's behavior it should be punished, but the Marshal of the Sejm. I hope that you will have such reflection, because it is simply not suitable for conducting the proceedings, it does not deserve to be the second person in the country. [[Is this about Estonia? We're talking about the Presidency.]] Another issue that is very important. In the second half of the year. Poland applied for the seat of two very important agencies: the European Banking Authority and the European Medicines Agency. In connection with the Brexit, as you know, these two agencies, which are so far located in London, will be transferred in the near future. It seemed that the criteria that were prepared for these two new agencies clearly predestined a country such as Poland to have one of these agencies located in Poland. This is a question of the sustainable deployment of agencies. Let me remind you that as one of the largest countries we have only Frontex, for example. Belgium has six locations, France - four, Luxembourg - three, Italy - two, Netherlands - two, Spain - five. It clearly seemed that Poland should compete effectively for the seat of one of these agencies. It didn't work out. We lost to the mole. We didn't stand a chance. And, Minister, don't tell me to ask the capitals of other countries why they voted so. I ask the Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, why he has prepared such ineffective actions, as a result of which the Polish proposals have been taken seriously. This is the problem of Polish policy today within the European Union, because our position is that no one talks to us. Orbán only talks to you if he wants to play you. But we don't have a partner, we don't have an ally. It must be said very clearly that when it comes to choosing priorities, it is more important for Prime Minister Morawiecki to have a fee meeting with PiS than Poland's position. [[♪ The bell ♪]] within the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u17	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to express my position on information about the activities of the Republic of Poland during the six-month Estonian Presidency in the European Union in the second half of last year. This information, in addition to providing it in writing, was issued here by Minister Szymański. And yes, it was a competent speech, but for the first time, Minister, I regret to say that it is not serious. It was ridiculous for the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. Europeans in the Polish Sejm, which is to present the most important key issues with which Poland faced in the European Union. This speech completely ignored the decision of the European Commission of 20 December 2017, i.e. from the Estonian Presidency, which is the decision... I quote: the Council's decision, the European Commission's proposal to identify a clear risk of serious infringement by the Republic of Poland of the rule of law. And that's not one of the marginal issues, because it's a prime issue today. It already affects the effectiveness of Polish policy within the European Union, and in fact creates a risk of taking over the Polish voice and the Polish political importance with sanctions. It undoubtedly reflects the Polish effectiveness in negotiating such important issues as the Posting of Workers Directive, which is crucial for productivity and efficiency, and the cost-effectiveness of many Polish businesses, especially in the field of transport, whether it finally puts a shadow - as Commissioner Oettinger says - on the negotiations of the new multiannual budget of the European Union, where the rule of law is likely to be included at the request of many European countries. And I regret to say once again, Minister, that I remember such a time - it was lately 1980, earlier 1976 - when that authority said: downtime at work. That's what she called serious labour protests, which included many workplaces and touched thousands of Polish workers. This was called interruptions at work at the time. But at least there was a signal. There was a shadow of admitting that there were problems. Unfortunately, I must say that you, on behalf of the government that you represent here, even that standard, have failed to comply with, pretend that there is no problem, and the problem is, because the Council decision of 20 December was the third document on this matter taken within the six months. First there were the European Commission's recommendations of 26 July and then there was the European Parliament resolution of 15 November. So there were three documents concerning Poland directly, Poland directly and issues of the rule of law. And that's why I think, using this time in the debate, that Poles, voters who may be listening to us, maybe they are watching us today, it is worth telling us exactly what the European Union is about and what the Polish government is trying so hard to hide in this debate today in the Sejm. Let me remind you once again: the draft European Council decision prepared by the Commission states that there is a clear risk that the Polish Republic is in serious breach of the rule of law. What's in it for you? What's the reason? What does the European Union expect? It expects the independence and legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal to be restored as a guarantor of the Constitution by ensuring that the President, Vice-President and the Judges of the Tribunal are elected and appointed in accordance with law, as the European Commission makes clear in its recommendations that there are serious legal doubts as to the legality of the election of Mrs Przyłębska and Vice-President Muszyński. Secondly, the European Council or the European Union expects not only the publication but also the full implementation of the judgments of the Court of Justice of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November 2016. Finally, it is expected to ensure that the Law on the Supreme Court, the Law on the System of General Courts and the Act on the National Council of Courts are amended in order to ensure that they comply with the requirements of independence of courts, independence of judges and the division of powers and legal certainty. These changes, which this week, yesterday in the Seym, were pushed through in an outrageous atmosphere - I agree with the statements of my previous speakers - do not guarantee this, do not go in this direction, do not meet the expectations of the European Union. Finally, the European Union expects all forms of justice to be prepared in close cooperation with judicial representatives and all stakeholders, including the Venice Commission, and this is not the case. This hasty procedure without the opinions required during the work of the Justice Committee is clear evidence of this. And the European Union looks forward to refraining from public actions and statements that violate the legitimacy of the tribunal, the Supreme Court, the general courts and judges. This is of course a clear reference to this disgraceful, infamous, publicly funded campaign of the Polish National Foundation. Once again, I would like to remind you of what the European Union particularly cares about. It considers that the dismissal and reassignment of all judges of the Supreme Court, considered in connection with the provisions enabling them to be re-established, constitutes an infringement of the principle of independence of the Supreme Court judges. In short, the automatic group transfer to retirement due to the reduction of the retirement age is, according to the European Commission, incompatible with European standards on the rule of law and does not change the fact that a possible appeal instead of a minister of justice would be addressed to the President. Secondly, establishing the Disciplinary Chamber as you propose - the Commission clearly states - will directly affect the independence of the courts, including the Supreme Court judges. As the European Commission states in its July recommendations, and therefore from the period we are discussing, judges of the Supreme Court may feel pressure to act in accordance with the position of the executive authority when examining cases, because a request for disciplinary action may be initiated on the initiative of the Minister of Justice. I do not blame this record, because indeed Deputy Minister Piebiak claims that this is exactly what the Ministry expects - that judicial judgments be in line with the will of the state, with the party line unfortunately, so it would have to be said today. [[The Presidency's priorities.]] In particular, the Commission calls on the Polish authorities not to take any action leading to the dismissal or relocation of judges of the Supreme Court, as such actions would seriously increase the systemic threat to the rule of law in Poland. It also states that if we already have the National Council of Courts - because not all European countries have the equivalent of the Polish National Council of Courts - more than half of the representatives in this Council should come from the choice of judges. This should be the representation of judges by choice of judges, not, as it was pushed through in the Polish Parliament, by political choice. I will remind you one more thing from that time, from the Presidency period, i.e. the resolution of the European Parliament of 15 November on the rule of law and democracy in Poland, which calls on the Sejm and the government to fully implement all the recommendations of the European Commission, calls on the government to respect the right to freedom of assembly by removing from the current Assembly Act the provisions on priority treatment of the so-called. cyclical meetings and calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland to repeal the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - the Centre for Civil Society Development, which, according to the European Parliament - and I share this opinion - makes access to public funds difficult for critical groups of civil society. These are passages - I quoted them - three important documents adopted by two of the three most important institutions of the European Union, which you, Minister, and Madam President, have not even mentioned in your speeches on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I am proposing an amendment to the resolution proposed by Mrs Kloc, which states that the Polish Parliament does not accept information from ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2017, precisely because this information ignores the key issues due to the rights and civil liberties of Poles - independence and the rule of law, independence of courts and the rule of law in Poland and the position of Poland in the European Union, it ignores this issue that I was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u19	Mr President, this is only possible at second reading. Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The questions were raised by 8 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for questions for one minute. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Digitisation it is indeed the main determinant of this Presidency. The Estonian Presidency put particular emphasis on this - a digitalisation summit was held and a policy was pursued to create a new generation of 5G technology. Just tell me what the document that the Polish government has just prepared as part of the launch of the new 5G technology looks like. And is it true that there are no legal regulations in it that will just make it go away? Please tell me how it is that, at a time when Europe puts this into digitalisation, we are eliminating the Ministry of Digitalization and firing the minister who, at this process, so to speak, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He ate his teeth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u21	The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I respect you very much, but I sympathize with you because you forgot to mention the nuclear weapon that the European Commission launched against Poland under the PiS rule on 20 December 2017. 7. Today I went on Twitter and saw a tweet by Marshal Kuchciński: I ask you to leave the venom at the front door of the plenary room or in the locker room. I thought about such a famous dialogue - a dialogue that you also want to conduct with the European Commission - which was the owner of a locker room number in the film "Barei Bear." Client gives the lockerman a number: Here's a coat. And the locker roomman: We don't have your coat, and what are you gonna do? And this is the dialogue that Marshal Kuchciński had with us yesterday in this House. But this dialogue also resembles a dialogue, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the government runs in the European forum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u23	Mr Lech Kołakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is clear that these positions, the assessment of the opposition, the opposition politicians are very political. But I understand the opposition has every right to do that. I would like to thank you, Minister, for the actions of the Polish government, ministries, for the Polish actions on relocation of refugees. These actions have made Poland the safest country today. Let's go in that direction. However, I would like to ask, Minister, if it is possible to obtain additional resources from the European Union for helping Poles from the East, for refugees. It's about helping those people out there who really expect help. In view of the Polish position, it must be said that Poland is a great country of the European Union in the east, and for this reason we also have Polish responsibilities. Is it possible to raise additional funds from the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u25	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u26	Minister! Between 6 and 7 July Ub. The Tri-Morch Initiative Summit took place in Warsaw with the participation of President Trump. You don't mention it, and you don't mention it in information either. Estonia lies on the one hand in the initiative of the Tri-marriage and Bulgaria on the other. These two seas set the scope of this initiative. We have a year of Presidency of countries that should be our allies in this initiative. Not a word about it in the news. The press reported: engagement in Dubrovnik, wedding in Warsaw. And where will the divorce be? In Sofia, maybe in Varna? It's not like there's anything going on here. Please inform me. It's supposed to be your key initiative. You were terribly proud of that and not a word. And the thing is big, because I hear that you need EUR 615 billion for the projects that 12 countries are dreaming of. Please explain what happened to the Tri-marine initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u27	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the meetings of the euro area countries. Until now, Poland has been invited to these meetings. These are very important meetings, important decisions are made there. We weren't invited to the last meeting. I wanted to ask why. In my opinion, this is the further marginalization of Poland in the European Union, at our very request. Such situations of pushing us to the margin are much more and they are of greater quality. Our voice in the Union sounds quieter and does not convince anyone anymore. What's next? The strategy of waiting out Brussels is no longer working on anyone. Is there any idea that our role and our participation in the European Union should be stronger and more important? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u29	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question actually to the Minister, perhaps also for the sake of caring for his mental state: how do you feel when you represent such wretched positions, deceiving positions of the Polish government, which you voluntarily present to people? You, as an intelligent man, must realize what you are presenting. An example: you are talking about the desire in the European Union for independence of the Polish court. The Cracow trial controlled by the Minister, the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra, against doctors treating his father is a clear example of subjugating the justice system to politicians who, out of revenge, are also trying to destroy the achievements of these professors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u31	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I wanted to ask, because, to be honest, after all the voices that came from the opposition Members, I was wondering - I didn't find it, maybe not enough detail. I was looking - where, in the priorities of the Estonian Presidency, you saw the question of art. 7, discussing details of the Constitutional Court and Supreme Court laws. I am also curious where you found the discussion on the appeal of President Czarnecki in the European Parliament. How is the Estonian Presidency concerned with the tweet of Marshal Kuchciński - this was mentioned twice - to yesterday's votes, to the Białowieża Forest, to Minister Ziobro? I am in favour of such a point - in fact, statements should be such a point of sitting of the Sejm - when you talk about everything, because you talk about everything, but there was relatively little about what you should talk about, that is about information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the Estonian Presidency. So I'm asking you where you found it in this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u33	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before the elections and later after the elections, the government promised that it would care about coal, that it is our primary good, on the basis of which we will build this energy for Poland. Last year is a winter package work. The government has declared active action in this area, very active action has also been shown by the European Commission, we have written deziderates, we have visited the European Union, we have met with representatives of the European Union, we have talked about fighting for coal, we have talked about changing the CO2 emission rate that the Union has set below 550 to support coal installations. Minister! This is some kind of tragedy, a government failure in this area. Tell the Poles that you haven't won anything, that there will be no more coal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the extraction is falling, we have less and less coal, we are bringing more and more coal from abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u36	Tell the Poles, the Silesians, that there will be no coal, that we are rolling coal, not building coal energy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u37	Thank you very much. Now the list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Izabela Kloc, will therefore take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to thank all the parliamentarians, the members of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, for their solid work in this committee, for the fact that our debates with regard to people from the government group and those from the opposition are indeed at a good level, above all substantively. That's what I wanted to thank you all for. I would also like to thank the Minister, but also all the other ministers who represent the government during the work of this committee, these are debates of integrity, reports of integrity and reliable information. I only regret that this working atmosphere of the European Union Commission has not been transferred as an example to the plenary room, because one particular speech... As chief, I'd have to, I'd say, remind a colleague of the committee: really, let's respect each other. We should all really respect each other, which is why I have to say at this point that I didn't like it very much, and I don't agree with the sarcastic image creation of people and members of the committee. Mr Truskolas has behaved in this case in my opinion out of place. This is not what we do at the meetings of our committee and I would like to say at this point that the Member whom Mr Truskolas spoke about is the President of Law and Justice, Jarosław Kaczyński, the head of the biggest party in Poland, who has the greatest trust in Poles and I ask for respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Traitorous faces.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u39	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, none of the questions raised were related to the Estonian Presidency's programme. Of course, I promise a reliable answer to all these questions, but certainly not in this mode, because unfortunately they were quite distant from the subject of our debate. Parliamentary debate, of course, has rights, that is obvious. You have the right not only to evaluate, but also to select rhetoric, you also have the right to assess seriousness. I have that right, too, and of course I will enjoy that right today. You have the right to be judged, but not at the expense of the facts. As far as the corrigendum is concerned, I would only like to refer to the facts. Some of you considered that the best way to exercise your parliamentary mandate was to become a spokesman for Brussels, other capitals. Tonight, for a change, Tallinn. Of course, I would appeal to you to find a moment and a moment of attention to be the spokesperson of Warsaw's right, although from time to time. I assure you that Warsaw is sometimes right in EU disputes, and many of the disputes we have been talking about are disputes in which Warsaw is right, and other capitals are wrong, which the state takes very hard, which seems to be an element of EU relations. Sometimes even the capital of our own country, even the government we are opposed to, is right. [[Applause]] I think Tallinn... [[Voice from the room: It's close.]] I think that Tallinn in particular does not need emotional advocates who, in fact, this proud country, Estonia, in a century of independence, are pushing Pribaltica into the bag. I think Estonia's century of independence is a very good time to get rid of this Soviet jargon in the Polish Parliament. I was talking about your right to review, it is quite obvious, it is not open to discussion, but you certainly do not have the right to build these charades at the expense of - ostentatious cost - facts. The facts are that, together with Estonia, the Polish government, before the six months we are talking about, jointly carried out initiatives on the European service card, jointly made the notification of the PESCO, jointly prepared the Eastern Partnership Summit, jointly armed the European Union's external border with the instruments I was talking about concerning the flow of information, finally jointly set up a trust fund, jointly engaged in the development of the digital market, which is facing difficulties, obstacles certainly not in Tallinn, certainly not in Warsaw - elsewhere your attention should be concentrated - perhaps in capitals about which you would not want to say one bad word. The Polish government, together with the Estonian Presidency, worked for a reasonable promotion of social affairs. Finally, the facts are that all transport decisions - in this respect also, I believe, together with Tallinn - have been transferred to the Transport Council as a result of a reasonable Polish policy of resistance to protectionism. The facts are that with regard to ETS, the Polish government secured the envelope 60% free allowances for the electricity sector instead of the base 40%. The Polish government assured that the reduction rate in terms of non-ETS dropped from 7% to 0.4%. The facts are that the Prime Minister - and here's the point, because you repeat this lie again - did not miss any summit of the euro area. Check it out wherever you want, I won't do any recommendations here, but check it out in sources that are reliable, because you're repeating things that aren't true. The facts are that the winter package is indeed extremely difficult and not transparently prepared by the European Commission. I think this is a very good example of a matter that you might have raised in your contacts with the European Commission, because I am not sure that it is fully in line with the rule of law standards to prepare legislation in the European Union in the manner that the winter package has been prepared. But the facts are that the Polish power market, which today is a necessary condition and the only real instrument for maintaining electricity, which is, after all, the main consumer of coal, at the level of the Council of the European Union - I am not sure about the parliament in which you so believe on all possible occasions - where the Polish government has a voice, has been protected from the disastrous consequences of the potential use of the benchmark: 550 g since the entry into force of this unfortunate legislation. This period of 6 months showed - once again, another 6 months - that Poland is capable of compromise, it is capable of working with all European partners, but of course not at all costs. We have shown that, when our interests or beliefs are at stake - there has been a matter here at a time where beliefs are also important - we are able to withstand the pressure not only of some Member States but also of the institutions of the European Union. I am absolutely disappointed that after a period of 2.5 years, during the fifth debate, the opposition is unable to understand this. [[Applause]] [[There were specific questions, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? You're welcome, sir. Two minutes. [[How much time do I have?]] Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u42	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Two minutes, so very short. I do not know if the Minister's words were also addressed to me, but I would like to say one thing. Where the Polish government deserves support, such as on the work on the Posting of Workers Directive, from the opposition, and in any case from my club, this support is received, but certainly do not count on the Polish government to receive support on our view of destroying the rule of law in Poland, introducing standards that are against not only European standards, but, I would say, Western standards, as they also provide, well, maybe not official documents, but statements, also American or British, politicians, so in this matter, Minister, do not expect the opposition to stand with you, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister in destroying the rule of law in Poland. Second point - to Mr Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk. The theme, the title of this point, which we are currently debating, is: information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2017, in parenthesis: the Presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union, and therefore this is not limited to the agenda proposed by Estonia, but concerns this half-yearly period of work, and during these half-yearly work, as I am trying to demonstrate, there were at least three documents, two prepared by the Commission and one by the European Parliament on the state of the rule of law in our country. And that is why I am once again proposing an amendment that says that the Sejm does not accept this information precisely because it is lacking in this information - in both written and verbal form, in this debate here expressed by the Minister - any reference to matters relating to the rule of law. Regardless of this amendment, we will vote in favour of the proposals to reject this information if they are put to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform, also spoke. You're welcome. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the procedural fact that we cannot report rejection at first reading, we propose an amendment on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, we request an amendment, which concerns the information from print no.2226, which reads: The Polish Parliament does not accept information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Polish Republic in the work during July-December 2017, print no.2226. Minister! With all due respect, please note that we very often agree with the government's demands and with what the government wants to do just in the negotiation process in the European Union, we merely state that there is a lack of political capacity to implement certain of our points. If we are talking about an environment that is at the moment unfavorable to Poland's position in the European Union, we are talking about the fact that Poland itself deprives itself of certain negotiating tools, having trouble e.g. with the building of a majority or a blocking minority, with a yellow card procedure, etc. We fully supported the Polish government on the issue of e.g. 550 g/kWh, fully. Here, in the Sejm, in committees, during meetings we fully support the government's policy and position on migration policy, I apologize, of course, about posting workers, but unfortunately we find that the Polish government is unable to cope with this. That's the question. Why can't she handle it? Couldn't the benchmark be crossed? 550, really gas, and go to benchmark [[♪ The bell ♪]] Carbon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u45	Thank you very much. Three other Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u46	Minister! Was the question of the Tri-More a vicious, unsubstantiated, unsubstantiated question? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Unrelated.]] No, it was tied up. Totally. We are talking about the situation in which Estonia belongs to this initiative, and I asked you whether or not Poland has made any progress on this initiative during this Presidency. When should alliances be built for such projects? When, how not now, when on the one hand we had Estonia and on the other hand we have Bulgaria? And you're going to keep your mouth shut. This is our operation, this is our priorities, this is our state right. You were proud of it. You're going to ignore it and not say a word about it. I do not take note of the plaza which you have been kind to us because I believe that the Tri-marine initiative must be spoken of every time, or at least should be devoted to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a fragment, because information is about what Poland as part of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u47	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Important issue: Eastern Partnership. We were indeed co-creators of the Eastern Partnership policy and were a kind of ambassador for this policy within the European Union. I have a question: how do you see our role in building a more ambitious Eastern Partnership policy at the moment? You yourself said in the document we are talking about that this policy was unambitious. Why was she unambitious? Did we not make proposals that were more ambitious, or did we give, but we did not achieve a positive result as a result of the opposite? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u49	Thank you. Now Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to inform you that the opposition was actively involved in supporting the government on this emission factor of 550 g CO2 per kWh. A European Union committee meeting took place in Silesia. We wrote a dissertation to support the government. We participated in meetings with representatives of the European Union here in the Sejm. I remember exactly how the then chairman of the Energy Commission and the Treasury said that we would defend this indicator with tanks. Tell me how many countries of the European Union have supported our actions. What was the number of countries that supported us in our discussions on this indicator? The Winter Package is one of the main documents related to the Energy Union, so we cannot leave this subject behind and say no. The opposition, also taking part in the responsibility for fighting for these indicators, repeatedly [[♪ The bell ♪]] She confirmed that this was the right thing to do. On the other hand, the effectiveness of the government is minimal in this regard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to this part of information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the second part of last year, which concerns agriculture. The first point I would like to ask is the protection of the EU, including the Polish market, against excessive imports of cereals. Poland has a potential in this area, which causes structural overproduction of grain. On the other hand, Ukraine has a huge potential, which has special preferences for sending grain quotas to our markets. What steps did the government take to protect our market from grain imports from Ukraine? The second issue concerns the future and the common agricultural policy after 2020. It welcomes our position expressing the wish to maintain the CAP, confirming the relevance of its tasks, the need to maintain strong funding, so it is a big budget, and what is very important, to seek to balance the level of direct payments and to move away from the differences in the level of support that reflected the intensity of production from a dozen years ago. What is the issue of creating a unified strong front for pushing these demands forward, and how is their reality assessed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u53	In view of the fact that, at the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this draft proposal after giving the Members a statement of the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 12. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 36 hours 12 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. The project is print number 2448. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising (print No 2448). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the 75th anniversary of the Uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto. On April 19, 1943, an uprising broke out in the Warsaw Ghetto. It was the first act of armed resistance in the city occupied by the German Third Reich of Europe. Its aim was not to win over the invaders, but to defend the dignity of the Jews who had been exported from July 22, 1942, to the German extermination camp in Treblinka. The heroic struggle against the much larger forces of German invaders was faced by members of the Jewish Fighting Organization, the Jewish Military Union and fighters not associated with these organizations. They fought under the Jewish and Polish flags. The Polish Underground State provided assistance to insurgents, mainly in the supply of weapons, ammunition and food. The unequal fight ended in mid-May 1943. Over 300 thousand Jewish communities, for centuries living in the Polish capital, practically ceased to exist. In protest of 'against the passiveness with which the world looks and allows the destruction of the Jewish people', suicide committed Bundu politicians and a member of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in London Szmul Zygielboym. Some of the few insurgents who survived later fought in the Warsaw Uprising in 1944. The uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto, as well as the armed opposition to the liquidation of the ghettos in Białystok, Czestochowa, Sosnowiec and the rebellions of prisoners of German extermination camps in Sobibor, Treblinka and other localities constitute an important chapter in Poland's history and deserve eternal memory and respect. On the 75th anniversary of the Uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Jewish fighters who expressed their highest heroism and dedication, fighting to defend the universal values of human freedom and dignity. I ask the Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. The formal proposal was made by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. There you go. This is a request for a break. Would you excuse me, sir? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked the Marshal in writing to formally request a recess, to call the Sejm Bureau to reflect and that the Marshal decide to withdraw from the penalty imposed for the head of the Poselski Club Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Yesterday, a decision was taken to punish the Member with a 1/4 cut of the Members' salary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you so much for the applause. I hope that the same applause will be given when we lower Mr President's salary, because he does nothing in this Sejm, he does not even participate in the work of the committee to which he joined, therefore [[Applause]] It is advisable to reduce your salary as a professional Member. [[You don't do anything but scream.]] As for yesterday's deliberations, Mr. Marshal, if I may say so, these were scandalously conducted in our assessment. It was unacceptable not to allow Members of the opposition to ask questions as part of the process on the most important laws concerning all Poles. Ms. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz's refusal as head of the club to apply for a break for the club is also unacceptable. Unfortunately, this behavior, Mr. Marshal, results in a motion to appeal your marshal from the function of Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] I understand some nervousness in the PiS ranks after the latest ratings. I can see that today this smile on the faces of Members of Law and Justice is a little more modest than yesterday. This does not entitle you, this nervousness, to behave this way and treat Polish parliamentarianism so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u55	Thank you very much. This is a request for a break, although the justification is not related to the agenda. I will put this request for a recess to the vote. At the same time, I inform you that the Sejm Bureau has indeed dealt with the matter today. The case is not finished, the appeal procedure is in progress, so at the moment the matter is unobtrusive because it is not completed. We proceed with the vote on the request for a break. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break in the session will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 157 voted against - 239, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the review of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2408-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Olszówka to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Farmers' Insurance Act and some other laws, print No 2334. The Sejm at its 61st meeting on 12 April 2018, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure, re-directed the draft law in print No 2408 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. After considering the 15 amendments at the meeting yesterday, the committees recommend that the two amendments be adopted in detail and that the remaining 13 amendments be rejected in substance and that the law be adopted in full. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u57	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 2408. The additional report presents amendments. We will vote on them first. Amendments 1 to 12 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Social Insurance of Farmers. In the first amendment to Article. 37 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, the PiS vote introduced regulations that significantly limit the supply of foreigners to seasonal work in agriculture, including gardening. This bill is a sure solution to the expectations and mitigation of the bad situation that you have led to. On the other hand, it is worth that this law is directly in line with the expectations of the environment, so it should not make it difficult, but make it easier. The change we are proposing is that a farmer who employs a helper at harvest may be able to make a contract with him, to the KRUS, to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, not, as it is today, within 7 days and within 14 days. The point is that in the case of many seasonal work there is a large period of accumulation. The farmer has to deal with the sale of fruit, he has to take care of their collection, and he doesn't have time to go to the officials. Question to the Minister of Agriculture: Would you like to recommend to your club a change of decision in the vote to support this very good change for Polish farmers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u59	Thank you. Minister Rafał Romanowski will respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This request has been made on several occasions by Mr Maliszewski, but above all we must listen to the demands of the social side. The government project was three days old, and it was in response to the demands of the social side that we raised this dimension to 7 days. Once again, the Member raises the question of 14 days. But it should also be remembered that this new form of civil law contract for the helper in the harvest is such a compensation mainly to Polish farmers who are involved in sadism, gardening, hops and tobacco. Let us respect the demands of the social side. Let us not once again lead the bill of elementary political discussion. It is appropriate for farmers to adopt this law as soon as possible. There were applications for rejection at first reading, which extended the procedure for further weeks. I kindly ask the High House to adopt this law and allow the Senate of the Republic of Poland to deal with this law at a rapid pace, because it should enter into force until the end of April. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u61	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 228, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 40 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u62	First of all, I will explain to Minister Romanowski that, first of all, I am not only a representative of the social side, because I am the head of the largest Polish gardeners' organization in Poland, which has several thousand people, but I am also, second, a sadist who is constantly dealing with these problems, thirdly, I am the one who represents them. In this change, which we are proposing at the moment, we are trying to solve such a situation, that very often seasonal work takes several days, several days. For small plantations, it may be up to three days. Neighborhood assistance is also common in these cases. Neighbor helps a neighbor, which is not legally regulated so far. This amendment means that the employer of the helper in the collections according to your proposal will have to pay contributions for each month, even if this month the employee worked one day, and the point is that we should settle this contribution for days, i.e. if the employee worked 1 day, 2 days, then to pay 1/30, 2/30 contributions. This will, of course, solve many problems that are today when we use the so-called. helping the neighborhood on small plantations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question to the Minister: Would you not like to persuade the members of your club to support this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u63	Thank you. It was actually a similar question. Do you want to answer that question as well? No. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 228, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph 81a. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of Amendment 4. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment concerns the determination of the write-down to the incentive fund at 4%, while the government proposal states that the write-down to this fund will not be less than 4% , which means that the President of the KRUS will be able to raise this rate to 5% or 6%. I think we're all aware that the more money we have on the incentive fund, the less money we have for farmers for treatment, for occupational rehabilitation, or for ensuring the safety of farm work. Question to the Minister: Will the presidents of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund benefit from the incentive fund? I say this in the context of the 2017 awards. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u65	Minister Rafał Romanowski will answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This issue has already been clarified several times. [[She wasn't.]] Please note that the tasks of the contribution fund in the field are carried out by field offices, regional branches of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. It's money spent on an incentive fund for doing tasks in the country... [[For the president, too?]] It's about the contribution fund. This money is intended only and exclusively, Mr... [[Chairman!]] ...for those employees who perform the tasks of the contribution fund. [[The presidents, too?]] I repeat once again: For employees performing the tasks of the contribution fund. [[We ask again: What about the president?]] The Board of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund does not perform such tasks at present. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I repeat: The minimum average bonus for an employee of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is PLN 83. [[Or the president too?]] In addition, it should be borne in mind that as a result of the additional insurance of about 0.5 million helpers in the collections, the number of these tasks will increase dramatically. Let's respect the work of these workers in the field. [[Applause]] [[The question was. You didn't answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u67	I address Mrs Niedziela in particular: do not shout. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 168 votes against and 253 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph 81a. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. There were 163 votes against, 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 91a-91f. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 6 to 12. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment concerns the extension of the plant catalogue to crop mushrooms. I would like to remind you that during the legislative work, the government agreed that tobacco, hops or herbal crops should be included in the system. We are proposing that this catalogue should also be extended to grow mushrooms due to the fact that Poland is the leading producer of mushrooms in the European Union. Therefore, the question to the Minister: Why do you divide farms into those that may be in the system and those that will not benefit from this system? I'm asking you to answer me, to dispel our doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u69	You will answer Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is created just for... It introduces a new form, a helper at harvest, and a new form of civil law agreement. It is created for those sectors where at the expense of producing a specific product in min. 50% consists of labour costs. Let's remember one basic thing: It's the helper in the harvest as part of the so-called work. Seasonal. Cultivated mushrooms are not seasonal crops, they are grown throughout the year. Let us also bear in mind the rights of these helpers in the collections, because the social demands that arise raise the issue of social security or pension protection very strongly. These workers have only accident insurance, health insurance. So let us not expand this catalogue, and simply, the Member himself has noticed this, this law has lived, has been consulted on an ongoing basis during every committee meeting - first of all, let us respect the will of the social side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u71	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 171 voted against - 236, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 91a paragraph. 1.3. Amendments 8, 9, 11 and 12 are combined with this amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 7 and 10. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The social side prefers the cultivation of mushrooms to be covered by these rules. It is also the will of the social side that the cultivation of ornamental plants should also be covered by them. As a result of this change, we are giving you the opportunity to correct the wrong vote from before. Besides, the will of the social side is that the citizen, for example. Ukraine, a foreigner coming to work could, as allowed by the EU directive, which allows the rules that we adopted a few months ago, to work on the farm for 9 months. We give the opportunity thanks to this change, that such a citizen of Ukraine or another country who wants to come to Poland earn money, could work longer than you propose in another farm, i.e. so that he can make full use of the time of his arrival. On the other hand, due to labour market shortages in Poland, it is very economically justified to make full use of the time allowed by international and national rules. In addition, the wish of the social side is that sorting of fruit, vegetables and other products covered by that law may be carried out in producer groups by workers employed on that holding so that they can participate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask the Minister to recommend to his club the support of this change. [[Applause]] [[That wasn't a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u73	Thank you. Mr Marek Suski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture for this bill. We have met with the social side on several occasions in the drafting of this law and many amendments to this law have been taken into account. And I have a question for the Minister: why is this bill prepared now? Why didn't Mr Maliszewski, former Minister of Agriculture, make such a good law for farmers, and today they shed crocodiles tears, become in the interest of the social side, want to add amendments, extend deadlines? All of this was agreed with the social side during many meetings that actually took place at the Prime Minister's firm, and all the amendments of the social side were taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u75	That's too general a question. There was a specific amendment, ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 6, 8, 9, 11 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 172 votes against - 231, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 91a paragraph. 1 applicants propose a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 292, against 112, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 91c paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur: Why does the committee go ahead and recommend tightening up rules, even those which the European Union does not make us tighten up? So we are again introducing more and more regulation than the European Union says. Why does the committee recommend treating farmers as a social group who would like to deceive other seasonal workers and not allow them to pay their pension contributions? After all, we all know that if we continue to introduce such great sharpenings, making it difficult for farmers and all employees, all employers, to tighten the rules in Poland, then Poles will continue to leave. Therefore, I ask that we support this amendment and not go ahead so that we can work and employ in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u77	Thank you. Mr Piotr Olszówka, because the question was for the rapporteur. I can't see. [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] Where's he going? I can't see. [[He's running.]] He's coming, yeah. Please. The committee rapporteur will answer the question, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I propose that we vote on this bill further because it is very important and farmers are waiting for a law that will help in the field work at the moment. I hope that Mr President is in favour of us voting as soon as possible because this bill is needed. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u79	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 50, against 351, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Natural Persons Income Tax Act proposes that the applicant add point 145. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski, club PSL - ED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Before 1 January 2018 there were very good rules regarding the arrival of foreigners. The farmer went to the district labour office, made a one-page statement about his intention to entrust his work and was given practically on the same day a decision which authorised the Ukrainian citizen to obtain a visa. You converted it into a two-stage permit system and additionally introduced a fee of PLN 30. In addition, a very good low-cost work contract, which was very flexible and free of burdens on agriculture, was still in operation in agriculture and gardening in recent times. That's why, Minister Suski, you didn't have to change those rules. This law, which you have proposed, is indeed a way out of the difficult situation in which you have put Polish farmers into it, so I am proposing another amendment, which will make life easier for Polish farmers and will not cause additional burdens for them and their workers. Hence the question to the Minister: Will he recommend to his club the support of this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u81	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u82	Thank you, sir. This amendment seems to be a very important amendment because it concerns the possibility of exemption from PIT for persons employed in seasonal work who will not earn 20,000. zł. We know what the problem is with seasonal workers. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are working on an important bill and the kind of arguments that are being made here to do something faster. Or to end unnecessary discussions, they're not on the level. This is the Sejm and the Members listen to what other Members say, listen to the amendments tabled, wonder how to vote and not follow the instructions given earlier. The kind of work you propose is calling for us not to discuss, not to waste time on discussions, and it ends the way it was with the Water Law. [[Applause]] You called for us to vote quickly, to shove up our shoes, and now we have a big deal for 3 billion zlotys, and we will have a committee of inquiry for that. So a little serious, gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Power is responsibility, above all responsibility. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u83	Thank you, sir, but that wasn't a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 197 against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2a and Article 2a Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3a The Public-funded Health Care Act proposes a legislative change. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 14th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 2 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Several times from this speaker it was said that these rules should enter into force as soon as possible, that the social side expects them, and that is the truth. Therefore, in the change we propose, we want the law to enter into force on the day of its adoption, because the season of the first species of strawberries is approaching. I don't see the fault of the committee or the parliament in the fact that this bill is being dealt with for so long. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister to convince his club to bring this law into force as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u85	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 197 against - 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Members shall put the whole question to the vote. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a law aimed primarily at regulating matters relating to the employment of seasonal workers on the farm - here we agree. On the other hand, I would also like to reply quickly to Mr Suski: there were other regulations in previous years. You are introducing new solutions that will impose additional bureaucratic burdens on both the farmer and the employer. Minister! I would like you to explain to the High House what bureaucratic barriers farmers and workers will have to face. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u87	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u88	Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for your voice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a government project. The government has worked very hard on this project, and in the last two years the government has worked very honestly and hard. Therefore, I have a question for the representative of the government. I think the best person to answer that question is Prime Minister Beata Szydło. In connection with this hard work over the last two years, those awards you were screaming about a month ago, did they belong to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u89	Mr, but ask questions about the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u90	...or didn't they belong like President Kaczyński said? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u91	I'm warning you... [[But don't review.]] ...that next time I'm gonna have to react by the book. [[Go ahead, Adam.]] Member Robert Telus, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is a bill expected by farmers, fruiters, vegetables. This is a very good law that is needed, and I want to thank the whole government and also the Ministry of Agriculture for presenting such a law that farmers will be able to hire seasonal workers and that the contribution is only PLN 180. On behalf of all the farmers, on behalf of the farmers who are sitting at the gallery and who are waiting for this bill, thank you very much. Minister, I have a question: Is the hypocrisy of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That they filed a motion for rejection at first reading... [[Voice from the room: Not on the subject!]] ... prolonged the procedure over this bill? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, on the subject!]] Is it that we're working so hard today... [[About!]] ...this is due to the Marshal of the Seym and the Marshal of the Senate, who is waiting for this bill so that farmers can introduce... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I'm asking you to answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u93	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u94	...is this the hypocrisy of the Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u95	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u96	...extends the procession over this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u97	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u98	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! High Seym! I'll start by correcting it. Mr Telus, for the sake of truth, the Polish People's Party has not requested rejection at first reading. Don't mislead the public. [[But the projects. Amendments that...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur pointed out that this law solves the problems of many Poles. It's true. But unfortunately, this law does not go against many thousands of Polish farmers. I am a resident of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, or actually this part of the voivodship where small farms dominate, up to about 10 ha. Farmers grow vegetables and fruit in a small area to improve the profitability of their farms. At the peak of the harvest, these farmers are forced to use the employed force a few days a year. And I'm sending a question to the Minister. Minister, do you provide for the regulations that you solve in the law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] farmers' problems related to the so-called Neighbor's help? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u99	Thank you. Minister Romanowski will answer you. Mr Rafał Romanowski, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I already answered that question to the Member yesterday. Mr President, this law is not addressed only to foreigners. This law is addressed to all citizens who intend to take up the work of a helper at harvest. If a neighbor wants to work with a neighbor as a helper in the harvest, he will be able to benefit from the benefit of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u101	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 2408, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 425, 2 against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2321-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. During the second reading, one request was made to reject the draft law and six substantive amendments. The Commission has taken a negative view of both the proposal and the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u103	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 2321 print. The amendments that have been tabled and the proposal to reject the proposal in its entirety will be put to the vote first. We will vote on this proposal first. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 37 votes against - 390, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. do not add § Article 2 117 and Article 5 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 67 votes against - 358 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to add point 1 in Article. 187 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 67, against 273, with 90 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes a different wording of the transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 4 and 5 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 192 voted against - 232, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes that the existing statute be applied to claims arising before the date of entry into force of this Act and on that date not yet renewed. Amendment 5 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna ask you a question that I don't really expect to get answers to. This amendment to the Civil Code affects not only the provisions on limitation of claims, but also the protection of the rights of the owner. By virtue of the article. 223 Civil Code These provisions on statute of limitations apply accordingly to the protection of the rights of the owner of movable goods. So please answer the question: Why, why are we limiting the intensity of the protection of the owner? Please note that this change will cause those whose property rights were infringed in 2008 and 2012 to lose their right to protect their property again after 1 month. Of course, in this law we also refer to provisions that have been amended by the Civil Code novel of 28 July 1990. Well, here you go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer the question: Why are we returning to this past period, some feel that it is right? Why are we restricting the right to protect the owner? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u105	Thank you. The government represents Minister Łukasz Piebiak at this point. There isn't. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 178 voted against - 247, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 8 the draft law amending the applicant proposes that the law enter into force 6 months after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 231, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2321 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 275 voted against - 22, with 126 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses. We proceed to the third reading. This is print number 2371-A. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, and the Act on Perpetual and Hypothecal Books, prints No. 2064, 2371 and 2371-A. On 11 April, the Sejm sent this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to consider the amendment tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission, after considering this amendment yesterday, recommends it to the High House positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u107	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendment which the committee puts forward in its additional report. In the amendment to the inserted article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 402, 1 against, 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2371, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 416, 1 against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics. We are returning to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and the Infrastructure of Spatial Information Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2443. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole... [[And the question? The question is.]] Excuse me, there are questions. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS is ruining the country again. You failed an M+ that turned out to be a complete failure. Therefore, you want to go another way and take away the country's main surveyor's competence to decide where the technical infrastructure is to be implemented, so that in those areas where the municipalities do not want to build, because these are very remote areas and it is costly and senseless to build meaningless dwellings. We do not agree to this, and this is the next step that you should refrain from and proceed with a completely different way of building apartments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u109	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2443 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 270 votes against - 152, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information. We would like to return to the discussion of item 21 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2282. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 2282, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 414 against - 3 and abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989. We return to the examination of item 22 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. I remind you, print number 2283. We're voting. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 2283, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 426 voted against - 1st Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. We would like to return to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2288. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2288 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 424 voted against - 1, 2 abstained. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2289. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2289, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 419 against - 1, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2017 (the Presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union) together with the position of the Commission for European Union Affairs. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendments were delivered to print No 2312. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2312. I will put the amendments tabled to the draft resolution to the vote first. In Amendment 1, the applicants propose a new wording of the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u110	Sir! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that we cannot adopt a report on government activities within the European Union, [[Applause]] because the declarations you make in Brussels are not true. You say you are repairing the judicial system in Poland. You say you respect the constitution. You say you respect the law in Poland. [[Sit down.]] Do you think they don't have TVs like Mr. Suski in the European Union? Do you think they don't see how the Polish Sejm works, that they don't see Mr Kuchciński punishing Members of the opposition, how he takes the floor, how he says that the formal proposals are informal? Do you think they don't see you adopting laws, government laws, in such a scandalous way that they don't take laws in Belarus? Do you think they all don't see it... [[Applause]] [[Because they have informants in Poland.]] ...they don't see that you brought in... that you brought the Sejm into the role of a subsidiary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From this one man?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u111	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u112	Do they think... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u113	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party. I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention, however, to respect the High House and not to say such words as might affect the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: What else?]] [[But what is it? Specifically.]] Here you go, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. [[You just don't have any substantive arguments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking the government, but I'm asking the High House. Can you submit a report to Parliament in full seriousness on the activities of the government, from the participation of the Government of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December last year, excluding three important documents... [[The instructions are coming from the president again.]] ...which concerned only and in particular the Republic of Poland? [[I'm listening, I'm listening. The president's instructions.]] I am talking about the European Commission's July 2016 recommendations, where there is a whole list of recommendations that should be introduced into the Supreme Court, the General Courts and the National Courts Council. I am talking about the resolution of the European Parliament of November on the same issue and finally the draft decision of 20 December approving the launch of the Article. 7 and political sanctions against Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u115	Thank you. Minister Konrad Szymański, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly possible to provide you with information from the work of the European Union during these 6 months, with particular emphasis on matters important from Poland's point of view, and not comment on the unfortunate issue of initiating the procedure with Article. 7 because this matter was not part of the Estonian Presidency's programme and there is therefore no reason to include it in the information on the work of the European Union during this period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u117	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] For the last time, I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention. Next time I'm gonna have to, if you're gonna make it impossible for me to sit and vote... [[Don't promise.]] ...recommend you in regular mode. [[Voice from the room: Kara.]] [[This message was brought by a courier?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 1 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 169 voted against - 235, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2, applicants propose a new wording of the draft resolution. Its adoption will render the draft resolution proposed by the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: You made a mistake.]] [[Voice from the room: It was a moment.]] I'm sorry. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you humbly, Marshal, for giving me the floor in the High House. I have a question for the government: Is it true and indeed such a situation has happened that during the Estonian Presidency, i.e. during this six-month period, there has actually been an ongoing procedure with the article. 7 European treaties? Was it true that Poland did not present a long-term vision of the European Union budget? Other European countries have submitted non-papers on this issue. Is it true that Poland has failed to organise a coalition of the cohesion club, which has been managed so far in general? Is it true that during this period, during this six-month period, the ECJ's judgments on the wilderness were adverse to Poland? Is it true that Poland has not joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office? The question is whether Poland is afraid to join this office because it violates the law. In this connection, I have a question for government representatives, especially Prime Minister Szydło: Are there awards for such a corrupt Presidency and such actions of Poland during this six-month period, or do they not belong, as President Kaczyński said? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They belong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u119	The Minister wants to answer? Whatever you say. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 171 voted against - 236, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club, will present the question before the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was undoubtedly a bad half-year for Poland in the European Union. PiS foreign policy, instead of raising Poland from its knees, as PiS politicians have repeatedly said, has put our diplomacy on the shoulders. [[Applause]] As a result, our country's trust and prestige in the European Union has fallen. Examples of this state of affairs include: launch of art. 7, initiation of proceedings at the Court of Justice on tree cutting in the Białowieża Forest or failed negotiations on posted workers. Nowogrodzka diplomacy harms Poland and should end as soon as possible. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But you made it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u121	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u122	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: Just about.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would be worthwhile for you to have a substantive discussion with us. Even if you lack arguments, we can start a substantive discussion for the good of Poland, because Poland's presence in the European Union is a very important issue. [[The discussion's already been made. Now there's a question.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I would like to ask you how you imagine that we will take the government's information about your activities when one of the most important priorities, the whole of Europe knows that Estonia, which is really on the eastern flank, is at risk from Russia, one of the main agendas was the digital agenda. What your work looked like was shown by your digital minister. Six months she couldn't get to the Prime Minister. During the Estonian Presidency, six months ago, the Minister of Digitization could not get to the Prime Minister. The worst part is, Mr President, that you have broken Eastern Europe's solidarity. Estonia, which has built a very ambitious agenda, should have our support, support from Poland, and you have actually built your entire agenda in contradiction with the Estonian agenda. You broke Eastern solidarity... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u123	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor. [[And can you be substantive? Yes, you can. How about some arguments on your part?]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u124	High Seym! My question to Minister Szymanski after his statement. Well, Minister, will you agree that this point is not about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the implementation of the agenda of the Estonian Presidency, but about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union? Once again, I would like to remind you that two institutions, even the Council of the European Union. Justice, they dealt with the rule of law in Poland. Two have issued their documents: the European Commission and the European Parliament. Mistaking this in the report on participation in the work of the European Union reminds me, unfortunately, of the disgusting times when the strikes in Gdańsk Shipyard in 1980 were said to be technical breaks at work. Shame on you because you refer to the worst tradition of the times of the Polish People's Republic and the propaganda there, when uncomfortable facts were tried to silence or lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u125	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Relations with the European Union are undoubtedly very important and there is a need for a strong government attitude, but I, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, first of all call on the government to respond immediately to the arrogant behaviour of the President of Israel. The 24 hours go by, and unfortunately his words that were said yesterday, and especially the words that are being sold by the Israeli President's office and by Israeli newspapers, require immediate response. You're already 24 hours late. Unfortunately, the humility that the state is showing against the next wave of Israeli lies is turning against Poland. We need to move on to the offensive in these relationships. I strongly appeal to the government for this. [[Mr. Marshal, this isn't about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u127	Minister Konrad Szymański will address these statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to strongly support Mr Nitras' call for us to discuss this report in substance. [[Applause]] We had the opportunity for two hours, two hours this morning. I have no conviction that we have all taken full advantage of this occasion. [[Applause]] Mr Protasiewicz responded, I understand, to this noble appeal and began a substantive discussion about the six months of work of the European Union from the reflections on the strike in Gdańsk. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: What was that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u129	Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2312, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 241, against 165, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2017 (the Presidency of Estonia in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and some other laws (prints No. 2137, 2245 and 2245-A). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and some other laws, respectively, in prints No. 2137, 2245 and 2245-A. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading, which, according to the Legislative Office, require a joint vote. The Health Committee recommends rejecting these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u131	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that this is about the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2245. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act on State Medical Rescue. This amendment is linked to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole question, Members shall ask. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u132	High Izbo! I have a question for a representative of the Ministry of Health. The bill that we're about to vote on is to make a medical emergency public. This will result in a loss of about 135 rescue teams on the domestic market. Ladies and gentlemen, the purchase price of one ambulance is between 400 and 500 thousand. zł, therefore the total cost of this decision is about PLN 67 million. We didn't find that in the health department's budget. The enigmatic assurances made by the Minister that there may be some willing ones are too frivolous in relation to the importance of medical rescue and patient safety. Unless you want to beat your superrecord - last year the Poles' mortality year by year increased by 35%. If you take care of the health of Poles, we do not agree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u133	Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project deprives medical universities of the possibility of training in the field of medical rescue, because as a result of changes, universities will not be able to conclude a contract for the performance of the tasks of medical rescue teams within the framework of the State Medical Rescue System. Aren't you worried that these regulations will make you run out of qualified paramedics in a few years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the so-called. ratio legis. What is the ratio of legis leaving the private system to the state system? An example of medical rescue is not the only example of how you want to leave the system of private entrepreneurs. Another example is vehicle control stations, which you are also preparing for an assassination attempt so that you can take control of another sector of the economy. [[The commune is coming back.]] Hence the question, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you very much, Minister, for an answer, if you are able to answer: What is the point of this, why are you moving away from the free market economy for the sake of the state economy, and then perhaps the centrally planned economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They hate freedom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u137	Thank you. At the moment, the Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ensuring the safety of residents is a fundamental duty of the state, among others. implemented by ensuring an efficient medical rescue system - efficient, i.e. one that will ensure both the quality and continuity of the benefits provided. Medical rescue has recently encountered many problems related to, among others. except that the benefits were provided by entities for which the body constituting the government or other public bodies was not. This caused e.g. events in Rawa Mazowiecka, where a private entity from day to day, resigned from the provision of benefits from hours per hour. Thanks to the services, the voivodship immediately launched additional medical rescue teams that replaced the person who made this decision. A similar situation is currently also taking place in the Lublin Voivodeship, where a private entity is put into liquidation. There will probably be a situation where medical emergency teams will have to be quickly secured by other entities. The potential of public operators at the moment, the dispatchers of medical rescue teams, is sufficient to secure the functioning of medical rescue throughout the country. We have security for this, the declaration of the Association of Medical Rescue Employers, which in writing presented a declaration of protection for these benefits throughout the country. However, we have foreseen such a situation in the Act: if the first competition procedure had not been followed by entities wishing to secure benefits in the area concerned, private entities would also be allowed to participate in the subsequent proceedings. The Act provides that in such a situation private entities will be able to provide benefits for a period of 2 years. So that there is no sudden need to secure a gigantic amount of funding for the purchase of additional medical rescue teams. The second question concerned the deprivation of medical universities' learning opportunities for medical rescue. That is not true. The law does not in any way refer to the possibility or inability of training at medical universities. The proof of this is that so far no university has medical rescue teams, and it teaches in the medical emergency department. We do not refer to the possibilities of education to any extent. The creation by the medical university of an entity that would carry out tasks in the field of medical rescue would be a completely innovative solution that does not exist in our health system so far, so that there is absolutely no such possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, we are taking these actions to make the medical emergency system consistent and reorganize in such a way that it works continuously and safely, like other services, such as the fire department or the police, which are also services that respond in life-threatening situations. And this model will be safer. On the other hand, I am surprised by your examples, the statistics that are probably based only on reports from tabloids, because we are constantly monitoring the rates of mortality, mortality, adverse events that occur in the health sector, and none of these indicators confirm those data that you are talking about. In view of the above, I ask the High House to adopt this law, which medical rescue is waiting for, as well as the medical rescue community, which fully supports these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u139	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No. 2245 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 258 voted against - 154, with 12 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 2445). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2445 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 413 against - 2 with 5 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 16 hours 13 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws (Print No 2223). [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd very much like to ask you to remain silent because we're starting our next point. I ask you, Mrs Elżbieta Lenartowicz, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My name is Gabrielle. Elizabeth is also a pretty name, royal, but I will remain with mine. High Seym! Today is a special day: the first reading of the draft law, which is to fight effectively with smog, which is supposed to make Poles not only have the right to clean air, but also have clean air. This is the moment when we have to stop with the declarations, with the debates if only, and get on with the concrete. Poles expect this from us. I'm not going to talk about statistics here, because we're not so much empathized with them every day, which is because we've been informed about them for many years... The Poles, thanks to the fact that we introduced a system of monitoring air quality, were informed about its, unfortunately, dramatic quality. At the same time, they were informed of the health effects of this poor air quality and that these pollution effects affect the inhabitants before they were born and that this remains the whole of their lives. Poles are already aware of the risks and what they are entitled to, and therefore they expect, above all, the activity of the state in this area. They believe that this country is responsible for their safety, also their health, because at the moment, the scale of bad air quality this is already the scale of the threat to health safety of Poles. It is the opinion of the Poles that it is the responsibility for creating legal and financial conditions to carry out the necessary investments. At the same time, Poles express legitimate concerns about increased costs of green heating, which may fall on their families' shoulders. The security, including the health safety I was talking about, is the responsibility of the state and the state cannot escape this responsibility. Security is the responsibility of the government - by law, under the control of Parliament. Local governments of voivodships, which in the previous term we equipped with the possibility to accept the so-called. Antismog resolutions, they boldly implemented them. The municipalities are trying to fight for clean air in their territories, but they cannot remain without support from both national regulations and the real financing of air protection. In particular, coordinated regulatory action is needed on... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u141	I am so sorry, Member. I would very much like to ask your Members to remain silent in the Chamber, because the Member cannot report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u142	Regulatory measures are needed to amend a number of laws and implementing acts, investment and economic activities, financial measures - both sources of funding and distribution - and education, including primarily health and environmental education, but also economic ones. They concern all levels of activity of public authorities, both government level and self-government level, but also civil organisations and citizens themselves. It is necessary to ensure long-term funding guaranteed by law. There is a need for a permanent state policy, which is resistant to political change, especially to changes in executive power, also because the actions of different levels of government have proved ineffective despite - and this must be acknowledged - often significant expenditures and good will. So what's in our project? Guarantee for financing expenditure on improving air quality at 0,5% GDP per year from public funds, not just from the budget - now around 10 billion per year - in terms of defence expenditure, although these are much higher and come directly from the budget. The fight against smog will become a statutory task in the Environmental Law, with a reference to the National Air Protection Programme, as an implementing act. This law also covers regulation of the quality of fuels authorised for marketing, including minimum rules, as well as the quality of heating equipment authorised for marketing. At the same time, in response to the demands of the public, NGOs, we want to ensure that the threshold for air quality standards is reduced not so much, because it is the same as the thresholds for informing and alerting the public about this condition. We include in this law a clear division - because it is necessary - of responsibilities and responsibilities for the implementation of the programme and its financing between government and local government agendas and citizens themselves. The support we are talking about will address the tasks already placed, catalogued in the National Air Protection Programme: the exchange of green heat sources, including the connection and construction of district heating networks; the increase of energy efficiency, including above all the deep thermomodernisation of buildings; the use of renewable energy sources, especially in the field of civic energy; the health of civic education as necessary for the effectiveness of the other measures. The funds for this purpose will be redistributed by a unique system of environmental funds, which we as a country have earned for many years. The Act as a tool, and this tool dedicated to local governments, includes raising local energy supply plans to the rank of local law. These plans will include mandatory full inventory of heat sources from the municipality, including the thermal standard of buildings, and a target energy supply model taking into account energy efficiency principles with a list of necessary investments. This plan will form the basis for the municipality's application for funding support included in this investment plan, so that this public support is efficient, systematic and consistent. The issue of economic security for households. In this respect, we propose solutions for higher costs of low-carbon heating, if this is the case despite the thermo-modernisation. This support will be of a social nature and will therefore be aimed at the poorest and at the nature of tax relief for other taxpayers. I want to tell you how we see how this road from smog to individual citizens is going to look like. The municipality creates an energy supply plan as an act of local law. This plan shall take into account local circumstances and acts at the level of seymists. The plan will also take into account - I am talking about the voivodship's air protection plan and also about antismog resolutions - the statutory restrictions that we are proposing regarding fuels and boilers, while the municipality will be recruiting citizens for funding. The proposal will be accepted by the complexity of the project and therefore the exchange of the source or the connection to the network will be preceded by a deep thermomodernisation, while the project must meet the energy standards provided for in the plan. The municipality submits a collective application for funding for a given year, sequentially, to the voivodship environmental fund as an operator of public funds. This model has already been developed and rehearsed, so we do not discover anything here, we have a tool and we want to use it. Therefore, the complexity of the project will be a condition for accepting the proposal. The municipality will be accountable to the environmental fund for the effectiveness of these activities, while the effectiveness of these activities and their settlement will be a condition for redemption, and the citizen who joins this programme and meets its conditions will be entitled to receive investment aid at the level specified in the programme, prepared under the auspices of the Ministry of the Environment, which will develop public aid schemes in this area. If the project is implemented in accordance with these conditions, it will be able to deduct its own contribution from the tax, as it used to be in the case of a construction or renovation concession. It will be able to deduct the increased heating costs over a period of 5 years from the date of the investment if, despite the measures taken, their share of the disposable income is higher than before the investment. For this, a specific algorithm is needed, which will be defined in the Regulation, and a citizen eligible for social assistance will have the right to apply for one-off aid to cover his own investment, as he will normally not be able to deduct this aid under PIT. In terms of higher energy supply costs, he will be able to apply for an extended housing allowance for higher energy costs. These higher costs, despite the thermomodernization, may relate particularly to historical objects, where fully effective thermomodernization is not always possible. The funding of projects on broader, supra-local and horizontal issues, including education, would be carried out through the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The question of costs and sources of money. We as Poland have so far spent a lot of money on air protection, obtained from various sources: European sources, both at national level and at regional level of operational programmes, and other foreign sources, e.g. from Norwegian instruments, but also from the environmental fund. We will sustain these sources of funding, only need to be coordinated, but we will complement them with significantly higher revenues from emissions trading. Poland participates in the European Emissions Trading Programme, which is the result of climate policy. These are measures that affect the state budget. They are not marked, but at least 50% This appropriation should be earmarked for climate policy. In Poland air protection is undoubtedly part of climate policy. She's not the same, but she's part of it. We want this mandatory part to be used to improve air quality, especially since as a result of changes in climate policy, these measures will be much, much bigger in Poland in the near future. It is estimated that in the coming years it may be up to PLN 100 billion. What are we trying to achieve? Above all, we want to achieve air quality within 15 and 20 years in line with both the European directives and the standards of the World Health Organisation, which are slightly sharper. We must draw attention to the fact that the project is of a cross-party and trans-political nature. The Prime Minister in his exposé said that the fight to improve air quality is a civilization challenge. We, Prime Minister, have taken up this challenge. We hope that the Prime Minister will also be involved in this work. We ask that the project be referred to the committee. We will also want to direct it, even though we have already consulted this project and with experts, and with politicians, and with NGOs and local authorities above all, to public reading, so that everyone can have access. The case directly concerns Poles and the quality of their lives. The expenses we are planning are not, ladies and gentlemen, at a cost, a really big investment. At the moment, this is an economic sector that creates the most jobs and which brings the most technological and organisational innovations, but this is also a model that causes a great deal of social commitment. If we create laws and solutions at local level involving the local community for these local communities, if we place local governments responsible for the quality of life of their residents, let us offer them such tools and ways to deal with these problems in a spirit of subsidiarity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u143	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft in print 2223 is vague, legislative and substantively underdeveloped, not consulted with the social partners, and operates with undefined concepts. Its financial implications for both the state budget and the local authorities have not been estimated. Project e.g. extends the duties of the uncle, mayor, city president as regards granting to the housing supplement a green compensatory allowance. Add: an allowance paid from the municipality's own income. Who and in what manner will grant it is already a sweet secret of the applicants. In view of the formative and non-constitutional nature of the provisions on the determination of its amount and those already mentioned deficiencies, this could cause problems in municipalities with the payment of special-purpose allowances, as well as those contained in Article. 6 of the draft amendment to the Social Assistance Act adding a new category of special-purpose allowances to cover the own contribution related to the energy supply plan - this is the procedure of the article. 19 Energy law, which you are also changing in this country - like the previous proposal that raises fundamental constitutional doubts. In addition, the project introduces deductions from the basis for the calculation of taxes, expenditure on higher heating costs due to the use of a low-carbon heating source in a residential building - that is Article. 26g - but without a maximum deduction limit, please countries, which can clearly lead to fraud and would certainly result in a reduction in the revenue of local governments that are involved in income tax revenues. Let me remind you that this is about municipalities - almost 38%, powiats - more than 10% and voivodship - more than 1.5%. Let us stress, High Izbo, that the authors of the project did not notice that in Poland there are government strategic documents relating to the improvement of air quality. I would like to remind you that the strategy for responsible development by 2020, the government programme The solutions proposed in print no 2223 either duplicate or go against the actions adopted in these programmes. So, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to solid fuel boilers, let me remind you that this task remains implemented in accordance with the "Clean Air' programme, because on 5 September 2017, i.e. more than six months ago, a regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance of 1 August 2017 on solid fuel boilers was published. Dear applicants, this is last year's Journal of Laws, item. 1695. Please read it and do not involve us in the debate on such somewhat late projects. The second pressing issue - the standardisation of solid fuels - is being implemented by the energy department. The draft law on the amendment of the law on monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration was adopted by the government on 6 March this year and directed on 19 March to further work in Parliament. Just stop your parole, and don't file an immediate motion for rejection at first reading, just like you do. The matter will be dealt with competently and quickly. For details, the article contains proposals for amendments to the Environmental Law Act. And this must be said bluntly: proposals introducing chaos in the hierarchy of strategic documents, proposals leading to an increase in the deficit of the state budget, because what else is the provision in the added article. 85a, which determines the annual level of financing of air protection at least 0,5% GDP from the previous year? Did the applicants calculate that this is well over PLN 9 billion a year? You're unceremoniously reaching local budgets. After all, public funds in accordance with Article. 5 Finance Laws are also self-government measures. The destabilisation of public finances, the demonstration of disregard for the stabilisation of expenditure rules, the cessation of the emissions trading system, since the Act of 12 June 2015 clearly states that a minimum of half of the funds from the sale of allowances are transferred to the purposes set out in that Act. Are these costs worthwhile for your mirages? How are these expenditures to be allocated to individual entities in the public finance sector? You're setting the amount rigidly. 0,5% So if in December it turns out that the local government hasn't reached the assumed level of expenditure, then we're going to have to make a mistake with the budget, right? After all, the amount of expenditure and the expenditure limit determined in accordance with the Public Finance Act shall set the maximum total amount of expenditure of the State budget. As in a situation of increased expenditure burden, maintain the budget deficit and public debt reference values - 3% and 60% GDP? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, I'm almost done, but I'm still asking for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u145	There you go, 30 seconds and not a second longer. [[Voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u146	You guys know exactly how to make it from 2.9%. GDP to 7.9% The deficit, and when it ran out, you took the money, 150 billion from the OFE. The Government of Law and Justice is reasonable and cost-effective in managing our common money, introducing solutions that are effective in substance and financially. [[Saving money by giving yourself prizes.]] Instead of losing budget money for non-transparent reliefs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u147	You must finish, Member, it has been 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u148	...we need to introduce network solutions with a noticeable environmental effect... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u149	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u150	...connect as many buildings to district heating networks as possible, help the poorest in thermomodernization.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u151	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u152	And all these actions are taken by the Law and Justice Government with energy and consequence. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no way in such a short time to calculate all the shortcomings... [[But you have to try.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u155	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u156	...of this project. On behalf of my club, I'm filing for rejection...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u157	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u158	...at first reading of the project in print 2223.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u159	You're welcome, my fellow Member. And you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u161	...watch the time discipline. Please, Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Members of this House! We meet as usual simply with ridicule, boot, rejection of any attempt to dialogue and work together on what so many Polish citizens are upset about at the moment, i.e. the issue of clean air and air quality. We heard from this tribune in the Prime Minister's exposé that he wants to cooperate with us, that smog and fighting smog is his priority... [[It is, sir.]] ...and here's... What are the results? Poland is before the Court of Justice because of bad air quality, and the rulers say: We do not need to cooperate with anyone, because we know what needs to be done. There's just no results. It is time to take a fundamental step in the fight for air quality in Poland, i.e. for clean air. Just as it is obvious to citizens that they have the right to clean water, so do citizens have the right to clean air. And that's the job of the state. In Poland, the concentration of PM2.5 molecules most harmful to the body is the highest among the concentrations tested in the Member States of the European Union. We are also the only country in the European Union where the trend in PM10 levels is rising even in rural areas. Analogical situation occurs with benzo (a) pyrene, whose concentration is much higher than in other Member States. It is alarming that, according to the European Environment Agency, more than 80% of Poles are directly exposed to the effects of air pollution. In the top ten European cities with the largest number of days a year, in which the acceptable average daily concentration of PM10 is exceeded, there are as many as six Polish cities - at 10, I remind you. In recent years, citizens' awareness of the health risks posed by smog has increased. Under the influence of social pressure, local governments began to react. Heat exchange programmes have been launched. Sejmikas adopt resolutions on banning the use of coal in the near future or burning it in adapted boilers. Local governments were supported by environmental funds - national and voivodship funds. However, all of these actions do not produce the expected effect, or radical reduction of the threat. The need for a radical state legal plan on air protection. A plan setting out clearly the tasks to be carried out over the next 10 to 15 years by public bodies and the expectations of economic operators, district heating networks, renewable energy sources. A plan indicating also the sources of funding. And just presented by the Civic Platform Club and Gabriela Lenartowicz, the bill meets these requirements, while showing that it is not intended to shift responsibility for ecological heat onto the shoulders of citizens. The project proposes a wide support system not only for investments but also for social programmes, i.e. eliminating the so-called. energy poverty, as well as the tax relief system. The municipality becomes the main operator who, after a thorough audit, applies for funds to the relevant institutions, which are either regional funds or a national fund. So it is ordering the whole system in such a way that it does not really become a cost, but becomes an investment which can be a flywheel also for the Polish economy. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke in his exposé about an important problem of air quality. At the Prime Minister's office a special representative was appointed to fight smog - I do not see him in this debate today, and it is a shame. The legislative proposal by the members of the Civic Platform Club goes against the Prime Minister's declarations. Of course, we support the project, we expect to work together on it. We will propose a public hearing and a broad consultation in the committee. This consultation has been carried out over the last few months within our capacity, and we want, of course, to increase these opportunities by addressing legislative work. There's not one element here that's relevant. He should be regulated in a different mode. Namely, it is the so-called. communication smog, which is caused by excessive car traffic, especially in large cities. And here I expect from the Minister for Environmental Protection information at what stage is the proposal, the plan of the relevant law that was being prepared [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the Ministry of Environmental Protection under the previous management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the draft Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. Of course, as a citizen's movement, we are aware that the overriding good of citizens is also the right to clean air, and with all the forces that I say, we support all initiatives that increase air purity for our citizens, and thus nothing but our health and our children and future generations. And what do we have here? Generally, assumptions about spending billions of zloty. Annual public funding of not less than 0,5% gross domestic product from the previous year will be allocated to support anti-smog policy. There are a number of solutions here. Some really are noteworthy. They touch, so to speak, on the exchange of heat sources, on energy efficiency, on the use of renewable energy sources, on environmental and health education, etc., on the overall development of heating networks. And we're all for it. There's no discussion here. The development of district heating is a priority for our country and should be a priority for our country. Except there's a little trouble here, that's in the article. 94b it shall be prohibited to place on the market for individual customers for the purpose of incineration in the installations referred to in Article. 94a in the urban and communal sectors: brown coal and solid fuels produced using this carbon, mules and flotoconcentrates and mixtures produced using it, fuels in which the bulk share of hard coal with a grain of less than 3 mm is more than 15% solid biomass whose working humidity exceeds 20%. These are the provisions of the bill. And also here, in this bill, all other boilers are generally disqualified. Only fifth generation boilers and only fuel for fifth generation boilers can be introduced. In practice, such a provision will eliminate the introduction of individual marketing for combustion in installations in the residential and communal sectors, eliminating the possibility for individual customers to purchase virtually 2% to 50% coals produced in Silesian, Polish mines. At this point we are destroying the Polish energy sector 100% , with individual recipients. That's not enough, so to speak, there's going to be an underground under construction of completely non-organic boilers. Because, if someone is to spend on the installation, despite its efficient installation, which is not quite perfect, but it is a furnace with a screw feeder, with a piston feeder and fuel, peas, which it uses, but meets the requirements of production, for example the Polish Mining Group... If we impose such high requirements as to finance further new investments in small single-family homes, then, once again, that we are not looking at the financial possibilities of the citizen at all, secondly, we are almost very much disqualifying coal producers. We should go decisively towards the development of the district heating network, but we must not prohibit the use of the financial opportunities of citizens at this moment. It's as if everyone driving an old type of car ordered them to buy the newest class of limo for several hundred thousand zlotys, and not to consider that you can buy a middle class car along the way. This is a radical solution that destroys virtually all people who burn their houses with solid fuels. As this is a really big problem to lean on, I would like to ask and I would like to record this so that this project comes under discussion by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury. The point is to take a two-track look at the problem and take into account the interests of the hard coal producers. There's one more thing. Although in the case of fireplaces, if these records were actually rigidly introduced, every citizen with a fireplace would have to apply an electrofilter costing more than 2 000 at that moment. zł. It is not enough that the fear is that despite all the investments made, the thermomodernization, the replacement of the boiler, the use of electrofilters in the chimney, at this point, not always for formal reasons, the citizen may not get this support, this benefit. Where's he gonna be looking for money right now? It's practically gonna cost a lot of money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in favour of referring the bill to the committee and in favour of extending the work on this project to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u165	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u166	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the problem of smog is very complex and requires changes on many levels, and thus huge financial expenditure. At the same time, it is an urgent issue, because the health and life of Poles suffer from it, and exactly every year 50,000. Polish citizens and citizens pay with their lives. The Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg ruled in February this year that Poland broke Union law, allowing excessive, long-term exceedance of PM10 particulate matter concentrations in the air. The World Health Organization recognises that the highest level of dust contamination is 20 microns per m3 and that in Poland it is only at 200 microns PM10 that is safe for human health. At present such an alarm is introduced occasionally, because six times the exceedance of standards occurs very rarely, but negative health effects already occur at twice the exceedance of standards. The modern law has its own draft law in this area, which proposes a more detailed and practical, gradual reduction of information and alert thresholds. It is, of course, a law amending the Environmental Law. The projector proposes the inclusion in the Act of Recommendations set out in the EN-PSL Coalition in September 2015 the National Air Protection Programme. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (2) of the proposal calls for an annual commitment from the State to contribute significant public funds to the fight against smog, i.e. 0,5% per year. That is almost PLN 10 billion, which was so painful for Mrs PiS. This is the very right direction, ladies and gentlemen, this is the life of 50,000. people a year. I think it is worth spending this money, Madame, even if you are crying about it very much. That's how much money has never been spent on this. However, the designer did not provide any grounds for adopting such an amount. As modern, we have a comprehensive and cost-based air pollution prevention programme, which provides for a similar allocation of public funds over the next 6 years, which should reduce the combined risk of smog by at least 70%. Of course, we will be happy to share these studies. In the following article: 94a is referred to requirements for solid fuel boilers. Unfortunately, the regulation introduced by the August 2017 Regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance is duplicated. It would be advisable to tighten the gaps in the Regulation, i.e. too many exceptions, and to increase the technical requirements for boilers by requiring boilers to comply with the European ecodesign standard, which will still apply from 2020, and to permit the sale and use of boilers with an automatic fuel feeder only. Eliminating all fuels of poor quality is a much-needed regulation, advocated for a long time by experts and the social side, which would result in rapid and noticeable improvement in air quality. The proposed parameters should be extended, possibly by Regulation. It is a pity that the Civic Platform has not decided to take this step within 8 years of its two term, although Poland, without any fuel standards, has been and is an event in the European Union. Art. 2 includes changes that we also support as it introduces one of the possible financial incentives for the rapid exchange of outdated boilers for low-carbon heating. Art. 4 provides for financial allowances for persons who have switched to low-carbon heating sources, but Article. 1 point 6 is rather a general proposal. We in our Act on amending the Energy Law offer a detailed programme of payment of heating allowances. The project addresses mainly the problem of low emissions and in Article. 9 - also global warming. There are also other important sources of air pollution. Modern has a bill to counter the important problem of removing DPF filters from vehicles - the law on amending the Code of Offences Act and the Law on Road Traffic. The justification of the project is supported by a comprehensive analysis, and correctly presents the problem of air pollution in Poland. It contains some small errors - let's say - e.g. The respect of smog victims is rather closer to 50,000. than 25,000. Or 35,000. In conclusion, it's a good, necessary amendment. The Modern Parliamentary Club will support it. However, we propose to use the low-emission reduction programme developed by the Modern Programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we do not start walking away from coal, then everything that Mrs PiS said today will unfortunately be insufficient, and even, it can be said, untrue if we do not focus on eliminating coal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u167	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Pasławska made her statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u168	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is long awaited by the public. It is important because it solves the problem comprehensively, and above all necessary, so it should be adopted. We can discuss it in committee, but you can't file a rejection of this project because it's ridiculous. Smog is a real threat to our health and life. Just look at a town like Rybnik. In February, the dust standards were exceeded for 26 days for 28 days. We're still on that disgusting list with another record. Last year in Rybnik suspended dust standards were not exceeded by 100% Not 200%, but 3126%. Come to Rybnik. Tell people you're rejecting this project. But I have a question for the applicant because local governments need government support to win the fight against smog. The project is accompanied by the position of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which expresses certain doubts. I would like to ask: How does the applicant react to this position? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u169	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u170	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry. Minister, Silesia is listed on the disgraceful list of the most polluted cities in Poland. I have already submitted two amendments to the state budget for funding - the last was PLN 0.5 billion - to transfer these funds to fight smog in the Silesian Voivodeship. We had a proposal from Mrs. Beata Szydło to fight the smog. [[Yes, sir, there is.]] We have seen this - 1 to 13 - that all these promises were not fulfilled - of 14 only 1. But, please, Minister, I am sure you will be speaking in a moment, because you have exchanged many of these documents, but you have not mentioned this serious study prepared by the Civic Platform in 2015. This is the National Air Protection Programme until 2020 with a view to 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You weren't listening to me.]] I would like to ask: How is this programme implemented today by the government? How do you carry it out? It is a serious, adopted programme, government, today in force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u171	Thank you very much. [[You didn't listen to me, sir.]] [[I listened very carefully.]] Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Contaminated air is not a problem in itself. Contaminated air is death. That's the problem. 48,000. Poles and Poles are dying because anything we put in the oven. There's no consciousness, and if there is, it's not enough. What NGOs, NGOs and local governments have done so far is very much, but unfortunately not enough. I was at a conference where the analysis was done. It turns out that more than 40% of Poles do not know that contaminated air affects health, and if they do, they do not know how to introduce other solutions, they do not know how to solve this problem. This is a real challenge to raise awareness and educate Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But this is the biggest challenge for the Minister of Health. Today I miss the representative of the Ministry of Health here, because it is the Minister of Health who should tell Poles what preventive research should be done, epidemiological research...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u173	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u174	...and what kind of health program he's got. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u175	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until the 19th century, the size of the village was determined by the number of smokes - so it was said. Today, in the 21st century, the idea of the number of smokes in the village has really gained meaning and meaning, because that's where smog comes from. The project proposes that municipalities count the smoke so that they have a diagnosis so that they have an analysis of what is happening and find an adequate solution for this. We have here a project that comes out of philosophy: think globally, act locally, and the tools are constructed according to the principle of subsidiarity. Madam President, I am talking to Anna Paluch - in my village, which has a dozen smokes, no one has ever seen or seen your solutions. So far, one Member of the PIS has been seen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who wandered around and wanted to make people water out of their brains. This project is an opportunity, because if the municipality takes up this issue, it has a chance to solve this problem. I wanted to ask the applicant: Please give some examples of the local authorities that have succeeded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u177	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about smog, which simply kills Poles, kills Polish children, kills older Poles with chronic diseases. But well, the representative of the ruling party ridiculously, ignoringly, as usual, said that we cannot spend PLN 10 million or PLN 10 billion because it is not worth saving people's lives. Well, folks, it's worth it. It is worth it, because smog is not the problem of big cities, it is the problem of all the towns in Poland, also in Warmia and Mazury, where... [[But I didn't give you the authority of my spokesperson.]] Also in Warmia... Your Marshal, please calm the messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u179	But don't yell at me, Member. [[Don't twist my words.]] Ladies... [[You're lying.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u180	You're lying. You also lied when there was a debate about tree cutting, and you laughed at the fact that trees were fighting smog. [[Your Marshal, please respond. You should be talking.]] And today we have mockery of the health and life of Poles. Remember, the next candidates for Members and Prime Ministers of the Polish Government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The current government, they're telling us they're gonna fight the smog. What have you done for two and a half years? Nothing. You caused more and more Poles to die because of the smog. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u181	Thank you very much, Member. [[Marshal, please respond.]] Madam President, please do not provoke Members, also remain calm. You're welcome... [[But I can't watch you lie about what I said.]] Madam, I ask you to remain calm in the Chamber, you are disturbing the deliberations. [[Maybe some kind of financial punishment?]] Please, Mrs Alicia Chybick... Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Gądek, I think it is not worth talking to this lady, because what she is saying is always pointless. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is Mrs, this is not Mrs.]] [[Mr...]] Yes, the lady who is an MEP, yes. [[Mr President, please don't go beyond...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u183	You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u184	I would like to remind you that, in the last term, when we tried to amend the Environmental Protection Act, where we wanted to give local governments the power to decide on certain issues, in terms of reducing the fires, all Members of the PiS voted against - except for one Member who abstained, but it was not this Member. Asking the rapporteur: What do you think is the reason for this situation that PiS is saying one thing and doing the other? Of course, he does nothing about the environment, to protect people's health and life. Is this ignorance or just arrogance? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Both.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I can't really hear that you can regret money to save lives and human health. These are 48 or 50,000. - these estimates vary - the deaths caused by smog are undoubtedly underestimated. There are many diseases. It is already proven that smog causes cancer, and it is not only respiratory cancers, but also many others. The actions that should be taken to save human health and life should be rapid, and in fact nothing is done. Or almost nothing. This is very, very little. I have a question for the applicant. In large cities, the townhouses account for 60%, 50% smog. That's the way it is. in Wroclaw. What kind of records [[♪ The bell ♪]] will the program lead to an improvement in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u187	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u188	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask how much the cost of heating solid fuels for citizens will increase in the event of a radical reduction in access to fuels with lower requirements. And so on and so on. I'm listening to my predecessors here. You talk a lot about smog. If people, our fellow countrymen, don't understand, especially those new-rich people who pack in their homes the worst in their homes, toxic materials that poison not only themselves, but also us... Because everyone's looking at the cost. We must remember that there are not important costs, but human health. Then there's the disease. It's better to prevent than to treat later, it's less expensive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u189	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The government, despite its promises, does not have a comprehensive programme, and even an idea of how to solve the problem of smog - unfortunately. Meanwhile, there are 33 Polish cities, including seven in the top ten, on the illustrious blacklist of the European Union. The pilot scheme of the Government of Smog alloy covers only 22 municipalities and is of a partial, selective nature. Often these letters do not contain the most polluted cities. This is a big misunderstanding. Therefore, I ask the applicant to answer the question: What will be the impact of the project on municipalities throughout the country, and especially on municipalities where air pollution is highest? They need the most help, and as soon as possible, they can't wait in line for a pilot program for, I don't know, 20 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u191	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are great words about the government taking all measures to reduce air pollution, for example. Coal quality standards have not been established for more than a year. Other government ministers and representatives talk about caring for citizens, but this only happens at times when the media is alerting about further violations of pollution standards. The project presented is a holistic solution to this problem. It is simply ready for the rulers, but one of the rapporteurs, representing the club Law and Justice, dares to say from this place that it is a waste of time for her to discuss that this is a waste of time. I have here a request to the applicant: Can you tell me again in detail about this project? Perhaps the rapporteur, just not wanting to waste time, simply did not read this project and is simply not prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I read it thoroughly and scored all your stupidity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u193	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u194	Thank you very much, Marshal. In a few days, on Wednesday 18 April at 3 p.m. The 13th meeting will be held at the city office in Piotrków. an anti-smog parliamentary team. Numerous local authorities are invited, not only from metropolises, big cities, but also from small towns and cities such as Piotrków, Tomaszów, Radomsko, Opoczno, from neighbouring small towns and municipalities where the problem of smog is tangible. It's not like a yeti nobody's seen, but everyone's talking about it. That's the real problem why 50,000 die a year. Poles. I have a question for the Minister. Even two days ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki talked about the agreement, about action over divisions and encouraged us to cooperate, so what should we think about what you said today speaking on behalf of the PiS, actually without composition and order, just to attack? The problem is, and we need to find an understanding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill is complementary, agreed. I ask the Minister to tell me whether or not this bill will be being worked on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u195	Thank you, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u196	Thank you very much. Why doesn't the PiS government want to solve the burning problem of air pollution in Poland? What the government had real intentions in this case was seen as an example of the government's program "Smog stop" from which you excluded all cities from the Silesian voivodeship of more than 100,000. inhabitants, including my Katowice, Ruda Śląska, Chorzów, Tychy, Sosnowiec - 12 largest cities from the Silesian Voivodeship. Let me remind you that smog kills more than 47,000 a year. our citizens. It's a pretty big city in our country. Hence my very specific question to the government: Will you support today's bill? It's gonna be a real test, a test for your credibility, a test for your intentions. It would be such a real proof that you really want to fight the smog in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u197	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u198	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There's no reason to panic right now. We like to talk about threats a little more theoretical. High Izbo, who said that? [[Radziwił.]] It was said by Konstantin 65 100 zloty Radziwiłł. Luckily, he's not with us anymore. High Izbo! This is not a theoretical problem, this is the problem of every Polish woman, every Polish person. Forty-five thousand a year. Our fellow citizens die prematurely from smog. Poles live 9 months less on average. Poland is at the forefront of rankings: 33 out of the 50 most polluted European cities are cities in Poland. We, the residents, have the right to clean air here and now. The "Clean Air" Civil Platform project responds to all these challenges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u199	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u200	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Why didn't you take concrete action when you were in charge? The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in breach of Directive 2008/50/EC concerns, after all, the 2008-2015, which is the period of your governments. But even more important than this ruling of the Court of Justice is the health of Poles. And no one on this important issue will be saving up for this important goal. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, when you were in charge, you were limited only to re-scinding the so-called. an anti-smog law which gave the Sejm the right to introduce at regional level regulations on the standards of combustion plants or the quality of fuels allowed to be used, and yet we all know that the most important thing that has the worst effect on the air, on the environment, is energy poverty, i.e. the lack of resources for the use of fuels of better quality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And isn't it because of your policy that the percentage of Poles at risk of poverty reached more than 30%? Here's the source. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u201	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight for clean air is a civilization challenge, and everyone should be aware of it. Whoever doesn't have it should know that 120,000 died under the PiS because of bad air quality. persons. [[And in your rule, how much?]] It's in the circle of one messenger... These are the three largest cities: Rabka, Nowy Targ and Nowy Sącz. [[Voice from the courtroom: Your negligence...]] I would like to make it very clear that you are doing nothing in this area. [[What were you doing as a Małopolska marshal, sir? Don't yell.]] You don't need any pilots. You can follow the pattern. It's Małopolska. People expect funds to replace boilers, expect subsidies for green fuels, expect billions of dollars from the state budget each year to achieve this goal. [[Then what were you doing as a marshal?]] And what does the Law and Justice government do? What does Prime Minister Morawiecki do? [[Don't yell, there's a sound system here.]] Looking for Peter the Janitor's office, or a deputy minister, or a proxy, or a CEO, looking for money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for your own, not solving real Polish problems. [[Applause]] [[Pathetic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u203	Thank you very much. Before I vote for Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski, I wanted to welcome the children of the Iława local school team. We welcome you very warmly. You're welcome, sir. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u204	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant, is it true that the boiler's achievement of the criteria of Class IV and V is a positive indication of its efficiency and purity? Such boilers burn fuel in a virtually invisible way, unsensible, emitting less than 10% pollution, and at this point there would be an open way to use Polish mining. Here's another thing. Isn't it so that by allocating PLN 10 billion to replace boilers and individual sources of power for single-family homes, we neglect, however, the development of heating networks? In this case, the same amount allocated to the development of the district heating network would have missed... We would also be subsidising foreign producers, who will certainly benefit from such large purchases, and the price of boilers will practically increase, so in this case it would be necessary to redirect [[♪ The bell ♪]] your thinking about the development of the district heating network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u205	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Sławomir Mazurka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The way young people listen to our debate, this is a debate about issues that also concern you, and I am glad that you are here. I'm a little sorry you have to watch your emotions, but they're probably also due to your commitment to good air quality, which is why I'd like to explain it to you and explain it to you. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that on 10 April 2018 the Council of Ministers adopted a position on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws, print No 2223. I would like to explain that although the very idea of strengthening the current system of air quality regulation in the country seems right and correct, the amendments proposed in the parliamentary bill have been partially implemented, while the others require a broader analysis and discussion. It should be noted that a number of amendments to the following legal acts are planned within the framework of the project: the Environmental Law, the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Energy Law, the Act on Housing Appendix, the Law on Compliance, the Law on Social Assistance, the Act on Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality, as well as the Act on the Emissions Trading System for greenhouse gases. Therefore, you will allow that due to the limited time to present the position of the Government of the Republic of Poland vis-à-vis the parliamentary bill in my speech I will focus on the most important proposals for changes. As a general rule, it must be accepted that part of the proposal for legal changes is in line with the current policy of the Government of the Republic of Poland and results directly from the strategic document submitted by the then Minister of the Environment on 9 September 2015 by the National Air Protection Programme by 2020 (the perspective by 2030) and hereinafter referred to as the National Air Protection Programme and prepared pursuant to Article. 91c Act of 27 April 2001 on the protection of the environment. This applies in particular to the proposals referred to in Article. 1 point 5, which are the requirements for solid fuel boilers, as well as the quality requirements for solid fuels for individual customers. At this point, however, it should be noted that in the case of key issues from the point of view of improving air quality in Poland, i.e. Regulation of the requirements for solid fuel boilers has already been carried out by publication on 9 September 2017 of the Regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance of 1 August 2017 on requirements for solid fuel boilers. On the other hand, in the case of the introduction of quality requirements for fuel, the permanent task is to develop and adopt a package of legal solutions including a draft law amending the Act on quality monitoring and control of quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration and three implementing acts to the Act, including in particular the Regulation of the Minister of Energy on quality requirements for solid fuels. I would like to inform you that the draft law amending the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration on 6 March 2018 was adopted by the Council of Ministers and subsequently notified by the European Commission on 14 March 2018. The three-month suspension period of the legislative procedure is the time we are in. It shall expire on 15 June 2018. On 19 March, the project was submitted to the Sejm for first reading in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The renewal of the legislative process of regulations, which were also notified to the European Commission, will be possible after the adoption of the bill by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Senate. It follows from the above that the Act can be adopted in the second quarter of 2018 and that the implementing acts can be adopted in the third quarter of 2018. However, the entry into force of the laws and regulations will depend on the decisions that will take place in the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, on the other hand, the proposal contained in the article. Point 1 (3) concerning the definition of a maximum level of information for certain substances in the air, with particular reference to PM10 dust, is the proposal contained in the draft unnecessarily restricts the freedom of the issuing authority for one of the 12 substances which are subject to an assessment of the level of substances in the air by the Environmental Protection Inspection. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the solutions proposed in the draft law could be contained in a regulation issued on the basis of Article. 86 of the cited law, not in the laws of the statutory rank - that is, the regulation, not the law. Referring to the proposal contained in the Article. Point 1, point 4, which would constitute the adoption of the National Air Protection Programme by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for the environment and defined the scope of the statutory delegation for its issue, I inform you that the government is negatively referring to this proposal. The Council of Ministers cannot agree with the proposed solution of changing the nature of the.National Air Protection Programme. Delegations included in Article. 91c of the Environmental Law, which was the basis for the creation of this programme, indicated that the document would set out the objectives and orientations of the action to be taken into account in the air protection programme, and this function was fulfilled. It should be clarified that, not without reason, the proposed actions have been divided into the specific orientations cited above by their nature and the authorities responsible for their implementation have been identified. They also included guidelines for action to create a legal framework to support the implementation of effective corrective actions. It should be pointed out here that not all actions can be introduced in the form of legal provisions, in this case to be implemented in the Environmental Law. The actions set out in the programme require a revision of the rules within the remit of the various ministries, which is also being implemented. In addition, it should be noted that the proposed legislative amendments to reduce the low emission phenomenon referred to in Article. 91c paragraph. The first point of point 1 and 4 are already introduced into the existing.National Air Protection Scheme. Therefore, it is not justified to prepare a change of the statutory delegation for the announced new version of the National Air Protection Programme, whose lines of action are identical to the current document. Referring to the proposals contained in the Article. 6, which would provide for the introduction of a new special-purpose allowance granted to cover its own contribution to extend the social assistance scheme to include a new category of special-purpose allowances, it should be clarified that the proposed amendment to the Act deviates significantly from the provisions of the Special-purpose Allowance Act. Given that the granting of special-purpose allowances is a task of the municipality's own, the project significantly interferes with the existing tasks of the municipalities. It should be noted that the proposed solution is to transfer to the municipality, the municipal social assistance system, a new financial obligation - the financing of own contribution to the expenditure related to the heating, electricity and gas supply plan referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Energy Law Act. It should be noted that the project does not indicate the cost of introducing this solution or its sources of financing by the municipality, which may result in an allegation of non-constitutionality of the proposed solution. At the same time, it should be pointed out that it does not comply with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 points 2 and 3 of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 30 July 1992. Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm the justification of the draft law is not valid for information on the actual state of air protection presented, including the legal status, in the area to be regulated. There are also no concrete differences between the current and the proposed legal situation. It should be noted that the project includes, among others, proposals for changes to national legislation in an area that has already been regulated. In addition, with regard to the proposed wording of the explanatory memorandum of the bill in point IV: The social, economic, financial and legal impacts envisaged, it should be noted that in accordance with the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 ww. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the draft law shall be accompanied by a statement of reasons which should present the expected financial consequences and indicate the sources of financing if the draft law entails a burden on the budgets of local government units. Having regard to the above, in its Article, 2 of the draft law is amended by introducing deductions from the basis for calculating the tax in the form of expenditure actually incurred to cover higher heating costs due to the use of a low-carbon heating source in the residential building. It should be noted that according to the Income Act of local government units of the municipality, powiats and voivodships have shares in income tax revenues from individuals, respectively in 2018: municipalities - 37,98% , powiaty - 10,25%, voivodship - 1,60%. It should be noted that the reduction in the tax base will have a negative impact on the budgets of local government units. In addition, in the article. 3 of the draft law is amended by the Energy Law Act. According to Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 (1) of the draft resolution of the Municipality Council - the plan for the supply of heat, electricity and gas fuels should describe the current state of demand for heat, electricity and gas fuels, including the full inventory of heat sources in the municipality. It should be noted that such inventory is very expensive. Achievement of this is often the cost from tens to several hundred thousand PLN - depending on the size of the municipality. As regards attempts by municipalities to take such measures, they are often undertaken in the framework of the implementation of the air protection programme, which is adopted by a resolution of the voivodship sejmik on the basis of art. 91 Environmental Law Act. However, the explanatory memorandum of the project does not specify the financial implications for the municipalities' budgets or sources of funding. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 of the draft law is amended to amend the Housing Supplements Act by extending the obligations of the mayor, mayor and the president of the city to grant a housing allowance, a green compensatory allowance where a low-carbon source of heating is used in the dwelling. Therefore, the financial implications for municipalities' budgets and sources of funding have not been estimated. In addition to these comments, the proposal is legislatively underdeveloped. It contains undefined concepts, for example. low-carbon heating, disposable income for individuals and households or non-precision concepts - e.g. Does a residential building mean any residential building or just a single-family house? The lack of clarification of these provisions and the possible entry into force of solutions in the proposed form raises interpretative doubts and will lead to disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities against the application of reliefs. Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened to your discussions and I would like to say what the government is currently doing in relation to this discussion. I was at a meeting of the Sosnowiec Health Committee, where there was also a very hot debate. Some of your fellow Members were present during this debate. What I remember very strongly from this debate is the call of NGOs, some of the local governments, to make a judgment on what happened by 2015 a great mobilization to take action. That's when I answered you. It's been confirmed, it's being implemented. This is all that the government is doing in the area of Clean Air. From this stand, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki made it clear that this is a civilization challenge. And this is the first government to approach this topic in such a way and on such a scale. We understand the scale of this problem and the great responsibility that Poles have given us in terms of their health in terms of the state of the environment in which we live. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday a meeting of the steering committee was held, chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Appropriate declarations were made and it was pointed out that we will transfer PLN 25 billion to air protection purposes. [[How?]] We have specialized units, there's a national environmental fund, there's gonna be action. But we've already succeeded in these two pieces of legislation that I mentioned in my speech... They will be of great importance to the quality of our environment because... Ladies and gentlemen, all those who are interested in smog are well aware that these pollutants come from the communal and domestic sector, i.e. this is the area that these regulations will directly address. During the discussion, you mentioned the transport zones in order to limit... The Ministry of Environment has performed an analysis which indicates that we have four agglomerations in which the levels of nitrogen oxides are exceeded. This will do a great deal to reduce nitrogen oxides emissions, although it does not necessarily reduce dust emissions from transport. This should be taken into account. But local authorities should have the right and opportunity - in fact, they already have - to take such measures to reduce transport, to use sustainable urban transport plans and to ensure that citizens have the right means of transport within the budget. The European Union's resources distributed by the National Environmental Fund are also transferred to these objectives. The great program of electromobility, which is one of the flagship projects of this government, is also an element that will improve the quality of... man, all Poles. However, the most important thing is that we are trying to improve the economic situation in Poland, we keep our word against what was raining here, because the 500+ programme causes millions of Poles to come out of the poverty zone. This also improves what is related to energy poverty. But we will not stop at this because the State Treasury companies - I am talking about PGE here and about PGNiG - are taking action on the preparation of special tariffs to combat this energy poverty. This collective effort certainly won't be in vain. We will be very consistent, because this is the goal that our boss, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, set before us. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, once again, the government of the Republic of Poland is negative about the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws contained in print no 2223. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. And please, the representative of the applicants, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I may begin by answering the opinion and position of the government, and then I will move on to answering the Members' questions. Minister! If you had applied the criteria that you applied here and quoted about correct legislation to government projects, none of your projects would have survived. How is it that the impact assessment of regulation, which, unlike government projects in parliamentary projects, is not required, does not include billions on counters in a government project such as Water Law? [[Why don't you read the impact assessment?]] I'm just not gonna comment on it anymore. Excuse me, Marshal, I'm asking you to assure me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u209	Ladies, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u210	Don't speak plural, I'm polite.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u211	Mrs Lenartowicz is now on the speaker and says, and I ask you very much to listen to this statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u212	So I think that this criterion even government projects can't stand it. Of course, we didn't get all the senses. This is a parliamentary project and we were hoping for light cooperation with both the government agendas and the experienced Mrs Paluch to correct and correct the discussion... It's a project, isn't it? From the point of view of the parliamentary project... If this project were to try on the parliamentary projects that usually replace your government - I'm talking about the PiS - yours would not be able to withstand any competition at all, they should not be put into any discussion at all. I'm not gonna go any further on that. You confirm that the project is in line with the National Air Protection Programme. And why shouldn't it be compatible if he's proposing to strengthen the status of the program, which our government has yet passed, to the law? You don't agree, because then you have to enforce him, and right now you're waving this program and not doing it. One of the questions was: What is the state of implementation of this programme? I once asked Minister Szyszko about it. You know what he said to me? He said the dust is from the Sahara at all. That was the answer, and the precise questions concerned the state of implementation of the various points. I will also refer to the clean air programme and these actions of the government. The Clean Air program - it's hard to say that it's a program, 14 points on one piece of paper, and it's different rank, sometimes completely abstract. Two of them were. implemented and one-hole boiler regulation. As far as these boilers are concerned, Mr Sitarski, the government has already given you these restrictions, so questions to me concerning boilers and fuels are unreasonable. Let me remind you that in this law we are talking about minimum requirements so that these regulations cannot be amended. That's what this is all about, not the introduction of regulations. From this program, clean air does not result in anything. Then came the Polish program without smog, notabene title taken from my presentation, which showed that for 1,200 PLN per house we will thermomodernize 100% buildings in Silesian and Lesser Poland voivodships. That's what Minister Emilevich was talking about. Suddenly, it turned into a program called "Smog alloy," which only works at press conferences because it didn't even get the PowerPoint presentation, it doesn't even exist. There is one thing, and it is not even a program, a mini-communication in Skawina, a supposed pilotage, which consists in mutual declarations with a friendly local government, where you really shift responsibility to the same local government. This is one great fiction, and we were hoping that we could debate and talk as the Prime Minister declared. This is a great illustration of how these declarations are implemented. I don't want to talk about the electromobility that this affects smog anymore, and about this project that doesn't give rise to anything except the requirements of the charging station. I don't want to talk about antismog tariffs. After all, tariffs have already appeared, which had Polish taxpayers cost more than previous electricity charges. Because you wanted to fund - there was also this program supposedly - 3 million electric furnaces for energy poor, who will pay for this electricity according to the fare by 50% It's more expensive. Maybe I can turn to the questions in the positions of clubs and individual Members. Thank you, of course. We regret that you and your intellectual contribution do not see the need to cooperate and work on this project. As for the answer to the Kukiz Club, for Mr Sitarski, these records, which you asked about both the quality of the fuels used, correspond to the current regulations of you, the citizen, the inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship, the anti-smog resolution. They are estimated to be minimal. In the case of fuel, in the case of wood, we are talking about humidity. You can just smoke in the fireplaces, just like in Germany, but you can't smoke with wet wood. As far as boilers are concerned, the regulation complies with the requirements of ecodesign. There's gonna be an obligation to enter soon enough. Take a look at the proposal for a standard law for fuel that has already been prepared and addressed to the committee, and as a result. Ecologists, not only environmentalists, because experts criticize them that there is basically everything there, but they still do not meet your conditions because they allow certain types of fuel to be eliminated. As for the position of the Modern Club, we thank and hope for cooperation. The law is of a framework nature. Firstly, we are hoping for an improved and broad public consultation, already formal, at Parliament level. As far as concepts and analyses are concerned, we'd be happy to benefit. Our analyses and estimates, which she questioned in some way whether she questioned Mrs Lieder, are based on independent think tanks' analyses. If you're interested, we'll make it available. Although we are open, that's what the debate is for, and that's what it's built for. This is a powerful undertaking, after all. The idea is to work it out in social harmony, also in political agreement. We all breathe the same air. Our voters don't look at it. After all, it is not that it is the air of PiS, the air of Kukiz or the air of someone there, depending on where the electorate is located, usually not according to geographical criteria. [[A democratic blend in this air.]] Yes. As far as Mr Grunkle's question on the position on energy plans is concerned, I understand the concerns about costs, they are raised by local governments. Minister Mazurek also discussed this issue in the interest of local government. The point is that making this inventory is necessary. It can be done, it is discussed even with experts of the Silesian union. This can be done with, for example, a network of chimney sweepers. The methodology is well known. We have to do this. How can we develop some sensible strategy and tactics for it if we don't have a diagnosis? And this is a diagnosis. The cost of building these plans and the entire advisory part of these municipal plans, which we propose, can also be financed from this project. It's not just gonna be thrown on the municipal barracks. As well as the costs of the benefit, as in the context of these 0,5% GDP will be co-financed for investments for citizens, as will these sources will provide funding for targeted benefits and for these increased housing allowances. It's about redirecting this to the place they're coming from. I have already mentioned - Mr Gadowski - the National Air Protection Programme. I was talking about the answer: dust is from the Sahara. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera and Mrs Chybick spoke about the impact on children's health. It's not even diagnosed at all. There are further analyses that talk about how deep the health effects are, especially in the case of children's organisms, due not only to the smog that floats in the air, but also to the secondary pollination from dust that settles, among others. on playgrounds, which children raise, and from their natural construction it appears that they are kind of closer to this floating dust. He has influence on many, many generations, on children, but also on those still unborn children, which PiS cares so much about. Mr Romecki of the Kukiz club asked how much fuel costs would increase. The cost will increase. Green fuel is more expensive. Even if we use them efficiently, as we assume, it will cost more. If, despite this deep thermomodernization, despite increasing the efficiency of combustion or energy consumption, because it is not always burning, and saving these costs will be higher, that is what we want to spend... The point is that Poles are greener, healthier warmth does not cost more so that their household budgets are not ruined. Income available. Minister, it's defined, you can even look at GUS analysis, there's no problem defining it. And when it comes to residential buildings, we take into account the multi-family ones and the one-family ones. That's not a problem either. Besides, these multi-family communal ones, which Mr Chybick referred to, which are still de facto tanned with goats, are of particular interest. Here I wanted to say to Mr Sitarski: we do not impose what to replace. We leave it to the commune. It is to choose such a model of energy transformation, heat in its area, which is suitable for this. We're not gonna pull the grids, we're gonna have to choose the heating grids in Podkarpacie, because that's where we're gonna have to choose other distributed sources. This municipality is to decide, taking into account its terms and conditions, including social consent, what model is most appropriate and to the results and on which model it wants to allocate money first - public money, but also those already coming directly from taxpayers' pockets. I do not know whether Mrs Paluch has read this or not, but experience - unfortunately I am forced to cooperate with the Member on the committee... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] A specific type of reading, so to speak, presents Mrs Paluch and I would not like to comment on it in any way. I would also like to reply to Mrs Radziszewska, in that case Prime Minister Morawiecki, since with the mouth of a government representative says that he is negative about this bill, he proposed solutions and that there be a chance to devote time to the parliament not for the story, but for a real presentation on the charts, figures and facts, what the government has already done and what plans, with the sources of funding, according to all the criteria that Minister Mazurek mentioned, with the consequences of regulation, with burdens, with plans. You said the Minister was 25 billion. Yeah, I heard Minister Wozny say that at that conference. This is hypothetical money. He will try to ensure that they are included in the future financial perspective of the European Union - when you have not even submitted an idea to the Commission on the budget. It's a story and a declaration. Mrs Kołodziej asked about the scheme "Smog stop." Same situation: this is not a program. It's not a show. This program is to be financed with PLN 180 million - sic! - which, normally, here we still need to change laws, are allocated by BGK for thermomodernization in housing cooperatives in this program, for which - so in our day - was spent up to 500 million. Now the only 180 million that is to be there is to be taken away and allocated to these buildings, for which not even 1,200 zlotys per building will be enough. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I am just replying to Mr Sitarski that this is not a choice: a boiler or a heating network. I mean, it's not a choice decreed in this bill, that choice should be made by the local community, [[♪ The bell ♪]] local government, so that it is - may even vary - for the benefit of the residents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u213	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u214	Ladies and gentlemen! In short, the initiative is very good and the parliamentarians of PSL-ED will vote in favour of the procedated law. Except, for the sake of order, the initiative should come from Mr.Peter Wozny, a government employee, supposedly responsible for fighting smog. When presenting this bill, opposition parliamentarians deliver to the government and save the state's budget from astronomical punishments from the European Union. The year 2020 is coming up with great steps when Poland should significantly reduce smog emissions in accordance with EU Directive 2009/28/EC and reach 15% the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption. Meanwhile, as confirmed by the CSO studies, this share is falling under the PiS regime. This may be just a coincidence, but the work on this law coincided with the pure air programme announced by the government yesterday from January 2017 and was due to be ready by the fourth quarter of 2017 at the latest. Coincidence? Rather, the opposition finally mobilized the government to prepare it. Better late than never. However, we are asking for an extension of the provisions of the Act to encourage Poles to fight smog. It is worth considering together the creation of a tax exemption system for investing in clean air for citizens and entrepreneurs. PIT should also be amended by exempting subsidies received from environmental funds from taxation. Environmental protection will be effective when proposals are accepted by Poles. We should also consider the comments of the municipalities' association that the obligation to draw up new energy supply plans will be difficult and costly to implement, which may cause additional complications. Or is it worth relinquishing the implementation of the National Renewable Energy Development Programme prepared two years ago by PSL? These are things that we can work out together.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The air in Poland, in colloquially speaking, leaves much to be desired. And as we all know, this is a very mild term for our situation today. Years of neglect in this area have led us to be the country at the forefront of those with the most polluted air in Europe. Although the problem of smog has existed in Polish cities for a long time, it is only such a critical situation as we have today that the opposition has moved us to take any steps that result in the present law. The steps that the Supreme Audit Chamber called for as early as 2000 in its report. In my opinion, however, the saying is not quite working in this case: it is better late than at all, although I have no doubt that the proposed amendment could have a positive effect. Air pollution is a nationwide problem. Government and local authorities need decisive action to reduce this problem and ultimately eliminate it completely. The first such measures have already been taken by the current authorities. Among other things, by creating a strategy for responsible development and adopting the "Clean Air" programme, they have shown that they see the real danger of smog in the air. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also announced the fight against smog in his exposé, and today it can be said with all determination that it was not the words thrown on the wind. The consultation of the government's draft amendment on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovations will be completed shortly, allowing for the implementation of the pilot scheme "Stop smog" announced in February this year. In the face of these actions, I have doubts about the purpose of further proceding this parliamentary project. Unlike the previous years, the current government has a plan to carry out this fight and is implementing it with the knowledge that years of omissions cannot be repaired quickly by one law, and that coordinated work is needed step by step leading us to the goal. Therefore, I believe that it would be in the interest of our country and our health if the opposition, substantively and beyond divisions, were involved in the procession of an amendment which, I hope, will soon reach the Marshal's staff. Meanwhile, near Free and Solidarnia will vote against this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u216	A request for rejection at first reading of the bill and a request for additional referral of the bill to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals at the next session of the Sejm. I now declare an 8-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 51 hrs. 14 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 61st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice, will make his first statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to make a statement commemorating the events of 35 years ago that took place in the Mint and Garwolin schools in 1983 and 1984. I would like to pay tribute to all those who at the time of the trial protested against the removal of the cross from the school room. We also remember about Włoszczów and other places where the hearts of young people showed us where the real Poland is. In 1983, the communists came to the conclusion that, after the crushing of the solidarity, they could proceed to further pacification of society, to enter into the sphere of faith with shoes. And they're in. They entered the Zomo boots, drove in the militia nyska, marched in the columns of armed clippers. Stalin once asked how many divisions the Pope had. This is the question that the communists have answered to the young people of Miętny and Garwolin. Those caught, detained at night in the meadows around the city, interrogated and bullied could only respond with their determination, faith, sense of community. There's been a strike. After months of negotiations, mass prayers in schools, letters of protest the cross returned to the classroom. From this point on, I want to thank hero youth who has not bowed to violent force. I want to bow down to the leaders of the strike, those brave teachers who stood up for the truth. I want to thank the priests who supported them in prayer, and they took the side of young people. We all remember that when the negotiations were over, our Bishop John Mazur began his hunger for bread and water. It wasn't a movie story, it was a feeling, a real fear of what they might still go to, a sense of domination and the power of the communist authorities. With God's help, with the feeling that we cannot take everything, that we are young people with dreams, that our country is Poland, and they are a foreign body, we have been through it. Why do I let myself write and say that? Because when I was in this crowd of young people, I tried to support our older colleagues at my Garvolin school. Today, as a Member of the Republic of Poland, I am proud to say that I know real heroes, on the street I pass people from whom we can all learn decency here in the Seym. My land is full of beautiful history, where the depth of faith, the sense of life and the sense of communion got their new expression. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the invitation of the directors of the Museum of Kociewska Land and the Museum of Gdańsk, I was to take part in the opening of an important numismatic exhibition in my home town, Starogard Gdański. Thank you very much to the directors for inviting me to this exhibition, unfortunately, my duties as Members did not allow me to take part in this beautiful event. As far as I am aware, this is the third joint exhibition connected with the history of money on Polish lands, organized by the mentioned museums. This one, however, is unique because it fits into the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. It is also a positive example of good cooperation between cultural and educational institutions. Undoubtedly, it is an important event that entered Poland's 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The numismatics and banknotes expounded on it present a process and a huge effort which the Polish state took to reform the Polish monetary system, choking hyperinflation, rebuilding the economy and many other areas of Polish national life. The process of creating the Polish national currency, and then putting it into circulation, was carried out in a rather turbulent political situation connected with the struggle for state borders. In the Eastern Kresów there was a defensive war against Soviet Russia, the return of Silesia to Poland was fought against the Germans. In Wielkopolska an uprising broke out, the result of which decided to belong these lands to Poland. Plebiscites were conducted in other disputed areas. The territory of the reborn country introduced the Polish national currency - gold. This was extremely important, for from Roman times, where there was money in circulation with the image of the emperor, it had its power. Similarly it was on Polish lands, where Polish gold was in circulation, there was Poland. Once again, I would like to congratulate the directors of these institutions on their excellent idea of organising this exhibition, as well as all those who have prepared it. I would like to point out once again that the fact that such an exhibition was organized during the 100th anniversary of regaining independence is particularly important due to the direct connection with the events of this beautiful period of building the Polish state again. It is important that every event of this kind refers to this important anniversary. So that we can remind Poles as often as possible of the values that confirm us in the belief that freedom, sovereignty are priceless to every nation, and well only to Poles who have suffered so many humiliations from the two invaders in recent years. April 13 is the day when I take part in Katyn ceremonies in my hometown, Starogard Gdansk. This year it is different, which is why I direct these words spoken here, in the Seym of the Republic of Poland, to all inhabitants of Starogard, Kociewi and the whole of Pomerania. Let us remember those who gave their lives in defense of their homeland on an inhuman earth. But also let's face the brave Poles who, without regard to adversity, stand in the truth. They stand in the truth, defending those who can no longer defend themselves, and deserve eternal memory. They stand in the truth to defend our history. I would like to express my special thanks to all the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. I thank them for their work in discovering our history and further conveying it. I wish all of you a profound experience of patriotic and pride in being a Pole, because this exhibition, which I could not openly come to, and this opening place, the old town hall of old-garden, provides an excellent opportunity for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On 10 April 2018, we paid tribute to Poles - Polish officers who died in Katyn. But this celebration coincided with the celebration of the 8th anniversary of the Smolensk tragedy. Poles participated in a great number in the unveiling and dedication - in Warsaw on pl. march. Józef Piłsudski - a monument that commemorates all the victims who died in a tragic flight near Smolensk. They were commemorated: Mr Lech Kaczyński and his wife, Mr President in exile Ryszard Kaczorowski and the remaining 93 people. It was a great experience for the whole of Poland. I would like to pay great homage to the heroes of independence, because both these officers died in Katyn during World War II, as well as those who went to Katyn on the 70th anniversary to commemorate them in order to pay their homage, are heroes of independence. Building a monument was a great event that would go down in history, a good story. Poles demanded this as a Polish nation for 8 years, or actually 6 years. Only after the change, when Law and Justice ruled for two years, could the foundation stone be placed under the monument of President Lech Kaczyński. Yesterday I attended the commemoration of the foresters who died in Katyn. This memorial took place on the territory of the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Radom, in the village of Jedlnia-Letnisko, on the terraña of Kozienicka Forests. There the foresters gathered in great numbers to reveal and sacrifice the monument of their ancestors--the reserve officers who fell in Katyn. The foresters were the third largest of the number of people killed in Katyn by a professional group. 820 foresters, officers of the Polish Army reserve, were killed. Yesterday, the next generations honored them and honored their memory. This all happens in the century of regaining independence by Poland, because Poland regained independence 100 years ago. And at this point it must be said that these victims worshiped both on en. march. Józef Piłsudski in Warsaw, as well as in the forests of Kozienicka Forest, are the victims of this century, initiated by regaining independence in 1918. Poland during these 100 years after regaining independence in 1918 for at least seven decades She wasn't free and independent, she was bleeding, she was taking victims. Today we pay tribute to the great Poles who deserve to be called heroes of independence. Praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u222	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the participants of the 16th Congress of the Association of Scouts of the Republic, which is sitting nearby, in the premises of the Ministry of Investment and Development at PL. Three crosses. The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! My union! I come to you for the first time as one of you, a member of our scout community of bridesmaids and friends of the ZHR, who has recently come to serve as an honorary Member of the Republic. At the same time, I come as a Pole concerned about the axiological condition of our common homeland and the fact that so much in the national bloodstream so-called. bad blood and resentment of one against another. At the same time, I see that our fellow nationals are too often slowed down from the necessity of caring for the heritage of their ancestors, preferring to continue working for Poland to be our glory, and that we would become a proud nation in an equal family of European nations. What does our relationship have to do with our scouting creed of service to God, our homeland, and our neighbor? These are the issues that certainly concern your attention during the reunion to answer the question of how we, modern scouts and scouts, can be useful to Poland in the 21st century. How can we increase her prosperity and influence the satisfaction of being Polish or Polish? Allow us to raise three issues: our role in creating, supporting the community of the nation on both its broad scale and our small homelands, our role in creating new, useful and best competences of the young Pole, so that he can soon become responsible for the work of the state, self-government and social community, and finally our role in maintaining the faith of our fathers, traditions of our families and respect for the symbols and customs of our nation, including special sensitivity to the Polish language, national colours, our anthem, places of memory and glory, symbols, customs and rites. I don't develop these threads, let them resonate with your awareness, sensitivity and willingness to find answers to inspiring questions. And I would like to stress that the whole thing comes down to understanding the necessity of history, which lies in our participation, namely the obligation to shape elites. Although malicious commentators can mock this postulate, it does not change my determination and certainty that today is our most important task in the face of the intellectual property of many, weakness and hesitation of axiological-normative attitudes and cowardice in undertaking tasks and taking responsibility for them, it is important that we raise people intelligent, competent, ready to serve our anchors: faith, homeland and neighbour. For us scouts, I don't think it's new, indeed it is. The trouble is, contexts change. The world is overly effective in trying to knock arguments out of our hands and to make sure that no matter what time it is, the best scenario for life is to be an honest and good man, and then when your talents tend you to do it, take the lead, become an avant-garde, a demiurge of good change, of the world itself and yourself, of the world that is entrusted to you. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids, may this time of reunion be a time of good reflection, good decisions and good development of the Association of Scouts of the Republic. Watch out! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u224	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the many efforts of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), supported by representatives of fruit and gardening communities, a completely new and highly beneficial type of employment contract for farmers will enter into legal circulation. The new type of contract will be very attractive for most farmers employing workers during seasonal work. The new agreement and the new act on social insurance for farmers have been part of the solidarity of individual farmers since March 2017. During this time, representatives of the union participated in consultations with representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Agriculture, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, KRUS and ZUS. In the final phase, the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), in order to make the agreement available to the wider circle of farmers, and not only to Sadists and Gardeners, as the original project had foreseen, has engaged in talks with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Jacek Sasin. In view of the opposition of the workers' environments, consultation of agricultural solidarity with the Prime Minister proved to be crucial for the possibility of implementing this very favourable agreement for farmers into the Polish legal order. The subject of consultation with the government party was the amendment of the law which was adopted by the Sejm yesterday. The new rules enter into force with an extraordinary short deadline - 7 days after the publication of the amending act. Thanks to agricultural efforts, the agreement on harvest work contains many unique features. It is the only contract in the Polish legal order not required to provide minimum work, it is the only contract with only two contributions, i.e. health and accident, instead of seven contributions as in the case of employment contract: retirement, pension, accident, illness, health, labour fund, Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. The additional benefit is due to the fact that the accident premium will be paid by the farmer in proportion to the employment dimension. In view of the above, I would like to thank all those who contributed to the substantive work on this law, including the extension of the provisions on tobacco, hops and herbal crops. I thank the Prime Minister, all the administrative staff of the various departments, the environment of agricultural organizations, and above all on behalf of the union and my personal part - Dr Mariusz Miąsko and his law firm Viggen for their free great work as legal assistance on this, but also on other draft laws for Polish farmers and the development of family farms in Poland. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u226	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to read a letter from a young boy who is a disabled person asking for support in the construction of the so-called. training apartments. High Seym! On behalf of people with disabilities, I would like to call for support for measures aimed at mobilising assisted housing. Such housing plays an important role in the life of people struggling with their disability every day. Each of us experiences a moment where we must become independent. This also applies to people with disabilities, but in our case it is much more difficult. Often we have no choice but to act suddenly because of the loss of strength of our parents or their departure to our God. We don't have a choice then. We can't function on our own. We then land in help homes, which are aimed at helping those in the fall of life. These are very important social centres, which do a lot of good to those in need. However, this is not the place for us young people. We don't need full care. We need help. only in those activities where, due to disability, we cannot manage ourselves. As the motto of the Good House Association says - the minimum aid for maximum independence. We need this proverbial fishing rod in the form of sheltered housing to expand our wings. In such homes, we are able to help each other in our daily lives. And the caretaker's help is limited only to activities that some of us are not fully able to cope with. What's important is that Also a much cheaper form of helping people with disabilities. By allocating the same appropriations from the budget, a larger group of people in need can be supported. I therefore call on the entire Sejm, on behalf of people with disabilities, to support actions aimed at promoting such housing, including the introduction of legislation to increase the possibility of launching and operating shelters. Signed by Patrick Grab. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u228	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 13 we celebrate the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime. The feast was established on 14 November 2007 in order to commemorate the victims murdered by the NKVD by the decision of the Soviet Union authorities of 5 March 1940. Also on that day sleep. President Lech Kaczyński promoted posthumously all known soldiers, police officers and other uniform officers by the name of the murdered. The choice of the date of memory, 13 April, commemorates the anniversary of the publication by Germany in 1943 of information about the discovery in Katyn near Smolensk in Russia of mass graves of officers of the Polish Army. As a result of the Soviet authorities' criminal decision, ca. 22,000. Polish citizens, including officers, scientists, doctors, artists, professionals, priests, teachers and state officials. The bodies of the victims were buried in collective graves in Katyn, Miednoje near Twer and near Kharkov, Kozielsk, Starobielsk and Ostaszkow. Victims were shot in the back of the head and thrown into deep pits dug in the ground. The families of the murdered - approx. 61 thousand. people - were deported into the USSR, mainly to Kazakhstan. The discovery of the corpse was made by Polish workers in the summer of 1942, on the basis of information obtained from the local population. Germany was informed of the discovery that it had carried out exhumation work. On April 15, 1943, the Polish government in exile ordered its representative in Switzerland to ask the International Red Cross to set up a commission to examine the exposed graves. On 17 April 1943, the Polish party submitted an official note in Geneva, while learning that Germany had also asked the ICC to initiate an investigation. Moscow responded to the proposal to investigate by the International Red Cross with resentment, assigning Poland a collusion with Germany to conduct a campaign against the Soviet Union. The situation resulted in Moscow breaking diplomatic relations with the Polish government in exile at night from 25 to 26 April 1943. In the absence of a possible investigation with the help of the MCK, Germany decided to conduct its own investigation to determine the details of the crime. It was found that Polish officers were murdered at the turn of March and April 1940. The Soviets formed their own committee, which mistakenly attributed the Katyn crime to Germany and charged murders between September and December 1941. Until 1956, the communist authorities of the communist People's Republic of Poland spoke about the Perfidious German provocation in Katyn. Then the word Katyn disappeared completely - for years the censorship had erased them from every publication. The Soviet and Peerelow propaganda maintained for years that the perpetrators of the Katyn crime were Germany. The Soviet Union officially confirmed its responsibility for the crime only 50 years after genocide, admitting that it was one of the serious crimes of Stalinism. 13 April 1990 Mikhail Gorbachev provided the authorities of the Republic of Poland with transport lists of NKVD from camps in Kozielsk and Ostaszkow and a list of prisoners of the camp in Starobielsk. From that day the day of memory was celebrated for several years under the name: World Day of the Victims of Katyn. Also on that day, the Russian government press agency TASS published a communication which officially confirmed that Polish prisoners of war were shot by the NKVD in the spring of 1940. The NKVD Commissioner Lavrientii Beria and his deputy Vsevolod Mierkulov were identified as guilty of the crimes. In 2008, the Council The Polish Katyn Foundation established a Medal of the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime - a award awarded to people who in an outstanding way contributed to explaining the truth about the Katyn crime and commemorating its victims. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-sejm-61-3.u230	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. and prisoners Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 61st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 62nd session of the Sejm, convened on 8, 9, 10 and 11 May 2018, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 28]]
