ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u1	I open the 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Mark Pęk as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-second, sixty-third and sixty-fourth Senate sitting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. High Senate, I inform you that on 14 May 2018 the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in 2017. It is included in print No 828. I sent this document to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. Commissions on 25 September this year They took note of this document and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points two, three, seven, eight and nine of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, this is important information. I propose that item 10 be deleted from the agenda: the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017. If I don't hear... The Minister sent this request after the Senior Convention meeting, so I am giving this information to you at the moment. The request to consider this point at our next meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. and consider it as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Rulewski...]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the session is stopped and the committee's report on the matter is prepared. Today, at 12:00, an hour break will be announced, during which an exhibition will be opened outside, next to the entrance to the Senate, in homage to Zbigniew Herbert 1924/1998. To consider point 12, i.e. information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January, June 2018, we will join today after 4 p.m. We will begin tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. with the examination of the 13th item, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We will then proceed with the examination of the tenth point, i.e. The ratification bill... [[Nine o'clock.]] Yeah, on the ninth, 'cause we crossed out the tenth. We will then proceed with the examination of the ninth point: the Law on ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006. We will then proceed with the joint examination of the 10th and 11th paragraphs: the report of the National Radio and Television Council and information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. For the examination of point seven, i.e. Act on amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State, we will proceed tomorrow after 5 p.m. On the third day of the meeting, Friday, we will begin at 9.00 a.m. with the examination of the 14th item, i.e. second reading of the draft resolution on the anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. In the absence of legislative proposals to this point, the vote will take place immediately after consideration. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of prof. Kazimierz Pelczar's merits on the 75th anniversary of his death. I would like to warmly welcome the guests at the meeting: Maria Pelczar, the Professor's daughter We welcome you very warmly, Professor; [[Applause]] ...Mr. Kazimierz Pelczar, Professor's grandson, and wife; [[Applause]] ...and Mr. Jan Pelczar, Professor's great-grandson. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome you all very warmly. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. The draft is contained in print No 906, and the committee's report In print No 906 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Professor Pelczar's Family! I have the great honour to submit a report to the Legislative Commission, which was held on 19 October, on the draft resolution on the commemoration of Professor Kazimierz Pelczar's merits on the 75th anniversary of his death. The Commission adopted a text with minor amendments. There was a big discussion, there were a lot of votes, but there was no controversy, there were legislative and linguistic amendments. High Izbo, let me read the contents of this resolution. In this way, I would like to express my respect for all those working in committees. Because this text is worked out by both committees... In view of this respect, I will not add my words, but I will quote the words of both committees. On September 17, 1943, Professor Kazimierz Pelczar, a prominent Polish oncologist, world-famous scientist and medical authority, didactics, social and humanist, man of extraordinary goodness and personal culture was shot in the Vilnius Ponars by order of the Gestapo. He was born on August 2, 1894, in Strawskavetca on the land of Lviv as the son of Dr. Zenon Pelczar, a well-known balneologist. His studies at the Faculty of Medicine of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow interrupted World War I and the appointment to the Austrian army and then Russian slavery. He took part in the Battle of Warsaw in 1920 under the command of Władysław Sikorski, for which he was awarded with the Cross of Valor. After the war he continued his studies and research work in Poland and abroad, worked as a doctor and lecturer at the Jagiellonian University, after 1930 he became professor and dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the Stefan Batory University in Vilnius. Professor Kazimierz Pelczar specialized in research and control of cancer. In 1931, he founded the first oncology centre in pre-war Poland under the patronage of the Vilnius Committee for Combating Cancer. The Research and Treatment Facility for Cancer Patients in Vilnius, where he implemented innovative therapies, among others. with radioactive radium and produced according to the original formulation of kephalin. He was a member of many Polish and international scientific associations, organizer of health care projects, as well as educator of young generations of medics. One of the biographers of Professor Kazimierz Pelczar, Professor Konrad Górski, wrote: "You have to speak with the best words possible, because it was a personality that was comprehensively educated, radiated from it intelligence, erudition, reading, mind about living humanistic interests (...). But above all, he was a man of extraordinary goodness, righteous, of extraordinary ethical qualities and a very deep morale humanist. (...) The Professor's whole personality was as if filled with the sense of the mission he had carried out in Vilnius in the 1930's. During World War II, Prof. Kazimierz Pelczar supported the Polish resistance movement, rescued refugees, members of the National Army and Jews, set up a Polish Committee for Helping Victims of War, presided over the Section of the Polish International Red Cross. He did not leave Vilnius, although he was offered prestigious positions in New York, London, Paris or Rome. He was arrested on the night of 16 to 17 September 1943 in Vilnius, as one of 100 hostages, in retaliation for the execution by the National Army of a sentence on a police officer of the Lithuanian security police Sauguma, Agent Gestapo. On September 17, he died along with nine other Poles in the execution in Ponary near Vilnius. His death was a great loss for Polish and world oncology. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Professor Kazimierz Pelczar, a prominent scientist and pioneer of Polish oncology, and at the same time one of the most outstanding interwar personalities of Vilnius, a figure who is a model of patriotic and civic virtues. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! There were Poles. We have such great Poles everywhere. We're proud of it. I'm asking for a resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the representative of the applicants. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymanski made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the commemoration of prof. Kazimierz Pelczar's merits on the 75th anniversary of his death. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 78 senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 1]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the commemoration of prof. Kazimierz Pelczar's merits on the 75th anniversary of his death. Please, Professor Maria Pelczar. I'll hand it over... [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 947, and the report is published in print No 947 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for African swine fever in the territory The Republic of Poland Senator's print No 947. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that meat obtained from swine free from African swine fever virus from areas subject to restrictions introduced in connection with the occurrence of ASF is managed. The meat to be produced for human consumption will come from healthy and tested animals. The entry into force of the Act will facilitate the sale of swine-free ASF virus by agricultural producers producing in restricted areas and thus will not increase unemployment due to the abandonment and processing of pigs in meat establishments. The law is very important, expected by farmers from the areas where the farm is kept and where the ASF has occurred. The aim of this law is to ensure that healthy meat from healthy pigs after the tests carried out can be sold without any restrictions at market price, and not, as has been the case so far, at a price underrated by purchasing companies that did excellent business on ASF. This law interrupts this practice, we run away from the difference between 2 PLN paid so far and 5 PLN, i.e. the market price. We end this exploitation under duress, we end this exploitation, which was within 3 zlotys and began to function perfectly. Since the entry into force of the law there will be a market price which is currently at the level of PLN 5. I will remind you that ASF, or African swine fever, is present today, in addition to Poland, in countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, Belarus. The recent outbreaks were also found in Belgium. The Act is to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr Marshal Borusewicz You're welcome. Then the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u6	Mr. Senator, who set the price for the exploitative situation, which is the 2 zlotys? Is this the price determined from the point of view of the Polish State or the Ministry of Agriculture, or was it otherwise determined? Well, who's making money from it, you said it. But who has determined such a price that, in the context of compensation, a farmer for a pig receives PLN 150.200 when on the free market the price of that pig would be about PLN 400?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u7	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u8	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, it was not a matter of who determined, but according to my understanding, the companies determine this, it was determined by the purchasing companies, which were doing an excellent business, because the purchase was carried out as if under the compulsion of veterinarians. They obliged such a purchase and determined this price, as I call it, the price of hunger, 2 PLN, and we know that during this time in circulation the market price of healthy pigs was at the level of 5 PLN. Hence the urgent introduction of this law. The point is simply to stop this dishonest activity, so to speak, and not expose those most disadvantaged, farmers, those in the area where the ASF occurred.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u9	Can I ask you another question? I have an additional question, Senator. Does that mean there was a collusion of buyers? I ask because the price was uniform, 2 PLN. Could this mean that there was a monopolistic collusion of buyers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u10	I can't really answer the question as to whether it was a conspiracy, I'm just saying it was a situation. As we know from experience, it is not only in the case of the buying-in of pigs, but in the case of the buying-in of various agricultural products very often the buying-in companies determine this most politely. A price that suits them and which has nothing to do with the actual cost of production. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u12	Senator, regions such as mine, Wielkopolska, the largest pig producer in Poland, are afraid of the spread of the disease. Does this bill protect us from this spread? I'm asking because she, if I understand her correctly, relieves the treatment of the animals with which the fever occurred. How does this law protect farmers? Are we sure that these healthy pigs Let us remember that in farms this applies to thousands of units All will be tested without exception and we will be 100% sure that the processing plants in the area The Greater Poland won't hit the swine with the disease and we won't spread it? What did it look like at the committee meeting? Have you obtained adequate assurances in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u13	Mr. Senator, I can answer yes, going back to history. If in 2014, when 3 outbreaks were detected, because there were 3 outbreaks, decisions were made to cut out, saying very badly, both all pigs and feral pigs within the 2 and 3 districts, one could suppose that it might have been possible to destroy the disease in the embryo. I say maybe, there are no guarantees. Same thing now. I'm going back to what the senator is asking, we're all afraid, we're all afraid, everyone who feels what we're practically in danger of. There is no wise man in this room or in this country who will tell us what to do and will be sure that the disease will not go any further. A classic example: a fire was recently found in Belgium, yes, in Belgium, and there were no wild boars. That's where the people moved it, isn't it? So for this disease, the terrible disease, the worst disease our generation's ever had, there's no prescription. There's no guarantee she won't move. All you have to do is ask, I don't know, for higher forces to be able to stop her, just like she's been stopped so far. Recently, even representatives in Brussels, who are not entirely in favour of us, congratulated our new minister for having managed to tame this disease in this narrow eastern belt. But there is no guarantee that the senator, the region where the most intensive production of the flock is, will not be affected. We hope we're doing everything. I'm not gonna talk about how we're gonna do this anymore, because we all know these methods. To prevent that from happening. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u14	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u15	Senator, that's right, abroad praises us, but despite the eradication of those farms where the paralysis occurred, the disease is spreading. It would seem, since it is not sufficient, that an amendment is needed, which will further strengthen these conditions. And what do we do? We're taking a step backwards. In the sense that now we're gonna stop knocking out the whole herd...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u16	I don't quite agree with the senator here. What more can you think of? There is an extended bioinsurance, and money has been increased as a result. Right? The farmer affected receives a refund of 75% expenditure. It's one thing. The second direction in the fight against ASF is wild boars. In my opinion, hunters do this shot very well, they're fully involved. Well, other ways to fight this horrible epidemic, with this horrible disease, there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u17	The next question will be asked by Senator Sługocki. I don't know if she's... Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Yes, I am. Good morning. Mr. Senator, I have a question. What about the farmers whose holdings, I would say, were all affected by African swine fever because they only specialize in pig farming? What compensation, what state aid can they count on?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u19	It wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting, but I'm gonna say, of course, for help... There are incentives. Larger amounts We do not yet know exactly what is to come from the RDPs, which means that there will also be EU funding. They can count on compensation, which will allow them to eliminate their previous breeding and switch to the breeding of meat cattle, because this is mostly what is proposed. But there was no question of the amounts at the committee meeting, so I'm not gonna answer exactly. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, was there any mention of why this compensation was only now raised to the market price of a kilo of the flock? What did it look like before? Why wasn't the problem diagnosed when the fifth law was adopted?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u22	I interrupt and answer right away: I don't know, we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I'm going to go back to Senator Augustin's question. You just said there were three outbreaks in 2014. Today we have about 150 bonfires... [[112.]] Well, that's over 100. So far, we've been killing entire herds, and now it won't be. What does that tell you? I'd like to know if... The national veterinarian should probably determine what the risk is. At the moment, we are completely changing this strategy that... these pigs will go to different places throughout Poland. Are we not going to increase the risk that the number of outbreaks As you said, there's definitely more of them now. In time, it will increase even more that the threat will simply be greater? For me, the opinion of specialists, i.e. our national veterinarian, is important. How does he assess the risk of whole herds not being slaughtered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u25	I can answer as I said at the beginning: there will never be a guarantee here... These pigs are very carefully examined and only from healthy breeding can they be bought, at these market prices, and slaughtered. But there is no guarantee that this virus will not be accidentally expanded.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u26	Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. A lot is said, written, told, even shouted what I witnessed at a meeting of hunters with the Minister of Agriculture in Baranów, but there is one thing missing. I haven't heard. What if it's already there? A professional team of scientists who could say something to the public about this disease, diagnose it, tell it what to treat it, and take some other action. So for now, there's this phase of spontaneity. When do we move on to professionalism in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u28	I can only say that there was no such thing at the committee meeting. My view or view of hunters' attitudes is as I pointed out at the outset. I, too, am a hunter and a hunter's attitude, and I judge their commitment very positively. 'Cause only one who's trying to get or shoot a wild boar knows how much time it takes. It's not like you're leaving and that's it. Often, you have to leave several times. And these hunters do it. Because there are regions where the disease occurred at the very beginning In which there is a reduction that we expect, i.e. there is virtually little presence, there are no wild boars. This can be done until the end, and when the African plague disappears from these regions, it will be very easy to transport healthy wild boars there and we will develop this breeding. So that I support the senator's voice, that surely the creation of a committee composed of people who are well-informed about the matter would be useful for this difficult situation that we have. [[Mr. Marshal, is there anything to add?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u30	I would like to say, for information, that the eastern regions of Lublin are already devoid of wild boars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u31	I agree with that, like I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u32	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u33	I have two questions for the senator. First. Well, you said you were a hunter. How do you feel about the Minister of Environmental Protection's recommendation to shoot down a dungeon with little pigs? That's the first question. Two. Will compensation also be covered by the research that the Act provides for? Well, if it is, let's say 10,000 pigs in breeding, then testing these pigs means a pretty big cost to the owner. Does the Act provide for compensation for the owner?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u34	I'm answering the Marshal's first question about my consent to the shooting at the dungeon. I think it's a higher power, a higher necessity. Because normally hunters never did, right? And now in a situation of violent reproduction, which has been influenced, among others. the conditions under which wild boars are staying at the moment, excellent conditions because there is corn When it comes to reducing the number of boars, this is essential. As far as the second question is concerned, I think the Minister will answer them, and that was not the case at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u35	Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you right now about your thinking. Because when we applied the Hunting Act, our opinion was similar, especially as far as those areas where the buildings are scattered are concerned. The killing ban was widened, the distance increased from approximately 150 to 200 m. And in situations where, for example, in the mountains, the enclosure is scattered, practically entire areas cannot be covered by the permission to kill, to lead wild boars. I see, for example. in their territory, that there are more and more of them. And you say hunters do a great job and shoot everything. What's it like in this area in the mountains?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u37	I'll answer to the senator right away. As everyone knows, because it is not a secret, being the rapporteur of the law, I voted against this law in its entirety, because I did not agree with its records, among others. And those too. I knew that as a result of this recording increasing the distance certain areas would be completely disabled, because physically there would be no possibility of firing. Therefore, I hope that the High Chamber will in the near future proceed with the amendment of this law. I do not agree with many of the provisions of this law, I will not speak with which. So that here I fully agree with what the senator said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u38	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u39	Indeed, the question arises as to whether, in the light of the shortcomings already described in veterinary services, there is a shortage of veterinarians. The implementation of the provisions of this law is realistic. Are additional veterinarians expected to be employed, and is the money foreseen for this? Because if these flocks are to be tested for slaughter, then someone has to do it. Are these services viable? Because the press says that the number of veterinarians is dropping rapidly, that there are no veterinarians.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u40	Senator, I share your view. It's not a secret what you're talking about. There's a missing inspection... As far as I know, there are announcements. I think that this will be addressed by the Minister on the acquisition or increase of the number of employees. Well, as a result, there must also be some increase in incentives for inspection work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u42	We're talking about this case as if we didn't realize the game knew no bounds. Even if we kill all pigs and all wild boars in Poland, what guarantee do we have that new infected animals will not come from abroad? It's such a digression. My question is about the labs. How many specialist laboratories are there in Poland examining animals before slaughter or 'Cause I don't know this procedure. After the slaughter? I'd like to join Senator Augustine's question. It's a necessity. Once again, we are dealing with certain activities related to the fact that veterinary services are underfunded. Today, a vet earning just over 2,000 zlotys leaves for other, better paid, mostly private jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u43	Mrs. Senator, I do not allow such a thought that we can kill all pigs and all wild boars in Poland, because I believe it and I hope that Poland will soon again be, so to speak, standing on the pork. It wasn't that long ago that we had all the Poles and some of the people from the East, was it? But then there were 20.22 million pigs, today we have as many pigs as we have, although it probably hasn't been counted to the full. I assume this situation will recover quickly and we will rebuild the state. As far as the lab question is concerned, I'm not gonna answer it because that wasn't the case. I don't know, I don't want to shoot... I think it must be... the Minister will answer that question for sure. There's got to be enough labs for them to run proper tests, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u44	That's all the questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Senators can now report... The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Mr Senator presented a very expressive bill. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, then Mr. Senator Augustine. Come on, Minister, over here, to the podium. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister... I'm sorry. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u45	Thank you. Minister, those 2 zlotys per kilogram that were paid to the farmer, that was the price... As a result, the farmer received some PLN 150.200 for the adult pig that was disposed of, while the market price was PLN 5, i.e. the farmer would receive about PLN 400. Was it the market price, or was it compensation? How'd you get two zlotys if... I ask, because if all rendering companies apply the same price, it is simply a collusion and for that there is an appropriate authority. So that's a fundamental question for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u46	I think that this topic is very precise and in such a way as to satisfy the curiosity of your marshal and to address the point of the problem, you presented Senator Łyczak. I can say one thing: the price of 5 PLN is, of course, the average market price and here it is ordained in a mandatory manner. It is simply that the government sets a price for this operation, which can be applied to the tradition of economics, but to this economy founded on values, among others. they also have a pedigree in St. Aquinas Thomas, fair price. And this is a fair price for those affected in all this ASF business. The price of 2 PLN or approx. 2 PLN, slightly higher or even slightly lower, because such prices were also, we are talking about the average price, is a quasi-market price. Because it wasn't any market price, the market price is 5 zlotys. It was an extortion price. In a situation where... There were these prototype situations, e.g. in Podlasie in 2014 and 2015 where Senator Łyczak spoke about it Instead of suffocating this ASF, a few bonfires were left behind. Then there was the zone, and the consequence was the price dictation of processing plants in that area, which simply established the price they could, in a situation where pigs were gaining weight, when these few hundred pieces had to be sold immediately, at any price, yet, so to speak, begging for these pigs to be disposed of from the farm. And under duress, such a batch of pigs was sold. Here through fair price, the average market price introduced the first dam. And the second barrier is that the public finance sector, which at the moment is the recipient of this meat Because these are not preparations, that is pork meat is obliged to buy from farmers rather than under other circumstances. It is obliged to purchase only from farmers who produce meat in endangered zones, where prohibitions are introduced, orders, some protection systems. Wherever there are restrictions resulting from ASF, the priority of purchase is guaranteed here. And that means that any possibility of market games around all of this is already disappearing. This is, in my opinion, a very good step towards not only mitigating the effects of ASF, but also contributing to... Because entities disappear, market participants disappear, who, I say straight away, in some sense are interested in leaving the situation unchanged, so that there is this gap between the price of PLN 2 and PLN 5. At this moment, wherever ASF will function, this gap will cease to exist, it will cease to have market conditions, which means it will cease to have consequences in the form of the fact that processors, processing plants will benefit from this distant, as it turns out after these many experiences, the market difference. This is the social, moral and economic benefit of this operation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u47	I'd like to ask you a question because you didn't answer me clearly, Minister. Minister, is the price of 2 PLN which was paid and paid until the end of the work on this law, that is the price determined by the State or its authorities? And is that compensation, or is that the market price? Please give me a clear answer to that question. [[Free market...]] [[It's not that, it's completely...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u48	It was not the country that set this price, it was the market. It's not compensation, it's just that the bets bought it at this price. [[But it's not about betting... it's not about meat establishments, it's about rendering. Pigs are slaughtered within a few kilometers and sent to be disposed of. Yes?]] But it's something completely different. After all, we're talking about meat, meat, which producers after a very comprehensive examination... It's not like it's gonna be disposed of after a very comprehensive animal test... [[But it's not being tested.]] ...just give them up for disposal. At the moment, we are no longer such provisions as to permit the disposal or to force the farmer to dispose of this meat. This is about buying healthy meat from pigs that go to slaughter, tested. I answer other questions here as soon as possible. All possible regulations... The government predicted these doubts, because all this is done in such an atmosphere, often also fueled by... This is about meat that is absolutely unthreatening to human health or life. We all know that, and we should all know that. However, it is often said here, giving this as an additional argument, precisely the so-called. co-existence or tolerance of ASF, so as to run some market games. So again, I'm saying this isn't... [[Minister, I'd like to ask you a question on the other hand, a little bit on the other hand, to get an answer.]] But I already told the senator... [[No, you didn't tell me how much a farmer gets for a fattened pig, the one that goes to disposal and doesn't go to buying. How much? Which government has determined compensation for such a farmer for pigs that go to disposal to the so-called. Bakutilu?]] [[It's priced and paid...]] [[It's not the government that decides. It's the disposal plant.]] It's the rendering plant and the veterinarians who decide it, not the government, Senator, Mr. Marshal. [[Not the government.]] [[Is there any compensation for these pigs?]] There it is. [[And the question is exactly what this compensation is.]] This is, Mr. Marshal, also under the responsibility of district veterinarians, of course supervised. This is compensation that the veterinarian determines under specific conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u50	Minister, I would ask you to reassure all those who have doubts. I'm one of them. If this bill doesn't reduce our safety. It, as it turns out, is still insufficient, because ASF is spreading. So now that healthy pigs are going to be slaughtered from a pigsty, where ASF cases have been identified before, there is a danger that we can further spread this disease. That's the first question. The second question concerns these veterinarians. If it really is to be that in large flocks, in farms, all individuals are to be tested to determine whether they are healthy or not... Who's gonna do it, if we hear today that veterinarians are overloaded, that they're missing because of low wages, that they're quitting their job, and so on.? Do you anticipate wage increases, recruitment of new staff? Because the bill will only be enforceable when there's someone to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u51	Mr. Senator, there's no... That's what I was talking about. The Senator rapporteur of the committee also made this very clear and convincing. All possible veterinary legislation, all EU legislation, which is in the context of ASF in its entirety, are attached to this law. And there isn't the slightest... any possibility of an acceptable answer or maintaining your doubts, because there's no way that there's any chance that there's circumstances in connection with the sale that this bill is about. Besides, we also need to know one thing: it is limited to places where there is a threat, where there are orders, prohibitions, restrictions, i.e. places where there are zones in this stretch. Yellow, blue and red It's an ASF. Nowhere else, right? All other remedies and methods to combat ASF are important here, which, of course, constitute a complex, but there is probably no need at the moment. Unless there are specific questions about it In order to go beyond the scope of the Act, she, as it turns out, arouses great interest of the senators. With regard to veterinary services, it is quite clear that the veterinary services that work in this particular area of ASF... We also need to know that we cannot extrapolate the phenomenon itself. Well, it's not like in one county, 50 or even 10,000 pigs will suddenly be killed for the local market. This is not the case, because most of these animals must be consumed and sold in the area in which they occur. Others may be exported, but this is not the scale that your questions are about. So it's for complete control. Of course, there is a practice that voivodship doctors or chief veterinarians will control this entire operation in terms of the possibility of strengthening... If you're asking, Mr. Senator, about a bill that will change the location of veterinary services that will make a major reform... It's obvious that the work is going on. There are some very profound controversies around the very approach to such a law. I believe that the reform of veterinary services in Poland should free the state veterinary inspection from this very dysfunctional structure within the designation procedure. Then there will be resources to ensure that doctors of veterinary inspection, state services, make a very decent profit, appreciate such a location, be surrounded by great prestige. It will solve all these problems to a great extent. And that's the point of the bill dispute, because all the funds granted, all the jobs will only Petrify this very bad state of affairs. On the one hand, it's about institutional helplessness that's being said. 'Cause she's totally in my opinion. On the other hand, about sticking to certain particular interests, because, as you know very well, the system of appointments is very diverse, to put it mildly, the earnings of the veterinary brothers: from 30,000 to 3,000... So my answer is this: the ASF cannot be held hostage by the reform, right? Or a reason to keep the situation that it is. In fact, it is a defense of this situation and thus, to put it so literally, the defense of ASF. After all, we're looking for situations like this when ASF stops being business. After all, this law, which at the moment with your participation in the finalizing of all efforts, eliminates situations in which someone on the ASF was earning a profit. This is the key to this case. The government is going in such a way that those zones where there is some contact between ASF and someone else's benefit, the market advantage, that is, the benefit of an excellent economic situation towards such a phenomenon... Well, we're gonna get ahead of it, and we're gonna get into it, and there's gonna be state processing plants in order to react very quickly to these situations. There will be rendering facilities that won't allow foreign capital to be made here, there will be state bets that will make what should be done. At the same time, it will be a very clear signal that there will be no global or other business here. That's not gonna happen. Where business areas disappear, it will also disappear from Poland's ASF.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u52	Thank you very much. I remind all the participants of the debate that in 240 seconds I will announce an hour's break, so if we do not finish this point by 12.00, we will have to return to this point at 1 p.m. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, recently the Committee on Agriculture has been in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and we have heard from a voivodship veterinarian that there are problems with the filling of district centres by veterinarians and that this is particularly acute in places where the virus occurs. What does the government intend to do to ensure that there are no facilities that are not established by district veterinarians?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u54	Mr. Senator, these are situations that remain absolutely in the hands of the primary physician. I take it as a signal for immediate intervention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns the effects. Aren't you afraid that this loosening of certain rigors will be a pretext? Let's just say it. To block the export of our meat, its sales to external markets? That's the first question. The second question concerns the reasons. The mother's law is from September 2016. During the mother's bill, we proposed here in this room to build a fence so that the boars wouldn't come to us from the east. Do you think that the idea of building a fence, as one of the methods of fighting ASF, can still be used? If so, when, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u57	I'm answering the first question. There's nothing here I've already said, Senator, no loosening. This law includes absolutely all possible strict rules, at the head of the That's the motive you've raised here. With EU rules. There's a de. In fact, the agreement to such a law is the implementation of all restrictions and all EU legislation. So that there is no loosening in the sale of this meat as healthy and safe meat. I'll tell you more, there are all possible pre-emptive restrictions. As far as the fence is concerned, I think the discussion on this subject has been passed through Poland and I think it has already ended, but thank you for the question. The fence wasn't the happiest idea. Moreover, this idea was discussed, which means that different opinions were expressed on the subject, and there were different opinions. The European Commission also spoke here, and various experts spoke. The vast majority of the opinion was that the fence would not meet its hopes, would not be a fundamental barrier. I deeply share that view. The most important barrier to the spread of ASF is what I announced to you here, and what we will do next, when we finally pass a law that will rule out doing business on ASF, will rule out situations when it was done. This is a barrier. If we proceed consistently, if we always use this philosophy, then I said it clearly. The ASF will run away from Poland. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u58	At this point, unfortunately, we have to stop Question Time. Thank you very much, Minister. We'll get back to that point at 1:00. Although we're a little disappointed that you've been talking prose all along. I'm declaring a recess until 1:00 p.m.... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: This is not the time, Mr. Marshal.]] Dismissed until 1 p.m. I invite you to the opening of the exhibition entitled "In homage to Zbigniew Herbert 1924 It's 13 degrees outside. Please wear warm clothes. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u59	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever on the territory of the Republic of Poland. We would like to return to asking a government representative questions about this item on the agenda. Minister, come in. You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I almost forgot I was gonna ask the minister. This concerns the public sector obligations imposed, i.e. that they are to buy this meat from, let's say, those pieces slaughtered by necessity. How exactly does the Ministry justify this? What is he afraid of if such a duty is imposed? I suppose the citizens will think it's meat of a inferior species and that there will be some fear... And what do we do with the meat we have? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u61	Thank you very much. I will ask all your senators, especially the senator, to say wherever you can, that this meat is absolutely healthy and secure. I've already talked about this in answer to a few questions, I hope very... maybe not convincingly, but very unambiguously. It's true, isn't it? And that was the intention, that was the matter of the case I was talking about, with regard to specific documents, with specific procedures. There is, of course, a concern here in this statutory scheme for the entire operation to succeed. And since we recognize the charity objective of acting against ASF as an argument and a solid weapon of combat in order to reduce certain practices and de facto limit the real influences of ASF on a very important segment, all possible methods must be used that will allow the objectives of this law to be fulfilled in a strict manner. And that's one of the most important reasons. I was talking here about the price mechanism, about the fact that in this case it is mandatoryly official-market, so there is no possibility of any price travel between PLN 2 or PLN 1.50 or PLN 2.50 and PLN 5, if we accept it at the average market price, at least in relation to the state for today. But we also need to ensure reception here and too. And if necessary, our processing plants will also be, as I said earlier, standing at some distance from this problem as a final reserve. However, the security here is completely legal and logical. So that those public sector units that have the need to buy fresh pork meat, which is, say, military, police and other types of public sector units, will have no choice here, and if there is an offer from such a zone and under those rigors that the law is talking about, they will have to take advantage of this offer. This is obvious, such selective treatment not of the entire market, but of a certain segment, with a full guarantee that it is food, completely healthy meat, as I have already said, safe... And it's not that there's some sort of security here in the form of a selected receiving sector, on the contrary, because it's a very prestigious sector, it's defence, it's the military, it's the police. So here is an additional factor associated with a certain prestige, and it is a matter of extraordinary diligence, an initiative to ensure that everything goes smoothly and with the highest standards. [[Me too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u62	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u63	Just a little bit. Here is a kind of game price to buy this meat. Aren't you afraid that other players will be offering a lower price?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u64	They can't, because that's how they're gonna play against each other. This is, like I said, the average market price. If the average, then the price of this entity will also be taken into account, which will barter and set the price as if it were a barrenly low one. Right? So that it's going to immediately affect this average market price, with a disadvantage for this blackmailer, in quotes, because it's going to be a very close price to the one that this average market price... In view of this test, this price will continue to benefit this recipient from the public sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u65	Thank you. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u66	Thank you. Minister, you have just used this return on our processing facilities. If you could develop what our processing facilities mean... And about that price... We know there are market prices, there may be official prices, but the official market price... As far as normal market rules go, I don't understand. But I am referring mainly to our processing plants. What did you mean by our processing facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u67	I'm sorry, this is obviously a slip of the tongue resulting from the fact that I was hoping for the default... These are of course Polish bets, I have already said many times on this subject, the case is publicly known... It is, of course, about state betting, e.g. in the area managed by the National Agricultural Support Centre, which will play the role of such market intervention, if necessary for use, in order to succeed the operation as a whole. Excuse me, sir, there was a second question for the senator... [[I was talking about this price: either there's an official price or a market price. There's such a presumption...]] It may be a little buttery, wrapped up in me, but in this case, it means the same thing. This is the price of the bill, but it's also a 100% market price, because it's a mid-market price. So both of these terms are in one...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u68	Thank you. Minister, I have questions for you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Ask.]] I have a few questions. First of all, you listed those who would be obliged to buy pigs that are within the protection but are healthy animals. Does this include mass caterers such as hospitals, schools, kindergartens? Will they have to make such purchases, or will they be excluded? The point is that they are mostly governed by local governments, but not only, e.g. Medical institutes are not subject. Will it be an obligation to shop in this segment? That's a question that kind of refers to the previous ones and to your answers. I also have questions about statistics. If the Minister is unable to answer them now, I would ask for written answers. How many ASF protection sites are there at the moment, which is how many outbreaks of this disease? That's one thing. Secondly, how many pigs have been killed and how many of these pigs have been disposed of? How many of them didn't go to the market, but they just went to the disposal? And one last question. There's a raised problem of boars. I hear the boar population has been greatly reduced. I would like to ask you how much the wild boar population has been reduced during this period, i.e. How many wild boars have been shot. How many boars are there and how many were shot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u69	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal, the first question is very detailed and concerns the big difference between the large audience, such as the cafeteria or the cafeteria complex of some military or police unit, for example. a small kindergarten that has the right to purchase itself. I think all of this is going to be subject to some sort of common sense review. I trust it will be. It is not possible to compare on one level, also legally, which is obvious, kindergartens and examples, which I mentioned, for example. Some big garrison. It is a rule in this sense without exception that it undoubtedly protects the interests of the farmer in the production chain and, you can say, the final recipient. In this case, the final recipient is the entities designated as public sector entities. You'll allow the marshal that when it comes to statistical responses They are detailed and relate to a certain retrospective It's a very detailed answer I'm going to write in writing and send to your marshal. The same goes for wild boars. These answers are not only addressed to the government, but also directed to those places where the evaluation, and especially the drafting of opinions, is completely sovereign. After all, in this Chamber, the senators perfectly record the discrepancy in the assessment and effectiveness of the fight against wild boar population, while at the same time in full agreement and in the position that wild boars are at present the primary vector in Polish conditions. Some of the questions that have been asked here confirm not only concern, but also that fact. In the context of such a conclusion, a number of questions arise, sometimes very meticulous, supported by various specifics, regarding the condition and the ability of hunters to deal with this problem. They have different opinions about this. Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski very strongly and, I believe, successfully speaking about declarations and recent talks The aim... assumes that increased, 100 percent efforts as far as possible of the Polish hunters' environment will suffice to effectively defeat the ASF in the area of the fight against wild boar population. This is a difficult situation for various reasons. Episodeically, however, this problem, which I would say, has been touched dramatically, has been said yes. Wild pastures of corn in farmers' fields. Right? They feel great out there, and they're just getting out of that corn... Well, she's basically dead. If that corn stops being corn, they go into the woods. And that's what happens in the autumn-winter period. Such an existence of boars during this period causes them to have a completely amazing, much larger reproduction than scientific research has shown. It's up to 300%. per year. This is a very dangerous phenomenon, and this is a task for us in the context of all the actions that have been mentioned here in the previous questions of your senators and in the answers with concern. Mr. Marshal, I will deliver, in the same mode, a very detailed response, with a break into the circles, etc. So that we will give you very detailed information in different contexts about your interesting issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u70	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Thank you kindly.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted to be able to thank the Minister of Agriculture for the swift action that the government has taken. The subject is very burning and farmers expect action to be taken as soon as possible towards the launch of these mechanisms, about which the amendment of the Act on Special Solutions for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland speaks. This is a law that is very important to us. As a representative of farmers, agricultural solidarity, I will say that we have had many meetings, discussions with the Minister of Agriculture about how to help farmers so that healthy pigs do not need to be disposed of. The Minister has decided and the government has accepted that healthy pigs from the danger zones may be... So that not only the law on the control of infectious diseases, which gives the possibility of disposal... It's about keeping healthy. To healthy pigs, pigs tested, slaughtered. It also means that public finance units can take action by placing orders. Because without orders there will be no way to sell this meat anywhere at certain prices. I would like to point out that in this bill we are introducing a record that says that it is exempt from public procurement... It's a breach. So that the State can take action and take into account the average prices determined on the basis of the data held by the Minister for Agriculture. It gives us a chance that the actors... Previously, when they bought it for material reserves, they bought it at prices from public procurement. These public procurement prices are almost in line with average prices and therefore there is no significant difference in prices Whether it is bought in public procurement at market prices or at average prices. In my opinion, these are almost the same conditions, but here is the possibility, I would say, of pictures of meat from the protection regions. This is what farmers have been expecting and thanking the Minister for having taken these measures so quickly after our discussions. I hope that we will adopt this law today without amendments, it will be signed by your President and announced as soon as possible, it will come into force, because right now this disease is still happening, we still have problems. No one asked, I don't think he even talked about it, but the costs of disposal are often higher than the amount a farmer would get for this flock. So this is the answer to the savings in budget spending. Why should we dispose of healthy pigs? Why farmers who even cry because they kill a whole herd because it's an obligation to remove animals... Why should they suffer such losses? It follows that the minister's exit in this direction, in order not to dispose of these healthy pigs, only the tested, healthy pigs should be transported to the slaughterhouse, the designated slaughterhouse, which will be identified today is not stated, which will be the slaughterhouse, then the government must take action and place orders, as the law says on the ground... I stress: from an area that cannot be exported to other regions. It has to be within... Because these products can't be transported anywhere. Therefore, it is advisable not to export or carry this disease. So far, that previous recipe that was... Because why did farmers get smaller money, as it was said here, 2 zlotys or more? Because the government in previous legislation has committed itself to paying farmers compensation for lost... so, as the Minister said here, to cut off the so-called. opportunities to speculate on who sold, who made money not to pay out of the budget... and the European Commission did not agree to the funding. You don't talk about that. The European Commission has made it clear that only differences in farmers' losses can be paid. Thus, this mechanism, which was previously announced in our laws, is not possible to function. And the European Commission says that only losses can be covered. It's hard for farmers to prove some losses, so it's easier to take off on... Whether they go into reserves or public finance units order this meat... This is healthy meat, I stress. It never hurts and doesn't hurt people. I keep saying that because I'd love to eat this meat that's protected in canned food that's been taken down and converted into canned meat. Because remember, we've already voted on this here, and it was made into canned goods. And some kind of triggering such antagonism between us, that consumers are supposed to be afraid of something, and those canned things that would be the best. 'Cause there aren't even good guys in sales. Which were produced without any additives, without any other things... Something that is tasty, what we remember, old canned without preservatives, which are mostly used today, without additions of other protein, etc., etc... There's a lot of meat out there these days, but we've got canned meat. I am pleased that the government has made this decision. This is a decision expected by farmers. Farmers are glad it's running. Yesterday, even at the committee meeting, there was a question: Minister, what about those who have already bought? Well, the bill doesn't come into force until it's passed. Then she'll come into force. So the question was, what's going to happen to those bets they've already bought, if they're gonna have the opportunity... We didn't explain this question yesterday at the committee meeting, but the answer was only one: since the law came into force... Does the bill work backwards? It doesn't work backwards. It's up-to-date. So... That is why we care very much, especially for farmers who are very affected by this disaster. And the question is, who's to blame... Is the government guilty? It's not the government's fault. Because this disease is still spreading independently of us. Please note, just a week ago I was in Brussels, sitting in a meeting and it is clear that here in Belgium is disease, African swine fever. They confirmed, on the day I was there, that they had art that was already infected with African swine fever. Did the fence help there? It's not like Germany hasn't crossed over... Of course, you can say that earlier this disease was in the Czech Republic This, too, has already been mentioned here in this Chamber, and is now in neighbouring countries, because it is in Hungary, it is in Romania, which is not controlled at all... In Romania, it's a tragedy, what happens there with this disease, no one is able to control it. In Poland really the services that work... I have to thank the veterinary services from this place, which really do a lot. Although we, as farmers, have the attention to veterinarians to act here, as we sometimes call it, more humanly, they did not follow such rules that only rigor, rigor, but still to have such an approach... At least they have to demand it. But there are also comments here. Nevertheless, veterinarians are trying, helping. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister, in this difficult situation, declared that he would help veterinary inspections in terms of its financial supply. Often during our conversations it turns out that veterinarians send help from the second region of Poland to ASF zones, that there are shifted veterinarians to help farmers carry out tasks in this difficult situation. That's why so much has been done. I think they also prevent the spread of the disease, e.g. Introduction... You remember how not so long ago we changed the law, which talked about the introduction of bioinsurance throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as about compensations, so-called. compensation for withdrawal if there are less than 50 units on the holding. The idea was to give up if the farm was unable to comply with the bioinsurance rules. So many actions have already been taken. But I repeat: the disease is a disease and it cannot be prevented. You just have to try to limit its spread as much as possible. Farmers do that. And those who do not wish to do so have the opportunity to withdraw... All the actions we take, including in cooperation with hunters... Because we also have a lot of comments about hunters, although hunters try to take action wherever possible. But it turns out that the vector isn't just a boar, it could be a human being. And the example of Czechoslovakia... sorry, the Czech Republic or the Belgian example shows that the virus can be transmitted by humans. So that today it can be transferred to another region of Poland at any time. So let's not really blame the farmers, let's not blame the hunters. People also have to follow the rules, e.g. they should not enter such zones, and often enter such zones thoughtlessly, often carry diseases. I wouldn't want to use the words that sometimes fall... Because there are fears that it is sometimes some kind of malice of people, that people do and carry diseases in spite of others. I don't want to use words like that, but there might be cases where somebody can make somebody angry. It's a disease, for example. In Podkarpacie in the Lubaczów region, she did not move through wild animals... It's not clear yet, I don't know unless the Minister knows what's causing the disease to be transferred to the Podkarpacie area. But they didn't carry that disease there. There were no such cases in that area as regards the transmission of this disease. Turns out somebody moved her, somebody did it. I really thank the Ministry of Agriculture for taking so much effective action that for four years this disease has not moved as far as some have predicted. On average, this disease moved as we look at the areas where the disease first appeared, i.e. Georgia, about 300 km. And we haven't had that disease for four years. And hopefully it won't go any further on to our endangered farms. Because she doesn't harm people's health. This disease has no effect on humans. This disease has only an impact on self - control, because it is one of the most dangerous diseases for both the flock and the wild boars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u72	Thank you, Senator. Senator Joseph the Hare. Mr. Senator, but your stay and the coincidence of your stay with ASF in Belgium was completely accidental? [[Accidental.]] Because you said it like it had something to do with it. [[He brought it... he brought it.]] I'm saying it just in case. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The tests have already been confirmed.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u73	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I would like to speak on this, on the side of hunters, i.e. not taking the hunters' side, but as a hunter, a long-term hunter. The first thing is this. Well, this is not the first time we have had this kind of epidemic in Poland. In the last 40 and 50 years, as I recall, this is the second epidemic... If you can call it an epidemic. I think the Minister will correct here whether this is the proper name used. The first such illness, which was similar, occurred in the 1980's. The calls of the hunters to take action - Anything. They met with silence. And it was a hare disease. We used to have a huge rabbit head. Wherever you were going in the fields, whatever way you looked, that bunny was there. And he was something that colored our country. Hunters from other countries came to hunt. Unfortunately, no action has been taken. The hare almost disappeared. It's just getting a little reborn now. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I understand the humorous element here. But it's not as often heard when a disease comes, an epidemic. A, let the game handle itself. We'll take a look. It's a wild game. She's always been, she's always been, she's always gonna be. I think that it is not in nature that many species have lost the world over thousands of years, perhaps in a way that has not been equipped with tools to combat this type of disease. I don't think anybody even thought about fighting diseases like this one. And this disease is the second I've seen. What's so disturbing about all this? A very unprofessional approach to this disease. I asked the rapporteur's colleague here earlier whether there was a team of scientists who were called to carry out research on this disease. Actually, it's just a little bit of magic, a little bit of swearing, a little persuasion... I'm sorry, but I'm gonna be mean: and that went 300 kilometers, and that went to Brussels... But it doesn't matter at all... [[But it's a fact.]] The fact that they jumped to Brussels is a fact Of course I do. I just don't know how to interpret it. Of course I do. But in the sense of success in stopping the spread, that's not proof at all. This element is missing. After all, we have a huge number of scientists. You can set up a team, even a multiplayer, to take care of it so that we at least know if it's just wild, how this disease is transmitted, how it can affect humans. We don't know that. If you're allowed to eat the meat that was to be thrown out and burned, and now we're supposed to be packing in cans again... And from that point on, And I have to say, I really like spam. I'm gonna look in the store and see if there's a stamp that's made out of such pigs. I don't think that's the way to treat it. What is the situation with hunters? There was a meeting in the Baranów with the Minister of Agriculture not too long ago, and I must say that we were almost at war with him. I think this is about your boss. Because we heard something like that, you have to organize some groups of forest guards, somebody else, equip them with excellent weapons and put them on the task of firing all the wild boars. Well, good luck with that. As a hunter, I know this is an impossible task. The hunters have talked much earlier about reducing the population and looking at what is happening. Of course, the decisions were the other way around, there was stopping wildfires. Let's remember, a year ago, a wild boar was reduced two years ago. We were incredibly surprised, we didn't understand it, because everyone knows. And that's where we have full confirmation. That wild, as it is said in professional, hunting language, throw small 2 times a year. That's not what you used to see. This is because of the light winters, because of the large amount of food that wild boars receive. This year may be an example. Whoever goes to the woods and even to the park for a walk... Notice that there are so many acorns, which are almost basic food, such a nourishing food for boars, that no one has noticed. Hence such a rapid increase in their numbers. And if wild game exceeds a certain quantitative barrier It's hard to tell what the barrier is. This may occur, which we did not know before, because we did not observe them in the case of small populations. This is perhaps one of the reasons that wild boars are increasingly migrating, that it's said that somewhere there couldn't be crossed some area. A flock of wild boars, a pack of wild boars, can do several kilometers in one night. So that you can't rely on it. And the last words from that meeting in Baranów. We were actually there with the two of us, Mr Olszówka was still at this meeting. Well, the Minister and I have fought almost a war to take action of this kind, that some criminal companies will be sent there to shoot wild boars. Well, you can't do that, really, and there's no need. You have to take professional action. There are epidemiologists, there are other disease specialists that appear, because here is some new disease, there are people who should tell us what it is, how dangerous this disease is, for whom it is dangerous, how it develops, under what conditions. It's not there, but it's a disease whisper. Well, they're gonna get together, and I'm sorry to say, in line 2, ladies and they're gonna decide, as is the ASF. You can't do that, really. This is where professionalism is required. Next thing, the fence. Well, that's a comedy thing. I know about this situation. I wasn't present at the event. That the pack of wild boars scattered in escape passed through the metal fence. Those who saw it said it was all breaking up, like it was made out of some strings or something. It doesn't matter. Besides, a boar can dig deep, dig deep. That's why I think fences are an expression of such, I'm sorry, intelligent naivety, it seems like we're gonna build fences and everything's gonna be okay. And there are two things that we've come together here. Not so long ago, because it was probably in June, we were working on a law, a new law on hunting law. I think a lot of ideas, almost from kindergarten, that we have adopted under the influence of propaganda of those who have protected wild boars, those who, somewhere in Szczecin, where they live in parks, gardens, want to protect them... The only thing that came out of this was that it was an element that convinced us to pass such a small bill. I think it's a good thing there's been such a voice today that we really need to think about this bill. If someone doesn't believe a hunter, doesn't believe in their professional knowledge of the wildlife environment, then you can invite professionals, professionals, professors who do it, so that we can find out what it's really like, what it's supposed to be like to protect... how much it's supposed to be fired so that it all has arms and legs. Until recently, when Polish hunting was still functioning without pressure from those who did not know about it, it was all going quite well. At some point, there were those who had absolutely no idea about the breeding of the game except for the breeding of a cat or a small dog in the house. There's been a big mess here, and then we passed a bill like this. This is something that was very shocking. One of the institutions that I would point out today as the most authorized to start activities related to this disease is the Polish Hunter Union, the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union. All you have to do is let him act, there's a new board, he's got a chance to show up, they're professionals. Finally, if Mr. Marshal will allow me, I would just like to ask for another profession as a mathematician: what does it mean that boar is a vector? I'm asking because I've heard it twice, and I can't understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u74	Thank you, Senator. The Minister will be able to answer your question, but now is not the time for questions. Minister, you will be able to respond to the vote in the debate and to the legislative proposals if they are tabled. Minister, High Izbo, I cannot agree with such a fundamental message that I have heard from the Senator of Law and Justice, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, that the response of the Ministry was swift and appropriate. I don't agree with that. When you took over, there were three fires, and now, as I've heard, there are over 110, a hundred and dozen outbreaks of this disease. The previous minister, Minister Jurgel, when he was not yet a minister, did not seem to indicate that it was necessary to eliminate the population where there is a outbreak of infection. Rather, there was a trend that the authorities wanted to make the farmers angry and slaughter the pigs. And you had to act radically when there were a few or a dozen bonfires. Then you had to kill those pigs, not wait for it to change until it narrowed itself down. In the meantime, there were different ideas. And this army was supposed to shoot wild, in different ways, extra ammo, I understand, military weapons, military fighters... Okay, okay. But of course it didn't work out. Then there was a proposal to put a fence on the border, but it fell when the problem spread and there were various fires that were already heading towards the Vistula. I would understand this fence, but on the Vistula line. Then it would be possible to protect the western part of Poland, leaving the eastern fate behind, and so it would be read. But the offer of the fence at the border in a situation when there were already dozens of fires in Poland, of course, was pointless, and I will say that not so much senseless as stupid. After 3 years of government, you woke up. Compensation of PLN 2 per kilogram, etc... I was in northern Lublin, near Vladava, and there is actually a tragedy. I understand the government had to react before the election. But after all, we talked about this law in 2016 and then no one proposed such solutions, which are proposed today. Will they be effective? I am afraid that they will not be in a situation where there is actually no research, an assessment of how this disease is going, how it can be addressed, there is no scientific research. I miss this meeting of the chief veterinarian, because I would like to ask him a few questions, precise questions about how this disease is going, what it looks like to carry this disease. Because the question is whether it's being carried by a wild boar, only by a man, or also, let's assume a bird that migrates. Is it moving or not? This is a serious issue. And to the end. Except for a partial buy-in that will partially relieve... But it increases and increases anxiety about this disease of people who are in cities who are going to eat pork meat at all. The concern is that you didn't say what money the government would spend on strengthening the veterinary system, strengthening the veterinary surgeons in the field. I mean, to test... And now, according to you, they're going to be studying all the plays, and it's not going to be the same as before, that if there's a sick pig, it's going to kill the whole herd because there's no time for testing. Now all the plays are to be studied. How do you do that with this cast, this number of veterinarians? You're not offering security, and there might be a suspicion that this bill is just a paper sheet. And that's the problem that emerges from this bill. And that's it for the end. In regions infected with this disease I don't know when pigs can be raised there or back to pig farming. You should offer farmers other options. If you can't grow pigs there, maybe you can grow cattle for fattening. I don't see that kind of action. So not only do we have to give farmers compensation, but we have to give them an alternative that will give them the opportunity to maintain. That's the end of it. I ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Probably all of us spent the summer with farmers, and harvest celebrations are of course an opportunity for many conversations. Probably the state, and I talked to the farmers about ASF, too. I am from Wielkopolska, which stands out that there is a lot of pig breeding there. And everyone is looking, looking east, whether this plague, which is already very close to the borders of the region, will not enter Wielkopolska either. In fact, this fear does not come out of nowhere, but from the progression of this disease. It would seem that the Senate, when it comes to amending the law, will try to propose some measures that will limit the spread of this disease. This bill doesn't contain it. This law is intended to improve the situation of farmers who are affected by this problem. Of course, I am far from ignoring the losses they suffer, and in general this drama, because this is a drama, although it concerns animals, very human, it often concerns a long-term achievement that becomes threatened. At those prices that were, it was a tragedy. Of course, Mr. Marshal is right... It's not like in time... These actions, some of which were mocked here a moment ago, completely unhappened, were taken too late. I realize that we do not know the origin of this disease well, we do not really understand how it is transferred, hence the difficulty in determining how to fight it, and hence such radical actions were taken. What surprises me is that here, from this podium it rained, that yes, you have to knock out flocks, there is no other advice if we want this disease not to spread, and today there is some other optics in this room, now you don't need it, now you just have to examine the meat and you can direct it to consumption. I think it's best to encourage... Some people encourage us to encourage us to eat meat like this. And what I lack in all this is the assurance that we will strengthen and that we are doing something more, something more effective, but not in terms of financing aid to farmers affected by this disease, but in terms of protecting the others. And that's why I'm taking this bill with concern. It's a little reassuring that it's supposed to happen in the nearest district, that it's supposed to be processed there... That's good, because we remember here the discussion and amendment related to the fact that at the very beginning these pieces were transported to the disposal by half of Poland. But it doesn't exactly calm down. The second point, of course, is the veterinary and veterinary issue, several times raised here. There is also a lack of clear declaration by the Minister as to how long, how quickly you will try to improve this situation. That's a bigger problem. Currently, outside the agricultural sector, veterinarians are earning a lot and more, so we need to have a competitive offer for those we want to keep who are essential for food safety. Here, Minister, we need specific declarations, not general statements. You can, in relation to our statements, complete yours. Anyway, it's a big problem, and it's not moved and done on that occasion, and testing a large number of pieces in less time... The Minister says this isn't going to happen overnight, but it doesn't show numbers about how much more research, what it's going to look like, some kind of simulation in this area. So we're just a little head-to-head here... And finally, I'd like to say yes... The Minister says, "I believe that's the case." The fact that we are doing well is that others have done worse to praise us, that they are willing to reward us for doing so. So? And that's why we're loosening up this system? And that's why we're changing it? It's completely illogical.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I am acting because I would like to draw attention to the wider problem, namely that this law and this legal material concern a very simple issue. Finally, a farmer from vulnerable areas will be able to sell pigs at market prices from restricted areas. That's the whole point. If one of these speakers says that it is meat infected, that it is sick, that the meat is practically sick, it is incredibly malignant. This is either ignorance, or exceptional malice, or deliberate action against farmers. I am protesting such behaviour and I am asking the ministers, and I am appealing for an information effort. In my opinion, there's not enough information, Mr. Ministers, about ASF biology, African swine fever. I'm asking you to, and I think you're listening to the speeches and the questions that were coming... And from these questions that have been raised here, it is clear that even parliamentarians are not aware of what African swine fever is and what it looks like. The biology of ASF is known, is described. We all know how it infects, how it behaves, how it spreads, and we know that the virus lives 21 days in the environment. After 21 days, he dies. If there is no danger in a given area, it is practically necessary to consider the area as clean and free from this virus. He can live longer in the bone marrow because he's alive for up to six months. That's the information I got from the veterinarians. If we followed the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber this year, on January 8, this year, then, I think, there would be a chance that this virus would slowly get out of Poland. And that's what happens because these threats don't develop, we don't have any more threats. We've reached a level of 112 bonfires, and it's like it's stopped. That's why we're happy to hear external signals as well. 'Cause in the country you can't always hear it and get that information That we are trying to fight the disease effectively. Of course, because of this situation, there are various kinds of arguments, that e.g. You have to block the border that you have to knock out all the wild boars because it's the wild boar that's practically carrying the disease. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not alone in Poland. If our neighbours, Ukraine, Belarus, the Czech Republic, Romania, had taken the same radical action we would have taken, we probably wouldn't have had this disease. In Spain, today it's proven, 50 years ago, the virus flew in from Africa. Yeah, it happened. The Spanish have fought this disease for decades and have successfully cleansed the country from it. I am convinced that when the public awareness of parliamentarians increases, people who live in these areas at risk, but also the average Pole... Such information should appear on television, in the media, in schools there should be instructional lessons on which to speak about biology, the dangers that this disease carries and how it practically moves. Then there would be a chance that we could fight this disease effectively. But adding a sensational element, creating a sense of danger, different emotions, scaring for nothing will be of no use. I remember that four years ago, there were actions followed by the previous government to fight this disease. I remember the shock, I remember the emotions that accompanied these activities at the meeting of the Senate's agricultural committee; I had the opportunity to participate. They didn't know what to do with this situation. 160,000 pigs were planned to be disposed of, another 120,000 were waiting, growing, and they didn't know what to do with it. Wanted to dispose of 160,000 pieces Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We're talking about one thing today, when emotions go down, we're talking about one thing. The fact that these pieces should be developed is because they are not ASF-infected art. They're not sick arts, they're healthy arts, they're grown in an area where the ASF virus occurred. These are completely different things. And when we read in the newspapers that we feed soldiers canned pigs infected with ASF, nothing more dramatic can be done. It's scaring the nation, scaring people, causing social unrest. And that is why I am asking the honourable states here to take a little restraint so that we can remain moderate and take measures that will actually serve the Polish economy and the Polish farmer. Otherwise, we will create chaos, confusion, instead of leading, regardless of the political option, a solution to the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u78	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. For the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here's what I'm gonna say. I wasn't going to speak anymore, but I want to tell Senator Hare here one more time that many of us farmers have been involved in a lot of discussions because it affects us, it affects farmers the most. I've held conferences, meetings many times. Recently, when the yellow zone appeared in my Zamość region, I downloaded the main veterinarian, I also downloaded representatives of the veterinary institute in Puławy. And these people as professionals, the best professionals, you can say, because this is about our institute in Puławy, which deals with this and has security... It has the guarantee of the European Union as an institute, which is one of the best institutes in Europe, has the authority to carry out research, and many professionals at this institute deal with this disease. I would like to point out that the Puławy Institute is working on a vaccine. The Americans have been working on this for several years, and they can't do it. In some activities, they are already at such a stage that they are close, as they claim, to be able to develop a vaccine to control this virus. But it's been going on for a few years now, and nobody's done it yet. Therefore, if we could create a vaccine, we would have the possibility of vaccination against this virus. That's not the way the world's gonna be. And from here, Mr. Senator, I understand it's not that... Maybe you weren't aware of it, maybe you weren't involved, but we farmers repeatedly and in the ministry, and at the Puławy Institute... Wherever possible, we do training with farmers, especially in an area where there is a threat ASF, in the yellow zones or in their area, to prepare farmers for bioinsurance, because there is no longer any other way to prepare for it. I wouldn't want to see a situation like this happen in Spain. In Spain the disease has been eradicated in almost 30 years, but there are no small farms, there are only big farms. We have traditional farms and we want to protect them. The point is not to eliminate those small farms that traditionally grow. That's where the best meat was grown, not in as huge farms as they are in Spain. And that's where our work is going to get farmers ready. Please believe that we farmers want us to be able to raise the flock and fight this disease. And we should all be helping each other, as Senator Pup said, over the divisions. Let's not split up in fighting something, because that's what we're all committed to. There's no division in the field. by whether the farmer is from PSL, whether he is from PiS, or from the Platform, or from any other organisation. They all want to function together, live and grow what has been best for us for centuries, or the flock. I therefore also appeal: let us not divide about all the things that do not have to be done, because this disease is not a political matter. This disease is a disease that we all have to fight. And that's what I'm calling for from here. It is difficult to refer to all statements, but to you, Senator Zając, I will say this: really even in our voivodship, in the Lublin voivodship, there is a special team at the voivodship to fight this disease, there is a vice-voivode and there are many people involved, there are doctors and others... So it's not like nobody's working on it. We're all working on it, and let's keep working so that we farmers can continue farming. And all the comments that our farmers are making, who are protesting... just one thing I'll remind you of: this video that went online four years ago, where a woman with a hoe was defending a pig, she wouldn't let her be killed. That video was all over the place. And it was just a horror. I can't imagine what those scenes were like back then. Hence the actions we, as farmers, bring to the Ministry of Agriculture every step of the way, and the efforts to take into account the comments we make as farmers. It's going forward and I hope it goes on like this. And the disease is and you have to fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The problem is indeed. I used to address the Minister of Agriculture with a statement, with a senator's interpellation, about ASF fires also in Mazowsze Because I'm a senator from the district, from the Ciechanian subregion. And I would like to say that, of course, every one of us here in this House has in its constituency... Well, apart from colleagues who represent large urban agglomerations, where farms are virtually gone. But the vast majority of senators, almost all of us, have farmers in their territory, including pig producers. And because of that, we cannot be indifferent to this problem that is raised on our shifts during meetings. Here during the discussion it was stated that since the end of August... Yes, since the end of August we have been riding, we are present at harvest festivals, at harvest festivals, at various events important to the agricultural community. I'd like to point out one thing. There is an example in the classics of economics. Well, in the 16th century. Spain had the largest fleet and reigned on the seas, then the English kingdom, then Britain, proclaimed that protectionism had to be practiced, i.e. to protect its own market from the influx of cheap grain from Europe. But when in the 17th century. England began to reign on the seas, then she said: we are too free market, i.e. No customs barriers, let's trade, let the free market decide these matters. And this is, High Izbo, the classic economy, it fits every industry, every situation, including modern international policy. Here I would like to point out that the ASF problem is... Because Senator Chróścikowski said, "Don't be a politician." Internally, in the country Yeah, absolutely. But it must also be pointed out that this is also an element of political and economic competition within the European Union. It is not a coincidence that none of the three largest pig producers in Europe At least one of them is close to our borders, even directly bordering us... [[Belgium already does.]] Excuse me? [[Belgium already does.]] But Belgium is not in these three, Senator. As far as the largest producers in Europe are concerned, as far as I know, they are Germany, Denmark and Spain. And these three countries I meant by that sentence. Belgium too... I don't question the Belgian potential. I was talking about three of the biggest producers. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this phenomenon does not occur there. We live in such interesting times. I believe that all parliamentarians should act together in this matter and protect the interests of our agriculture, our producers, because for farms or actually agricultural enterprises, when it is more production, the emergence of such a threat is in a sense a judgment, at least economic, because it will have certain effects for many years. That is why I would urge in this House that we do not attempt to use this situation to achieve some political impact, but to support the government in the international arena. I think mainly of the Ministry of Agriculture here, but also of the entire government. The aim is to put the matter properly on the EU agenda. We are in the Union, we are so to say, in the common agricultural policy, we are subject to certain regulations, but we must always remember that this is not a noble association of philanthropists who are wondering who else to help. It is also a tough economic business game. And it is the interest of producers from other countries to have as many ASF outbreaks as possible in Poland. This is for a very simple reason: they then have greater benefits from their production. I would like us not to forget these fundamental principles of economics in our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u82	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! Just one sentence. You drove faster than the beasts of Belarus. The kind of suggestions made by a serious senator who seems to tell us that some hostile forces have given us ASF to weaken our competitiveness are really... How do you think that's the easiest way to say it? [[It's real.]] [[Not really...]] Untested. I want to tell you that this disease is wandering. In the countries you were talking about, if I remember correctly from the literature, she's been there before. And then somebody probably went out there and as convincingly and wisely as the senator said that it was all done by Poland to destroy other people's agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u84	Senator Jackowski for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u85	I wasn't going to speak again, but I was called by Senator Augustine, who put something in my mouth that I absolutely didn't say. You think I'm the one who said on the stand that the ASF was behind... [[You're suggesting. You're suggesting.]] Excuse me, but I'm at the voice. ...that other Member States of the European Union are behind the ASF. I'm saying I didn't say that. But the senator's rapid response to my speech has shown a great deal to the High House and our recipients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u86	Thank you. I'm in five minutes. Mr. Senator, Dear Speaker, this senator was not the only one who felt that way. I also got the impression that you were suggesting some kind of conspiracy. [[That says a lot about you, Senator.]] And yet you join this conspiracy of Senator Augustine. That's what you're suggesting. There is, of course, also the opposition and the European Union. So this is how you traditionally go, calling for this problem not to create some kind of political conflict. And that's what I agree with. In fact, I read earlier that there was a Belarusian-Russian conspiracy, that wild boars were imported or thrown off a plane, that some sick boar was hanging on a tree, although I know... That reminds me a little bit of a barbecue situation. You don't want to go in that direction. I know what poachers and sometimes hunters do. Poachers often hang a slaughtered wild boar in a tree. So whether or not he was hanging or hanging... It's not proof that alien forces from the East threw him off a plane. Today this is a serious problem, but once again, apart from compensation, you have to have some idea of what to offer farmers. I believe that the virus lives 21 days, and in the bones longer, etc. Farmers who have lost their flocks will be afraid to return to such a farm, they will fear that the situation could happen again. This concerns mostly Lublin, areas east of the Vistula River, although some fire supposedly appeared in Warmińsko-Mazurskie. It's just dangerous. I didn't ask what the development of these bonfires looked like, if there's a limitation or a drop or a stabilization. I understand... I, too, believe that these farmers must be rescued. There's nothing to scare everyone else with this disease. I take it that the meat of infected animals is after processing fit for consumption, that it can be in cans, etc. We also discussed this in the course of the work on the previous law in 2013. Instead of making declarations, Senator Chróścikowski, you are the chairman of the agricultural committee. You have to take some more significant steps. You can make a tasting in the Senate. I'm surprised the Ministry doesn't do that kind of promotion. He says meat is good, good, good. If that's the case, let him do a tasting at the ministry. Then all the officials will be able to confirm that it's good. Mr. Senator, I have a suggestion. It's just a suggestion to you as chairman of the committee. Of course, don't tie me to that suggestion as much as you can. The sign doesn't have to go in the direction it points. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! I understand that maybe it's not enough. I talked about it because there's a limited amount of time. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is constantly making a campaign of Poland tastes and promotes pork everywhere. We have the so-called. promotion funds. My colleagues and I are organizing two pig support actions showing how pork... I don't want to talk about the details anymore, but we do this kind of promotion. A lot of organizations do it because there's funding for it. It's called. the pig promotion fund. We're trying to show an alternative. The Ministry, of course, launched restructuring agencies for farmers affected by ASF. They can benefit from programmes and take financial resources, loans. Investment in activities other than pig farming shall be supported. In addition, the rapporteur spoke of moving to cattle farming. Such activities are also carried out. Believe me, Marshal, we're really trying as farmers to watch this very hard. And sometimes we resent them, sometimes our comments are taken into account. It's not like we don't do that. Our committee also raises these issues many times and we do so. Even at the last away meeting of our committee, which was in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, we also paid attention to this issue. So that we deal with this case as much as possible as we can... And we encourage others to tell them how they have a concept, what else to do. Because we're looking forward to different proposals. We farmers report... And we're also looking for volunteers. Only the whole world is struggling with it, Mr. Marshal. She can't solve this problem yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u88	Thank you, Senator. It's just that I've been proposing to do this tasting of meat from this bill and show you that you shouldn't be afraid. There's no more votes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the third item on the agenda: the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 944, and the examination of the committee I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Act on Farmers' Cooperatives adopted by the Sejm on 13 September 2018. This is a law expected by farmers. I'd like to remind you that she's been in the Seym for almost a year. Therefore, all the comments, proposals were submitted there, and it was discussed that such a law should be adopted on agricultural cooperatives. And it was done on September 13th. As for the discussion that was with us at the committee meeting, it was quite large. Mr. Minister representing us here today, in the courtroom, Tadeusz Romanczuk, who is also a senator... It is quite clear here that we have discussed all these problems and we point out that the creation of such a new possibility, within which farmers will be able to set up agricultural cooperatives consisting of farmers or also agricultural legal entities that will serve... This will give the chance that they will create such, so to speak, small cooperatives or associations of small cooperatives, which will consist exclusively of farmers. And it's designed to reduce that kind of support... Like a farmer, he doesn't pay. for the barn, for the collection of real estate tax, as well as farmers associated in cooperatives who will buy their products, store, process their products on a given holding are exempt from property tax. And as a result of that, tax relief... So that, I think, is such an incentive to create cooperatives. We believe that farmers should be given added value, i.e. from processed products. They shouldn't just be producers, farmers who just put away the raw material, not sell the product. In this respect, we encourage farmers who are making up producer groups today... Because they're making these production groups. The law here allows to define that a producer group may take the form of either a cooperative or a company, a public limited company or an association. However, the idea is to encourage farmers to form groups of such cooperative nature. What would they be able to use? With these reliefs, among other things. This is one of those directions we're pointing at. As I stress, the work in the Sejm lasted almost a year. They were concluded by such a law, to which we, after leaning over it with the Legislative Office, made amendments. These are three legislative amendments and one amendment that I tabled yesterday. It concerns the extension of activities, includes services to farmers in which machinery, tools or equipment used to produce agricultural products or groups of these products or fish will be used. So that in the case of farmers who have ponds and want to grow fish, it is also possible to create a cooperative. I think it's expected by farmers. We will encourage farmers to try this legal formula. If they benefit, they will have a chance to increase the value added of processing. We've got so many problems today. even with fruits that the industry was unable to absorb. Maybe in the form of cooperatives it will be more implemented... the producer groups that are, could be involved. I think this is also an incentive for farmers to create new producer groups. The amendment made by the committee is in total 6. They're... The most important thing is this. That's what we were talking about yesterday. In order not to harm the local authorities because we want to introduce such a law during the year. So that we propose that in the article. 26 after the word "announced" add the words "with the exception of Article." 21, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. The point is that local governments should not be surprised that relief is applied during the year. Hence our committee's proposal. That's it. The minister, our senator, will add more details, if necessary, because he was working on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u90	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator Kilian. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, my question is: what will this law change in the current legal order? After all, there is a law on agricultural production cooperatives, which allows many solutions from this law except one In this law, the founders of such agricultural cooperatives are exempt from the land tax. In addition, this law contains practically everything in the Act on Agricultural Cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u92	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u93	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, as we spoke at the committee meeting yesterday. Mr. Minister has justified this. This law gives one basic thing: the form of small and medium-sized enterprises determines... These cooperatives, which will be set up, will be small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a certain level of employment, there is a certain volume of turnover, etc. It's the kind of cooperative that's built. These large cooperatives today are treated like all other companies. So here we're giving the small farmers who aren't organized a chance to organize themselves. They will process their products and increase this added value. They have these layoffs because they're small cooperatives. In other cases, on the basis of general cooperative law, there is no such right. And that's the breach in this bill. Maybe in some perspective, when the next steps are taken and these cooperatives are set up, we'll change the next... Well, it's possible. I'm watching... Copa-Cogeca has organized cooperative unions. There, most European organisations are collaborating and working on the facilities that cooperatives are supposed to support. That's what farmers and co-workers are involved in. Hence the very strong emphasis in Europe on maintaining cooperatives. The idea is for cooperatives to sell so that there is as much direct selling as possible. Now all these commercial networks are making the most money, and the farmer has very little to do with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u94	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions... [[Senator's voice: Mr. Senator yet.]] Oh, Senator Augustine's still here. I'm so sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u95	I have three questions. Mr Senator, I would ask you to determine the relationship between producer groups and cooperatives established under this law. That's the first one. Two. Does the Act provide for compensation to local authorities for the loss of agricultural tax? We're slowing down, we have a right, but I want to know if we're compensating for these losses to local governments. And a third. Where did the number 10 come from as the smallest number of members? I'm trying to look for an analogy, in associations it's like. 7. Why are there 10 cooperatives? Where did this come from? I'd be very interested to know why.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u96	As to how the producer group differs from the cooperative, I will say as I said before. The producer group may have different legal forms: it could be a cooperative, it could be a company, it could be a public limited company, it could be an association. The producer group chooses the formula they want. We are talking about the support of farmers' cooperatives. She can no longer function on different terms, only in such a way and the same cooperative can enter into registration... Here the details should be asked by the Minister, how it will be with the existing ones, because this is what we did not explain to ourselves at the committee meeting, although I asked the Minister for such an explanation in writing so that we had clear, clear rules as to how farmers should proceed. I think the Ministry of Agriculture after the bill was passed, when it was signed... I hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible and also signed, because our amendments still have to go to the Sejm and the Sejm to accept or reject them, but I think that the will will will be to accept these amendments, because I believe that they are justified. Your second question was the tax exemption. Well, tax exemption... It's not in this compensation bill, I didn't read it, it's not in it. We say that these are micro-enterprises, we're talking about the fact that we as farmers have on our surface, for example. large barns that we can use to store or rewrite them or build additional objects. Self-governments, seeing farmers' incomes grow... they don't lose on it. As a result, I think that many might be interested in supporting this cooperative rather than looking for an additional source. Of course, large companies, e.g. cooperatives with higher turnover will be required to pay taxes, and the current principles of cooperative law will apply here. Especially since this law is also based on cooperative law, there are many provisions referring to cooperative law. That's it, I think, that's it. And the third question is, why 10 rather than... Here's what I'm gonna say: I think that's how it was chosen in the middle. As we remember, there are about 15 members included in the Cooperatives Act, if I'm not mistaken, there are 5 in the producer group, so the intermediate model was chosen, 10, so that at least 10 could be organized. Why 10? I can also say that it should be a group after all. There have been recent allegations by the European Commission regarding producer groups, these were very serious allegations and Poland has sanctions for this. Well, groups of five were formed in the circle of their own family and often conned... The Commission pointed out that this was such a stretch of money from the European Union. One family, five members of the family wanted to use the money, and in total they split their farm into five. I think this recipe, which speaks of 10 members, proposes an intermediate model, which states that there is no more... Well, it's hard to divide your farm into 10, it's rare that there's one that can be divided like this. We want them to be farmers, not family sharing and creating a situation that allows money to be used. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u97	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk, Secretary of State and our colleague. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I'm just here to clarify the answer to the senator's question as far as 5 or 10 members are concerned. The proposal in the law at the very beginning was precisely that it would be 5 members, but at the request of all kinds of agricultural organisations that were interested in this law, this was changed. We have taken this proposal into account and the number 10 has been entered. As far as taxes are concerned In this regard, the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that this amendment is accepted as much as possible. And whether there's compensation, I'm going to say there's no compensation in this bill, and that's because these cooperatives just don't exist. Therefore, we hope that these micro-enterprises will be created in the form of farmers' cooperatives. Only after registration and start-up will they be able to pay the tax, but beyond the sales revenue limit of EUR 2 million. Because these are micro-enterprises and micro-enterprises are exempt, and this is in line with the European Union law and decree That's what I'd say, because it was agreed. So micro-enterprises with revenues of up to EUR 2 million are released and, when sales revenues of up to EUR 2 million are exceeded, they become normal businesses. And God forbid. I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u99	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator... [[I repeat...]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but... [[Let me rephrase the question...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, you've been signed up before... [[But you looked at me, so I realized...]] I'm always happy to do it, and that's why I forgot that the senator was first. There's a mess going on here. I'm sorry. I'll be right with you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, before the holiday I met with farmers associated with production cooperatives and they raised the matter of paying the ZUS contribution instead of the KRUS. Farmers in these cooperatives are typically engaged in agricultural production, and representatives of many liberal professions, taxi drivers, hairdressers, who own an agricultural holding over a hectare, register as farmers and pay a KRUS contribution. Is the government planning to take action in the near future that will lead to the situation that farmers in cooperatives will not pay the ZUS contribution but start paying the KRUS contribution? Thank you. [[Please.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: This is probably not related to this law. But once again, are the farmers of the society...]] Are the farmers associated with... [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Above... Farmers registered...]] They're paying the KRUS... No, the ZUS contribution... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Hektar...]] ...ZUS... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Hektar farmers, right?]] Farmers pay a KRUS contribution. But, as I say, the representatives of many liberal professions with over a hectare of conversion register as farmers and pay the KRUS contribution, not pay the contribution resulting from economic activity. Farmers in agricultural cooperatives have such a point that they carry out a typical agricultural activity, i.e. as if they should pay a contribution from KRUS rather than the CSO for the profession itself. The contribution of ZUS in these cooperatives is a heavy burden for such cooperatives. Does the government intend to take action to ensure that farmers in agricultural production cooperatives pay a KRUS contribution rather than a ZUS contribution due to their typical agricultural activity? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Is it OK?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! For 20 years I managed a dairy cooperative in Podlasie and there farmers or co-owners pay a KRUS contribution. E.g. I, as president, of course paid the ZUS contribution, and all the employees who did their work as employees of this cooperative were charged the ZUS contribution. Therefore, there will also be a situation here, that probably the management of this cooperative, which will be set up, one- or two-person, unfortunately will already be in the ZUS, because it will be an enterprise, but the farmers themselves as co-operatives absolutely do not concern the ZUS contribution, because it cannot concern it. They run the farms and are co-owners of the cooperative, and so are the micro. [[But if they work, they pay a ZUS contribution, they don't pay a contribution...]] Well, when they work, when they work. There may be co-operatives, in line with this amendment, who will provide services to co-operatives. If it is an undertaking, then naturally they must already be subject to the ZUS contribution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u103	You have a voice, Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u104	Yes, I'd like to ask you two questions. Firstly, what about agricultural cooperatives that are already in operation? Can they turn into this new being? The second point is, of course, the relationship between producer groups and those cooperatives. Or, for example, producer groups, in this case, when enlarged, can they turn into cooperatives? What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course... Let me put it this way: when it comes to a large cooperative that already exists Well, maybe I'll still appeal to the cooperative where I was supposed to work. I absolutely don't believe that she's going to change. That a cooperative that has more than a thousand shareholders, shareholders, will somehow turn into a micro enterprise. And the law of this He won't allow it. Nor does the Act allow the transformation of the producer groups you asked about. The cooperative is to be established, to be established by farmers, only farmers, at least 10 who, of course, pass the statute at the meeting, are accepted, register, choose the board, the supervisory board and a cooperative is established, so-called. micro-enterprises. That's what it's all about. This law does not oblige as much as it permits the creation of such micro-enterprises in our economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u107	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Augustine has signed up for the discussion. There you go, Mr. Senator. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! As a resident of the castle of Staszica, the founder of the first cooperative, I am... [[...in Warsaw.]] ...protector Yeah, it's an agricultural cooperative movement. And I very much regret that in Poland cooperatives do not have the position they have in many countries of the European Union, especially in the west of Europe. We talked about this at the economic committee meeting, there was a special conference in this area, promises were made, also those concerning facilitations for agricultural cooperatives. Mr. Senator was at that conference at the time. I understand that this is part of the implementation of this commitment, which I have heard about many times later. And I'd be happy to do it, only that The first remark is that these reliefs and incentives concern only newly formed cooperatives and not all. And yet, you remember, the representatives of the already existing cooperatives pointed to a number of barriers that were being removed so that agricultural cooperatives could grow and even flourish. Unfortunately, that's not in this bill, that doesn't apply to them. This is a very serious flaw. We already had this diversification that there were producer groups that were in a better position than cooperatives. Now we have three types of entities: producer groups, old cooperatives, big ones, let's call it... Not all of them are big, Minister. They're not all big. Well, not as much as you said so many thousands... It's a distant, distant past. There's no such cooperative anymore. [[Milking.]] Well, maybe dairy, right, Mr. Chairman. But the others aren't. And that's why it's disappointing that you're proposing a law that doesn't apply to those issues that have been raised. And the situation of the cooperative, at least in the housing cooperative segment, has deteriorated significantly rather than improving. We know that even a proposal to the Constitutional Court is being prepared to challenge some of these provisions, which the Ministry opposed and which here, in this House, have been pushed through and complicate the lives of cooperatives. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Act on Cooperatives in general, the need for a uniform Act on Agricultural Cooperatives, which would encourage these cooperatives to be established. I know this was discussed at the committee meeting, and our colleague at the club told us about it. In fact, it is a kind of mishmash, it largely contains provisions already in the cooperative law, and it is really an added value that is a tax exemption. The rest is a copy of what happened. This is the first case. The second point, however, is the question of a good idea regarding tax exemption. We've been looking, we're looking for some incentive to start a cooperative. I do not want to repeat what happened at the conference, but indeed... here many times Mr President raised it. And you're very right. Everyone who watches agriculture knows that farmers have the right to feel robbed on the market. Well, that's what we'll call it. But this is often the result of the difficulty of cooperation between farmers. And this is related to these horrible experiences of past time, the compulsion to start a cooperative, etc. It's a pregnancy. I am not talking about that, in general, as Poles, we have more problems with cooperation than others. And now this issue of tax relief would act as an incentive. But I think we need it very much, especially in those municipalities where agriculture is scattered, good cooperation and encouragement from the local government for those new beings that we would like to create. But I'm afraid this bill, as it doesn't introduce a compensation mechanism for local governments, will not push them into it. Well, they're not really gonna be interested in creating these cooperatives because they're just gonna lose their income. So I think this is a serious flaw in this bill. That wouldn't be a lot of money. But since local governments are compensating for the loss of income in the case of employment of disabled people, ladies and gentlemen, and the money has to be paid back, why isn't it done in such a completely microscale when it comes to large money, and here it is much smaller? And finally, it's like this. We have a situation where a producer group can set up 5 farmers and a cooperative only 10. And I'm one of the supporters of uniform solutions. If there's anything that can be harmonised, then let's do it. Minister, Mr President, let us really sit down 10 farmers and ask them to cooperate. It's gonna be more than twice as much trouble as when we plant them 5. Given this argument, how difficult it is to agree, how difficult it is to persuade farmers to cooperate, I think we should start with smaller cooperatives. Let them be a good example. Perhaps later it is worth thinking about this solution. I do not ignore the comments that have been made here when talking about LAGs, but that reducing this number is not a good instrument to combat pathology. If there have been cases that somebody shared the farm, etc., let's say that the farm cannot be created as a result of a division, or let's apply another mechanism, but let's not pour out the baby with a bath, because perhaps we can create a law that will not work, and that's not what this is about. I would very much like this law to work in spite of these shortcomings, so that cooperatives in the countryside are reborn, because I dare say that it is more necessary there than anywhere else, so that it is not so that the farmer for the product that we buy for 5 zlotys gets a zloty only because farmers cannot easily concentrate in producer groups or cooperatives and not only produce cheaper ones, but first of all combine to start their own processing. Therefore, with mixed feelings, as you can see, I accept this bill. I'm proposing an amendment to reduce this number to five, and I'm counting on it to support it. I'd like to believe that what's good about this bill is gonna work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u109	Thank you, Senator. Voice You have Senator Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I did not want to speak in the debate on this law, which I will support in the vote in the version in which it was presented to us, but I asked for a vote because of the words that had just been said in the debate. I must say that I hope that the senator did not mean what he said because he said that we Poles are not good at cooperation. I have to say, these words just need a reaction. We Poles are very good at working together, especially... [[We're having difficulty working together...]] It sounded like others were better than us in this area. And it just hurts me. That's not the kind of word that should come out of that speaker, from that bleacher. It really hurts. We Poles are now celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining Poland's independence, in the context of which it is often recalled the ability to cooperate with people from very different political camps. On this occasion we remember various historical events. We mention the Polish Underground State, which in the years of the Nazi occupation, German was an example of cooperation, we also mention the times of the "Solidarity," which was already by name, but also through actions was an example of good cooperation. I think examples could be multiplied because there are many others. Today we are talking about agricultural cooperatives, and that is, you can say, an example of how people can work together. Let's watch our mouths. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u111	Thank you. You have the voice of Senator Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've already said a lot today. I, too, spoke by presenting a report to the committee on the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. This is a new law. It is mainly based on cooperative law, as has been said, and it is such a small breach, as I said earlier. I think it's supposed to encourage farmers to work together. My previous speakers talked earlier about the fact that the actions of the post-1945 period caused me to say that the collapse of true cooperativeism Forced actions, setting up production cooperatives in the age of taking the land to farmers in these cooperatives, then disposing of... Well, these are very bad examples. Our farmers resisted the setting-up of cooperatives and collectiveisation, which they were trying to bring into force in this way. Only Polish farmers in the whole Eastern block defended private property. And I would like to point out that the prewar period was a very difficult time. That, you might say, our fathers, our grandparents founded cooperatives before the war. I can tell you about my cooperative, near Zamość. A cooperative of farmers was established in Błoni near Zamość. They were always told at home that... they felt patriotic. They felt patriotic because they had their own cooperative. And they sold products at a lower price to their cooperative to have this cooperative. At home I was told that as Grandpa carried wheat to Zamość, there were always such representatives who bought grain into the mill. I don't want to name names because that's not the point, I don't want to offend anyone. But Grandpa always said, "I'm not gonna sell you that wheat for more money, I'd rather drive her to my cooperative because I feel like I'm part of the cooperative, and we're gonna sell it together. I don't want your gold for one quintal of wheat. Before the war, the gold meant a lot, so much was often paid for a day's work for an employed worker or helper. It shows how people respected their cooperatives. I think we need the so-called ones here, too. The patriotism of farmers who will feel an obligation to cooperate together so that the effects they will have are greater. It can be said that the current Act on Cooperatives solves the problem. Well, it doesn't solve the problem. There must always be a bonus that encourages us to do something, giving us greater benefits than the benefits I have, you can say, using general legal matter and using the company. Many of my colleagues, starting producer groups, started companies. Why? Because it's hard to get along with farmers together. And that's the truth. They do not want cooperatives, they prefer the company, because they do not see any other benefits, and the management of such a producer group in the form of a company is easier capital. Thus, the mechanism which we are giving an opportunity to act today encourages them to cooperative. Let me give you an example. I have two shares in a cooperative bank. When I wanted to take a loan from a cooperative bank, it was said: sir, it used to be a member loan and it was possible to take credit on preferential terms, but now cooperative law says yes, and the second law, bank law, says that it is forbidden for a cooperative bank to compete and sell preferential loans to its members. So we eliminated what we used to have in tradition, which means in a cooperative bank. I could have taken a membership loan cheaper than normal. And not right now, because the law won't allow it. So we are doing something in our law, in Poland, and in the European Union is imposing on us, I mean, we are to be all competitive. You don't allow certain breaches to function here. I think it's one of the breaches. By adopting the Farmers' Cooperatives Act today, we show that we can give certain priorities to farmers who want to join in and sell together. Apart from the fact that they will have added value, there is still some incentive for action. I'd go even further, I'd change a lot of things in these cooperatives, but the government thought that that's what was possible today. I hope that if these cooperatives are created, there will be further opportunities, because in the European Union cooperatives have privileges. The law, even our law is not fully pursued, but often the legislator, and previously the government does not want to consent, because there are pressures that equality should be, that protectionism cannot be applied. Well, those actions that are being taken make life difficult. But I would encourage our farmers to try to think patriotically today. Because, as my grandfather said, patriotism brought them together in creating a cooperative against this competition that destroyed them, because before the war there was competition. Therefore, it was done to have its own property to process. Hence my appeal. If farmers wish to exercise this right, they will benefit, if not, it will be a dead law, but we are giving them this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. Senator Pup's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a bill that will give farmers a chance to organize themselves. This is another government idea to help farmers organize themselves to help farmers solve their problems. Looking at agriculture globally, we also need to look at them regionally, because other is agriculture in Podkarpacie, others in Wielkopolska, others in Małopolska, others in Lublin, and others in Zachodniopomorskie. That is why this global view, but also the regional government must bear in mind. The setting up of agricultural cooperatives will certainly allow many farmers to benefit from the benefits of this law, will help them to minimise costs, and will allow them to cooperate in agricultural production and agricultural products. However, I look at this from the point of view of this part of Poland, which has fragmented agriculture, where the average area of farms is 4 ha, 4.5 ha, sometimes it can reach 5 ha. It's in Podkarpacie, it's undercarpathian farming. At the moment this situation, the structure of farms is changing, because many lease land, giving it to farmers who live in agriculture. As a result, the agronomic structure improves slightly in favour of larger farms. However, we have also adopted the law, the provisions of the law, there are announcements and the so-called development of the so-called. direct sales, i.e. small farmers, are to be able to sell their products from their holding. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that further initiatives should be taken. There are, among others. Act on producer groups. If we were to bring about such a situation that small farmers would be able to organize themselves into smaller producer groups, that it would not be, as it is today, so that we would have to have 300 000 capital to set up such a group and that this group could function if we allowed small farmers to organize themselves into smaller groups so that they could work together in terms of selling directly to individual customers, it would give us a chance to stimulate, you can say, the economy in the countryside, but also the interest of small farmers of this type of direct sales will be revived. It should also be noted that the farmer has often been left to himself. The farmer had to know about production, on modern technologies, he had to know also about marketing, for disposal. All this caused the farmer to be stuck in, you can say, big chaos, chaos of disinformation, economic or economic chaos, because he had to and deal with production, be an employee, and also be the person who would find a market for his products. And I'm watching in my country the kind of behavior that forces life. Namely, it is a farmer who manages, but is also involved in buying grain, rape or other plants. Okay, and very good. It's from small farmers. I think this kind of initiative is coming up in the countryside, so you can... which means someone's organizing too much on a smaller scale... Back in the day, the GS were on it. The farmer drove the grain to the GS Or cooperatives, let's say, beekeepers, but these entities, you could say, disappeared from the public space and today they are gone at all. It seems to me that such entities should be stimulated, and they should be created in order to revive agricultural activity. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is good that the government sees the need for change, the need for action to stimulate the social activity of farmers. Only by stimulating and creating conditions for functioning can agriculture be developed, can we develop this branch of the national economy, which we all lean on with such care. I think it's pretty neglected. And all we have to do is let farmers take the initiative, not block them, just give them a chance and create the conditions for development, and farmers, with the help of officials, will be able to do just fine. Let me remind you that in the countryside there are various kinds of organisations that farmers should be assisted by, there are agricultural advisory centres, there is now a KOWR, which was created by the merger of 2 agencies, there is an agricultural modernisation agency, there are agricultural chambers... We could also mention other institutions and organisations that should somehow stimulate the development of agriculture. I think it is also appropriate to set up official thinking to oblige an official to help a farmer solve his problems, not to disturb him, which also sometimes happens. Because it happens that officials are bothering the farmer, and this is about helping him solve his problems. And then, I think, we won't have to worry about success. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u115	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! I thought that it was absolutely common knowledge about what the level of trust and cooperation in Poland is according to statistical surveys, and what it is like in the various countries of the European Union. And there's a big gap here. Of course, there are beautiful examples of cooperation, and when it succeeds, we have wonderful achievements. It is therefore worth promoting, and it needs to be promoted. We have these 2 indicators, confidence and cooperation indicators, we have low, for very many reasons. In relation to the best it looks as if the pyramid was reversed. I don't know if you know that in Denmark, the confidence rate is at 83%. , and in Poland at the same level there is an indicator of mistrust According to CBOS, this is 82%. Both these levels, and cooperation, and trust, researches the Centre for Social Opinion Research. So it's worth working on it, though, of course, it's a challenge. The more and more often in the European Union and in the world we talk about the economics of cooperation, the more value is generated when it can be based on cooperation, and it doesn't happen without trust, because these are the indicators that always go hand in hand. So that I was completely misunderstood here. I recommend research, really numerous, probably the most described in the report of Poland 2030, as a certain challenge for all of us. The bill is going in such a way as to create a specific incentive for cooperation. It is good that this is going in this direction, because we feel well and understand the exchange, the business, but cooperation based on trust comes more difficult, and there is a great need for this and great benefits can come from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u117	Thank you, Senator. There's no one left to discuss. I would like to inform you that Senator Łuczak has made his speech in the debate on the minutes and that Senator Augustine has made a legislative proposal. The motion is closed... I'm sorry, I'm closing the discussion. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 949, and the report of the Commission In print No 949 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Just first... are there representatives of the ministry?]] We're not asking that yet. Report, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u118	Report. Good. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Commission on the debate on the law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities and the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. This law was a government project. The Health Commission worked on this bill on 18 September this year. The amended law regulates the lowest remuneration of basic workers engaged in medical professions, i.e. persons employed in the context of an employment relationship in medicinal entities engaged in a medical profession within the meaning of Article. 2 (2) 1 point 2 of the Act of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities as well as persons employed in the context of the employment relationship in the medicinal entity. This also applies to persons who are directly involved in the performance of the tasks of the State Sanitary Inspection, as well as to persons who are involved in prevention, anti-epidemic measures in the field of diseases caused by environmental conditions, as well as in the pursuit of educational and health activities. What are the amendments to the Law on Medicinal Activities of 2011 and the Law on how to determine the lowest remuneration of June 2017? There are some very positive changes for staff employed in medicinal entities. Namely, in the novel it is proposed to extend the scope of the subjective act on basic workers other than those performing medical professions, i.e. persons employed in the context of the employment relationship in a medical entity, other than those performing a medical profession, or to carry out work remaining in connection with the provision of medical services in the organizational cells of a medical establishment. This activity is defined in the 2011 Act on Medicinal Activities. It also amends the Annex to the 2017 Act, i.e. I have already mentioned the law on how to determine the lowest remuneration of health care workers. An additional point or additional group is introduced in this Annex, the so-called "11" group. workers of primary activity, other than those pursuing a medical profession. They also have a fixed rate for calculating salaries from the national average in the national economy. This annex on labour ratios is annexed to the Act of last year, which we discussed in June 2017. It is worth adding here that the government for this group of workers employed in medical services offered a basic salary rate of 0,54, but in the seymical work on this law it agreed to the demands of social factors, trade unions, and this ratio was increased by 0,4 percentage points, so that it was 0,58. The next amendment that has been introduced in these laws is, in turn, a change that should satisfy Well, she shouldn't be as happy as she's gonna be. Nurses. Because until now, nurses have been divided into three professional groups. If a nurse or midwife has a master's degree and a specialist title, then the lowest salary is 1.05; if she has only a specialist title or if she is a master, then that factor is 0.73. There are also nurses or midwives who have neither higher education nor specialization, and these ladies, these nurses will have a salary of 0.64. Nurses move on to... I mean. in the previous arrangement, according to the previous qualification, ladies who had either a higher education or a specialization were classified below. So that's also a positive change for nurses. The amendment also amended the deadline by which the directors of the units, whether by collective agreement or by decision of the directors or directors, were responsible for the formation of remuneration in their units, i.e. managers of the units, whether by collective agreement or by decision of the directors... To date, the limit date for setting new salaries was 1 July each year, and now, this law, we introduce a change that these salaries must be determined by 15 June each year. This Act also amended the Act of 10 May 2018 amending the Act on State Medical Rescue to facilitate the planning of work in medical rescue, as this is the fastest way to facilitate the planning of work and earnings in medical rescue. What does the bill have in mind? Why all the changes? The 2017 Act, which is now being revised, is a big problem and expense for the state budget. About 30,000 medical agents... sorry, 22,000 medical agents and nearly 65,000 employees, including 29,000 nurses and over 35,000 primary workers other than medical professionals. We hope that the provision of a permanent, re-valorised systematically every year basic salary for all professional groups employed in medicinal entities will provide certainty for a permanent increase, constant regulation, and will encourage, however, work not on the basis of contracts and civil law contracts, only on the basis of a contract of employment which is for the worker in the long run. In his whole life, I'm not talking about retirement anymore. It's much better. The fact that there are these 3 classifications in a group of nurses and midwives is intended to encourage nurses from the lowest group to train themselves because then they may have higher salaries. All this improves the quality and availability of medical services and ensures patient safety, because that's really what health care is all about. We doctors, nurses are here to ensure the health safety of patients and, in turn, the government must also ensure that we are rewarded better, fairly and according to transparent criteria. This bill was consulted by more than 80 different entities, by trade unions, medical associations, but also by the Union of Polish cities. There's a list of prints you can see, so I won't. I'm not even gonna All 80 entities should be listed. There was no special discussion at the committee meeting. I asked the question. It may also be of interest to the senators' states to see why it is the amount of PLN 3 000 900, which is the basis for the average remuneration in the national economy of 2015. Well, it's still going on... The law on the same subject, the act of 2017 was created on the basis of that economic indicator. In many health care establishments I still use this name, so a little historically; somehow it is easier for me to say that than medicinal entities, there are already some financial plans, financial plans related to the level of contracts with the NFZ, but since 2019 this amount will already be released and will be revalorized annually according to the indicator of the previous year. This is still the act of 2017. We also asked where the money was coming from for these raises. This year, the hospital network, employees in the hospital network And we're talking about, once again, about all the employees, about the medical professionals, and about the employees who didn't make sense of strict medical... bigger contracts. Such a swallow for us, with which all health professionals have high hopes, is the signing of the revised NFZ financial plan on 4 September this year. It is about the added PLN 1 billion 400 million, as the Minister reminded us at the committee meeting. On the social side was a representative of the Chief Pharmacy Council, Mr Krzysztof Baka, who had doubts about the classification of some pharmaceutical workers. I think that no one is harmed here because a pharmacist with a higher education or specialization is classified in Group 5 or, if his qualifications are lower, in Group 6. Once again, I would like to stress that this is a law on the calculation of the lowest basic salary. It does not include allowances that result from the Labour Code if the employee is employed for a contract of employment, i.e. an allowance for years' service or for performing more responsible job functions. I ask the High House to adopt my bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u119	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Gogacz. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u120	I'd like to ask... It may have been said, but I was a little late. It's about art. 1 the law that we are currently working on and the amendment of the record that is currently talking about determining the lowest basic salary of medical professionals. A provision is now being introduced on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. I'd ask for information on what this change is and who are the employees. Previously, they were all medical professionals. Now there will be a record of how to determine the lowest wage for certain workers employed in medicinal entities. Was that discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u121	No. I'll confess to the senator that no one paid attention to such a detail. This is the basic salary. This law has the following name: the Act amending the Act on the manner in which the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. Indeed, this article. 1... so far. The title of the bill... I think we'll ask the Minister to explain it. Okay? [[I've already heard from the former Minister, and I have information. But when it comes to this stage, when the Minister answers the questions, of course, I'll take it. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u122	Are there any further questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion... Excuse me, another government representative. The project was brought in by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? We have Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome. The podium is for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to make a brief addition to the senator's statement. This amendment of the law from last year results from a number of information that we received from employees, employers and local authorities, who are the owners of medicinal agents. Attention was paid to the need to amend this law and this amendment meets the social expectations of the various categories. At this point, Let me comment on the senator's question about the title of this bill. The original title of the Act was: the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. At the moment, we propose this: how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers... We delete the words "professing medical professions," but leave the words "employed in medical entities." What's the difference? The previous version included regulation of medical professionals. These competitions are defined among others. in a regulation of the Minister for Health on the conditions for the provision of benefits. There we list enumeratively those professions that participate directly in the provision of benefits. At this point we are expanding the scope of this law to include employees of primary activities employed in medicinal entities. As you probably know, the 2011 regulation distinguishes between basic workers and administrative and technical workers. So that, speaking of some workers employed in medicinal entities, we mean workers who are defined in this Regulation in the category of primary activity, i.e. those who are involved in the provision of health services. High Izbo, please pass this bill. It is very expected for many reasons and is among others. guaranteeing a progressive annual increase in the remuneration of healthcare professionals involved in the provision of benefits. This is extremely important in a situation where we have a drain of workers, we have shortcomings when it comes to workers engaged in the profession of nurse or doctor. Such a guarantee of successive wage increases is an incentive to work in the public-funded health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u124	Thank you. Please remain a moment, Minister, because there may be questions. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? [[I have a question.]] Senator Gogacz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u125	I'd like to ask the Minister about these medical professions. It's not a big group... I'd ask you to exchange all these medical professions. I don't think this is a big group. I had a meeting with a group of professional rehabilitators, medical physiotherapists. I would like to ask whether the benefits of these records will also apply to this group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u126	Minister, I'll fill in the question, if you don't mind. I would like to clarify this: whether this group of basic medical professions covers all doctors and whether it will be so that this law will give the basis for establishing a minimum wage separately for nurses, separately for physiotherapists, for doctors, etc.? What's it like? I'm gonna ask for an answer, and then you're gonna have to speak to Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u127	Okay, of course. As far as the medical professions are concerned, they are defined in the original law, which was passed last year and which is already in force. The Annex to that Act defines the different professional groups according to the qualifications required in the occupied position. In these categories, i.e. in these 10 categories, such professional groups are listed: doctor, specialist doctor, specialist doctor, doctor without specialization, intern, pharmacist, physiotherapist, laboratory diagnostics or other professional performing a medical profession other than those referred to in points 1 and 4 and requiring higher education and specialization, nurse, nurse with a master's degree with specialization and employees... [[That's for each individual.]] That's for each individual. And there are certain working factors. The coefficients that we will take into account when determining the minimum wage. In this regulation we expand it is yet another group of workers who were not defined here, and are grouped into a set of basic activities in the 2011 Health Minister's Regulation. This Regulation is known to all directors of medicinal products. On this basis they prepare, among others. the rules of remuneration. There are 142 items on the list of core workers, so I won't list them. For example, there are secretaries, medical statistics, medical engineers, technicians, sterilization workers and other persons who participate in any way in the provision of benefits, and they are not strictly medical professions within the meaning of the Act. So that there is an extended scope of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u128	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like to ask what this basic activity and other activities are. When does a secretary operate as a primary activity and when does the same secretary perhaps not act as a primary activity? Is that clear?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u130	Of course. As I answered the previous question, the catalogue of professions contained in the regulation of the Minister of Health in 2011 lists these professions enumeratively. The secretary employed in the primary activity is a secretary who works in a clinic, in a clinic, in a branch that participates in administrative activities related to the provision of benefits. But the secretary of the primary activity will not be the secretary who works in the principal's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u131	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The text of the Act is contained in print No 945, the report of the Commission in print No 945 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Director of post-graduate medical training, Professor Gellert! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which took place on 18 September. However, before I begin to present my proposals to you, I would like to briefly discuss the law and some context. The post-graduate medical training centre is an institution which is not well known to all, but, as far as the medical professions that require higher education are concerned, it is very close to them because it has been coordinating post-graduate training in these professions for a very long time. These are like doctors, dentists, pharmacists, lab diagnes, paramedics, many other professions... In fact, it can be said: except for nurses and midwives who have a separate institution in charge of post-graduate education. It is an institution extremely important to show what the rank of this institution is for this environment. You can give as an example that at the moment there are over 25 thousand doctors who specialize in CMKP care. So that it is an institution that must act well and in a continuous manner. As far as the legal basis for the operation of this institution is concerned, it is, it can be said, anachronistic and at least strange, because the centre operates on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers of 9 October 1970, which established the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre on 1 January 1971. And as we read in the explanatory memorandum of this bill, which today is ahead of us... Very gently, I would say, it says there that this regulation is rooted in a legal system based on different assumptions. And these different assumptions I can say it just a little bit for the amusement of the state, say, among others. I was just... Well, no more assumptions, just the rule under which the CMKP operates, one of the regulations says that the Scientific Council of the Centre sits, among others. a representative of the main party organisation, i.e. the Polish United Workers' Party. It's a mandatory regulation that makes the center work. So you can see here that actually the assumptions on the basis of which the center works are already to be changed. This is because the institution I called here no longer exists, but not only. So there is simply a need for a new standardization. There is also a question of what this center is. This was the case for the most doubts, questions, and also during the joint committee meeting there was a discussion on the subject. It can be said that according to the law we have before us, the centre is to be a state legal person. To discuss what it should be, I will no longer go back, but it is undoubtedly important... To understand, let's say, from a layman's point of view, what the centre is, it must be said that it is something between a scientific institute and a university. You could say it's unique. But it also has to be noted that it is a unique one, which works well in our health care system, and not only in ours. Although this is a legacy of the previous era, such institutions also function successfully in some other countries, in many other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and seem to work well. So you could say... I am talking about this because, in fact, this law, even though it is something completely new in reality to the Center for Postgraduate Medical Training, does not actually change many things, but sanctiones in a new orderly way what is the essence of the centre. And so it follows from this law that the Centre for Postgraduate Medical Training is or will be the subject of, as I have already said, the organisation and coordination of post-graduate education, which guarantees the status of academic teachers for the staff involved in teaching. It's very important. As well as the possibility of their scientific development, including the right to give degrees to a doctor and a habilitated doctor, as well as to apply for the title of professor. The Centre must also have the possibility to conduct research in the field of medical sciences and should therefore have and in accordance with that law it will have The possibility of obtaining external funding for research. This is extremely important because these measures can come from different sources. In view of the need to have clinical facilities, especially in post-graduate training of certain medical professions, the Centre is the founding body for 2 clinical hospitals. Of course, the Act also creates a legal framework for the further functioning of this clinical department, which consists, as I said, of 2 hospitals, 28 clinics, 16 establishments and 1 laboratory. On the one hand, This is a very powerful basis for postgraduate education in medical professions, and on the other hand, it is simply medicinal establishments that work for patients. And it can be said that very important in the context of changing legal bases Because that regulation was issued on the basis of the regulations governing higher education at that time, in the 1970s or in principle in the 1960s, because it was created at that time. The fact is that, at the moment, the provisions of the law that we have before us must be in line with the new rules that we have recently adopted governing higher education and science. Of course, the issues of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre are also governed by the law from the organisational side, and therefore the Act re-regulates not only the new CMKP empowerment, but also certain principles of organisation and coordination of post-graduate training in medical professions, clarifies certain principles of the structure of CMKP, competence of certain bodies. And, as I've already mentioned, it's basically possible to say that as for the essence, it doesn't change much in the functioning of the CMKP, in the way we see it today. I would like to stress, by the way, that many institutions, including medical universities, are involved in post-graduate training in medical professions, but the institution that coordinates this As I said, e.g. in the case of doctors, more than 25 000 people are currently under the care of CMKP. There is only one. It is also an accreditation institution for bodies that train, because some medical professionals are not trained in the centre, but in various other institutions, but it is the centre that accredited these training bodies according to the regulations. The Centre also deals with the qualification of doctors and specialists of other medical professions for specialization courses. An extremely important area of operation of the centre is the preparation and modification of specialization programs, which are in various types of varieties and modules several hundred, e.g. for the doctors themselves there are 369 different programs. Finally, the centre's extremely important activity is to conduct specialized courses, especially in areas where no one else wants to conduct them. And what is extremely important is that sometimes, you can say, if you leave it to some free market, it might turn out that some doctors or other professionals are not able to specialize properly. As I said, the center is engaged in scientific activities, has a category A. The important thing is that it is an institution with a very high scientific status. And he's also in the field of medicine. One of the hospitals downtown, the hospital im. Professor Adam Grucy in Otwock, notabene one of the few non-debted hospitals, is a leading unit against the background of other hospitals, which stands out. It seems that all this is worth recalling, because during the discussion on this new regulation there were proposals or ideas to regulate it differently than before, to make some significant changes. I think it's a good thing that the bill that we have before us, in fact, can be said to sanction what's good in the center. I think that, by the way, it is worth thanking the Director of the Centre, Professor Gellert, and all the employees of the Centre, because it is an opportunity to present this institution, hoping that it will continue to develop in the same style as before. Well, just to mention And yet what the centre is, it can be said that both this practice so far and so in the act is that the position of the director of the centre is, you can say, a position similar to the position of the rector of the university, and the scientific council is a body similar to the senate of the university and according to the same principles. It's all happening. Specific regulations on how these bodies function will be included in the Centre's Statute, also as has been the case so far. Mr Marshal, as a result of everything I have said, I have the honour on behalf of the 2 Joint Committees to ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in... There's a call. Senator Wojtyla. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I agree with the senator that the CMKP is an important institution. I myself used CMKP services during my specialization. And I also know that this is an institution that has not yet been very able to be assigned: is it a research institute, because the scientific board, the director, as if it corresponds to the law on research institutes, or is it a university, because it also deals with post-graduate education? And I have a question about why. the CMKP was not treated as a research institute. After all, research institutes, according to the Research Institutes Act, can also conduct post-graduate studies Not at university level, of course. And that's what the CMKP does. So that I, well... we're creating an institution, and very well, I'm just having second thoughts about whether it makes sense to create something other than something that currently exists in the legal system, which is something else. than either the research institute, or under the Higher Education Act, the new law, Law 2.0, higher education. I also have a question about the fact that in the new bill... Because it's said here that employees become employees of a new institution. But it says in Law 2.0 that... there are teaching professors, assistants, professors. How's that gonna be in the CMKP? Because there's a little bit of a different system. Besides, I don't see who's calling the Scientific Council here. There's nothing in this bill to say who's calling the Scientific Council. There is a composition of the scientific council, but nowhere has I found a record of who is calling this council. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 It is said that the CMKP can receive funding from the state budget. I agree. But why only up to $500,000? What was the reason that only up to $500,000? Research institutes may receive grants and there is no limit to the amount of this grant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u135	Mr. Senator, I'll answer the question, if you don't mind, because it's related to what Senator Wojtyla said. This is because the question is: how is such a centre different from a medical university? If it were just post-graduate education, it would be clear, because first you have to finish a medical university and then you have to improve there. But if you're qualified for PhDs and professorships, you're doing research, and here at the last point, I don't know if I'm gonna say it right. In addition, medical, medical, hospital services can be operated, so how is this different from the university? Isn't this some kind of superuniversity for other medical universities, and is that how it's supposed to be? This is a supplement to Senator Wojtyla's question, because I think we're on the same line... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator, for the question. In answer to both gentlemen's questions, I would say this: it is better if he is not, an enemy of good. Therefore, it is better not to change what works well, and the centre, as I have said several times, works well. And it seems that it's... I'd stick to it. How is the centre different from the institute, and how is the centre different from the university? I told you before, the center is something in the middle. The main difference from the Institute is that... This teaching part, as well as the coordination of post-graduate education, are something that institutes do not do. Since college... [[They don't coordinate?]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[What about postgraduate?]] No, they're not coordinating... Mr. Senator, the coordination of post-graduate education only deals with the centre. What's the difference between the center and the university? The main difference is that there are no first and second degree studies and there are no post-graduate studies. She's often wrong about specialization in medical science and post-graduate studies, and that's not... [[But it's doctoral.]] Yeah, just doctoral studies. That's right. Mr. Marshal, this is the only kind of study that takes place there. First and second degree studies are not held there and postgraduate studies are not held there. There is something that is unique there, one can say, in the field of post-graduate education, namely specialisation. This is a specific type of postgraduate education. And that's what the center does. As the center leads... Such a post-graduate school for persons who have already completed appropriate studies and are qualified persons must have teachers who have the right rank, the right status. Even so they want to work there Therefore, some kind of reference is made to the university, so that teachers in this centre are academic teachers. If that's where the dorm teachers work... It would be hard to imagine a school that would only be a teaching school and did not have the opportunity to conduct research. And that's why it's possible to do research. Expanding... We are talking about post-graduate education in medical professions and it would be hard to imagine that it would only be done, so to speak, dry, at courses that do not have roots in specific clinics. Hence the possibility of running these clinics through the CMKP. Now, back to these basic questions, isn't this a coincidence college, or shouldn't this be a college... [[There it is.]] No... [[This is a college.]] It's a little bit different. [[There it is.]] Shouldn't it just be an institute? No, because it's something else, something in between. This has been the case for nearly 50 years, and it seems that this form has proven itself so well that it is not worth thinking about any fundamental change. There was a discussion on this subject. Some medical institutions even set up departments, branches, or other cells that are involved in postgraduate education. And so it will continue to be, but this coordinator of education Because of his status, his rank, also in the context of the health system, because it is at stake. the question of determining what is the priority in which direction This training should be conducted in particular... For this purpose, a special institution is required, which, in close coordination with the Minister of Health, is involved in determining what specializations will be, what should be the programmes of these specialisations, and coordinating this education, which is also extremely complicated, extensive. At the same time, I pay very much attention to what I have already mentioned, which means that this system is in constant motion. Currently there are over 25 000 doctors, as well as thousands of other professionals who are coordinated by the Centre. It is important to be very careful in regulating this issue again so that there is no distortion of this education. There are doctors or other professionals who have just started their education or are already in the fifth or sixth year of their education, and it seems that some fundamental change concerning the institution that leads again: it leads well Its activities in this area would simply be dangerous for the health system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u137	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Senator Wojtyła, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u138	Who is calling counsel? That was a question. What's it gonna be like with these teachers? Is there going to be a teaching professor there, as is the Higher Education Act? It is not explicitly mentioned here, but it is said that academic teachers remain academic teachers, but in this new law there are distinctions between professors and teaching professors who do not study. What's it gonna be like at the CMKP?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u139	Detailed regulation on how this advice is invoked will be in the statutes, as has been the case so far. As I said, the provisions relating to the university senate, contained in the so-called, apply to the Council in an appropriate manner. Law 2.0. [[And it doesn't say... where does it say, Mr. Senator?]] The assumption is that where there is no regulation, the so-called rules will apply accordingly. Law 2.0. [[Where is it written, Senator?]] Then maybe we can ask the Minister to add that... But I don't think there's any doubt about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u140	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, wish to speak on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: No one signed up.]] I'll sign up if no one sign up. Since what I would like to say goes beyond the wording of the question, I use the proximity of the microphone and the fact that no one has joined the discussion. I will say that this concept of an education centre does not convince me for two reasons. The first is the lesser reason, that's the name itself. As it is said at the beginning, the medical center, it reminds everyone of the fact that it is something about medicine, about treatment. But if I were to start by saying that this is the center of education, then the accent would be a little different. But that's less attention. The big point is, I see that this is a test. building a medical superuniversity. Is that necessary? Because as for the need for post-graduate medical training, I have no doubt. I don't think any other area of our modern life is developing as fast as medicine, and I imagine that a doctor who graduated 10 years ago should actually have to renew it after 10 years in order to be in the course of what medical science discovers. So that post-graduate education seems to me extremely necessary to get higher grades, and to be in the course new medical knowledge. For this it is certainly necessary, as the Senator rapporteur said, that it should not be a dry education institution, which has its own medical, medical workshop, where it will work and where these doctors will be educated. But is that what doctoral and professorship qualifications are needed for? I have very serious doubts about that. Because in fact, this center isn't just gonna be any different from the medical university... In fact, it will differ in favour of the fact that it will be able to postgraduate education, which medical universities, medical universities, do not have the right to do. So there's actually a disturbance here. The question is: couldn't medical universities do this post-graduate education? If there's a center like this, it's got a lot of work to do and it's been training all over the country. So be it. But I don't see any need for him to also broadcast PhDs and professorships. Because then it ceases to be an ordinary centre of vocational training and becomes a centre of scientific education. Especially since he's supposed to be doing research. In this whole concept, I think there's a crack. I'm sorry, but I'm saying this from a more professorial position than a political one. Thank you. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? Senator Radziwill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wouldn't want Senator Wojtyla's question hanging in the air so that something wasn't right, so I've already checked: there's an art. 5, which states that it is in such situations that the provisions of the Law on Higher Education and Science, namely the so-called Law, apply accordingly. Law 2.0 on these various issues, e.g. Scientific advice. Like I said, a director like a rector, a scientific council like a senate, there's no doubt about that. I wouldn't want to... I don't dare discuss or argue with a marshal, but it seems... Surely universities, medical universities can provide post-graduate education. And, like I said, they're doing it. And the core of the work of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, as it is said, core, is primarily the coordination of this education, the preparation of specialization programmes, the accreditation of individuals who can carry out this training. And because this system works well... As it seems, it should definitely be noted that it works well. And we're not talking absolutely about creating something new here, about no new concept, just about a new recipe that's organized in relation to that, completely archaic, from the previous era, what works well, in such a way that the continuation will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u142	Thank you, Senator. That was the voice in the discussion. Senator Wojtyła still wants to speak in the discussion, but before we reach the speaker, I will just say the last immodest word: that this is actually a university of post-graduate education. Because if it wasn't for PhDs and professors, it'd be pretty clear. But what we are talking about here is not limited to coordination, because this is a specific scientific activity that produces doctorates and professors. So much for me. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wouldn't want to be understood so that I'm against the CMKP because I used this institution and... Now she may be less important than in those days when I was specializing, and I regret that doctors can't use CMKP services as much as I did in my day. But I have my doubts of a formal nature. Now the Senator rapporteur was talking about how we are referring to the new law on higher education. There's a university council that proposes a candidate for the rector. There's no talking about college council here. So if there is to be this university council that proposes a candidate for the rector, and the Senate elects this rector from among the candidates who have been proposed by this council, how will this be done here? Because there's nothing here to say whether there's going to be a university council or if it's a university council that's made up of half of external entities, and halfway through... there's got to be at least one student and 50% of the academic teachers... Are they going to be academics or scientists or who is it going to be? Well, because the Senate will choose. Mr. Senator said this refers to the Higher Education Act. Well, the Senate will choose. Who's gonna offer? There's the college board. Who's gonna be here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u144	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak in the discussion? No one's checking in. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law of the Code of Offences and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 943, and the report of the Commission In print No 943 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Senator, you're not here.]] Yes? Because there is no senator, Senator President Stanisław Gogacz will report. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Respecting the time of the country of ministers who have come to us, I will present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Legislative Committee, contained in print No. 943 A, on the Law on the Amendment of the Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 13 September 2018. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 18 September. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 19 September 2018, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Law amending the Law of the Code of Offences and certain other laws. The Senate, after considering the Law on the amendment of the Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 13 September 2018, amends the following text. Amendment 1: in Article. 1 in point 1, in Article. 10a in §1 the words "with other acts' shall be replaced by "with another act or act'. The assumption was that... Leaving the record together with other acts might suggest that there could be no situation... For how should we deal with a situation in which it would not be together with other acts, but with another act? There can only be one other act. Well, that's what I'm gonna say. That's the one thing that's been added here. The point was to take into account all kinds of situations. Amendment 2 seeks to harmonise the provisions of the Act. Amendment three: words may occur no later than 60 days shall be replaced by words no later than 60 days. Last amendment: Article. 7. the words "as amended by this Act" shall be deleted. Well, that's obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, the committees discussed these proposals. I would like to say that the most important, one of the most important changes concerns the article. 108, where do we enter... No, Art. 119, where there's a change of definition... The point is, what I'm going to say is, the magnitude of the guilt determines whether we're talking about a crime or a crime. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 119 so far there has been such a record: who steals or takes advantage of someone else's movable property, if its value does not exceed 1/4 of the minimum wage, is subject to arrest, value limitation or fine. Now this record is changing. Not 1/4 will be the size that is the criterion A fixed amount of PLN 500 is introduced. Who steals or takes advantage of someone else's moving thing, if its value does not exceed 500 PLN... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 120, when it comes to embezzlement, but it's already about a tree in the woods, and punishment, and so on... Well, a similar solution is proposed. It was suggested here that this 1/4 minimum wage was not a fixed amount, but it was a fixed amount. Of course, this concerns changes in the Code of Offences, as well as in the Code of Conduct for Offences Act, and the Police Act is also amended. And yet... where is this art here? 3... The Penal Code Act is also amended. So that I ask you to accept this proposal to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u146	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Warchoł is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have actually a question for the passers-by from the committee meeting, to which I have not received a specific answer, and I will repeat it here, and I will address it to the Minister. Namely in one of the articles added to the Police Act, art. 20f, created is... I mean, this article gives you the opportunity to create so-called. A record of offences. In this register data will be collected not only of potential perpetrators and of their actions, but also of personal data of victims, i.e. The ones that were robbed. Then this ledger is cleaned. When it comes to data related to the perpetrators, it's in the mouth. 15 is indicated when this register is to be cleaned, when these data are to be deleted, etc. As far as victims are concerned, e.g. in the case of theft, that's what the mouth talks about. 16, which refers only to the fact that data from this register, as far as victims are concerned, are deleted with the deletion of the data of the perpetrator of the act. But it may be that the perpetrator of the act will not be established. And then what? Will such data remain forever in this register, or is there any other way to delete this data?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u148	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u149	Thank you very much. The absence of a finding of the perpetrator of the act makes it impossible to enter an entry in the register. What do I make of this? Namely, there is no way to enter information in which there is no perpetrator of such an act, an established perpetrator. Changed article. 20f of the Police Act indicates that information about the persons referred to in paragraph. 1, contain names, aliases and specific data on the perpetrator of the act. It's hard to imagine a deed being written without a perpetrator. The unsub is part of this act. Come on. All this information is meant to serve... They are not meant to be written only for the sake of writing, they are to be used later to assign to the perpetrator a crime in a situation where the value of the property which the perpetrator has taken exceeds 500 PLN appropriate to the crime, to include all these behaviours, to create from them the so-called. a continuous act and accuse him of a crime, treat him as a criminal, and then file an indictment. The data about the act itself without an established person gives nothing, completely, are useless and therefore I do not see the need to enter this type of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u150	Are there any more questions? Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u151	That's my question. If these data relating to the perpetrator are stored and the perpetrator carries out further crimes during the period e.g. Ten years, is the one blamed for the first crime... Are these data following this criminal or not? Are they still in the file? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u153	If this is not statute-barred and is not covered by the sentence, then, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u154	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No further questions. Minister, thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you, too.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator and Dear Senators, Dear Minister, You just answered my question that even 10 years, I don't know, maybe 15, maybe 20, will roam and will be available in the police records of the person who was blamed. What does that mean? It means that... and that they will wander without his knowledge, because, as soon as I say to you, blamed, he doesn't even need to know that his data is going to be going somewhere and will always be available. And we know that not always blamed wishes that so many people, e.g. In all police stations, all police officers who can use the data have had for 10 years, 20 years of blame. As long as this criminal is held accountable again and again, this data can function. But let them function not even 10 years, let them function 2 or 3 years. I am against it, and I think it is completely unnecessary and that it is so that the blame is put into a situation that has absolutely no bearing on it. Art. 20f says that data is collected on persons suspected of committing certain acts and blamed and punished for these offences, even without their knowledge and consent. So that it can be used without their knowledge and consent. I will make such an amendment that in Article. 20f in the mouth. 1 The words "blamed" shall be deleted. I don't think that data is necessary. We heard at the committee meeting that because a directive is about to come in, which will protect us from gathering this kind of information, this will be changed. But I don't know when we're gonna implement these rules, I'd rather blow them off and secure them. It's in advance, which is why I'm making an amendment. And the second thing, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, I was surprised, too. We haven't received... There wasn't a representative of GIODO at the committee meeting at all... I think in cases like this, when data... Maybe I'll read you what the data is. These are: names, surnames, aliases, parents' names, date and place of birth, identity identification features, address of residence, PESEL, nationality, sex, sources of maintenance The place of employment, as far as possible data on material, family and personal conditions, such things. It is also the time and place of the act, the description of the act, including the manner in which the perpetrator acted and the circumstances in which he committed it. I draw attention to the fact that this can really be very sensitive data and not everyone can wish that such things were available in the register for all police officers. I don't see any need for that either. The second point, the second amendment I would like to make, concerns the perpetrators of the offences and the fact that, after the changes in the laws in question, the perpetrator of the offences will in some cases be treated as a criminal. There's an art. 74 §2, which states that.... The police officer's removal from the cheek smear if necessary and there is no concern that this would endanger the health of the accused or other persons. So you can take a swab. And further: In relation to the suspect, the tests or activities referred to in §2 (1) may be carried out and, subject to the requirements laid down in §2 (2) or (3), draw blood, hair, smear from the cheeks or other secretions of the organism. And then, §3a: The defendant or suspect shall be called upon to submit to the obligations arising from §2 and 3. If you refuse to give in to these obligations... In the event of refusal, the person may be forced to do so, physical strength or technical means of restraint may be applied. As I understand it, the taser is also an option. And let me remind you, this is about a person who's guilty of a misdemeanor. He's not some criminal, he's not proven anything, etc. I think we're going too far here. Therefore, I propose an amendment to apply to the person suspected of committing the offence one of those provisions, respectively, and such coercive measures should be applied to a person suspected of committing a criminal offence under arrest. And that will be my amendment. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: we are giving the police again a tool that may not be used, but can also be used. And it's clearly written here. It can be used e.g. to those who are referred to as political opponents, because e.g. They took part in a demonstration and committed some kind of misdemeanor. I believe that this gives the police an enormous opportunity to abuse and exploit this provision. I strongly protest this and make these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. Thank you for the correction. Senator Rulewski will speak now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I join Senator Zdrojewska's statements and comments. In particular, I believe that we are growing more and more IT Poland industry. Each industry builds its information platform. And not necessarily enough to convince this as to the need, but also as to the extent to which, so to speak, the spread of these data, as Senator Zdrojewska said. I, on the other hand, have an amendment, and I would ask for the government's response... there is no doubt about the need for this law at all. Although there is a discussion as to whether to adopt a flexible system for bordering offences or permanent ones, but since this is just a discussion, since there are no strong arguments, I accept that this is the right solution. And I will not oppose this solution, which introduces a fixed limit, which is independent of wage developments, especially the minimum wage. However, High Izbo and the Ministers present in this Chamber, I would like to draw attention to the article. 2, which concerns the old article of the Act, the basic law, art. 20f. And there in point 15, far away, it is written that the personal data of the persons in question is deleted from the register of offences 3 years after entry into the register, while the general principle of blurring offences contained in Article. 46 §1 of the Code of Offences provides for 2 years. So you're extending this country beyond the requirements of the Code of Offences, from 2 to 3 years. I don't even think it's a 50% difference. That's why I'm making an amendment in case you don't convince me that this is a mistake. or that it should be as provided for in the Code of Offences in Article. 46, which is two years, which, as far as I'm concerned, the ministry hasn't questioned yet. This is exceeding the measure contained in the basic standard. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Thank you...]] That's it, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you so much for not interrupting my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u158	But, Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...I never interrupt you. [[But I always thank you, even for what doesn't happen.]] I see. Appreciate it. Do you have an amendment? [[Yes, I do.]] In writing and signed? [[Yes. Please.]] Good. Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'd still like to turn myself in. Two sentences.]] Mrs. Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u159	Even shorter. [[Good.]] I'm sorry, but I forgot to say that this is not just my opinion, it is also the opinion of the Ombudsman, which, moreover, has been quite detailed in relation to these 2 points. I've prepared the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Jan Rulewski have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes. Thank you.]] I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start at the end. Senator Rulewski has filed a complaint that we are extending the limitation period. No, it's not. Art. 45 of the Code of Offences in §1 indicates a period of 3 years already at the moment, as amended in 2017. The criminality of the offence ceases if one year has elapsed since the time of the offence was committed, and if proceedings have been initiated during that period, the criminality of the offence ceases within 2 years of the end of that period, i.e. a total of 3 years. And that's why here... [[You've added it up.]] That's right, we put it together, because the end of the period is always the end of the period of 3 years. This is the first case. Mr. Senator, as I recall, had this one request. Now I'm going to refer to the senator's statement. First line. Already in the central register of drivers we have data of people who violate traffic regulations. Art. 130 §1 traffic rights indicate that the data are collected, collected and stored in this register. Therefore, the very essence of the register is already known. And it's not like the senator said that after 15 years this data will be stored. No, the data is kept until limitation and that's all. If the perpetrator commits new acts during these 3 years, it is natural that his data will be displayed in this register in order to be able to sum up these actions... It is necessary to cover the whole of his behaviour with these new rules. We can't throw this data out of the register, we can't say it wasn't, because then the registry would be meaningless. If someone is, I'd say, a habit thief and steals every two years, just in this particular period, let's assume, quite regularly, it would be pointless at this point to treat him like an innocent person, completely unpunished in a situation where two years earlier... [[I was talking about the victim.]] And it's gonna be... As far as the victim is concerned, this information can be deleted at his request and here... Wounded is necessary for the formulation of an indictment. The police today... In writing today's indictment, the prosecutor must also have a record of the defendant, of the victim, of the amount of damage committed, so that he may later be able to make amends to the victim. The injured person may lodge a claim for compensation, and the court shall then decide on other, different compensation measures for the victim. The victim is therefore a party to the procedure. So that we cannot lose sight of the victim, he is also seen, is a necessary part of bringing out the indictment. Because when we write the indictment, how are we gonna cross out the data on the victim? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u162	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that item 7 of the agenda is the Act on amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State's borders, which will be discussed on the second day of the Senate's deliberations. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on public-funded healthcare provision. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 948, and the report of the Commission In print No 948 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u163	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! I would like to present a report on the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds. The revision is not large, it concerns 3 issues. The first, most important, concerns the possibility for a medical assistant to issue a certificate in case of illness, which is determined after consultation with the doctor examining the person applying for health care and with the person who will perform this function. This change is dictated by the belief that it will optimize the patient's time. Art. 1 The amending act contains a new article. 54a, which sets out the rules on which this medical assistant may perform this task. First of all, there's a question of the doctor's trust in this person. Secondly, this is a period of authorisation, a period of time. Thirdly, it is entered in the register of ZUS and ZUS verifying the possibility of making electronic medical certificates available to the person concerned. As I said, the main goal is for the doctor to do the least of the activities in which other people can replace him, in this case a medical assistant who can perform various medical professions. As I said before, this is about optimizing the work of a doctor, who is a basic person in the healthcare sector. This is the first shift. The second amendment introduces an extended scope of action of the National Health Fund in the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. If this amendment is adopted, the National Health Fund will also have to finance the informationization and training of healthcare services. The costs of the fund, in accordance with this amendment, shall also be considered to be the costs of IT-related tasks and training in this field. Funding is foreseen in 2018 in the form of a targeted grant of up to PLN 50 million for this purpose. The third issue related to this amendment concerns the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 19 June 2018 declaring non-compliance. Paragraph 2 (9) in conjunction with §32 (9). 2 point 2 of the Regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Social Policy of 15 July 2003 on the judgment on disability and the degree of disability with the Constitution, in so far as it provides for compulsory inclusion of symbols of the cause of disability and consequently of the type of illness, in particular mental illness, as the causes of disability in the disability judgment. These 3 issues concern an amendment. It would enter into force 14 days after the announcement. How was the discussion during the committee meeting? First of all, the committee wondered whether it was appropriate to delegate this obligation to a person other than a doctor. There was a discussion around it, and the question was whether it was appropriate for doctors to do so. During the committee's meeting, there were voices that, because of the considerable burden on doctors, the possibility of such a possibility of action, which is already being carried out informally, because it is very often that the doctor cooperates with a medical worker who already has such a function, and the doctor himself merely signs a certificate and nails the stamp underneath it... This would formalise the practice that exists today. It has also been stressed, and the Minister has also done so, that this will give more opportunities for patients to spend time with their doctors. Of course, during the committee's deliberations it was stressed that other medical professions were also very heavy, and this also needs to be taken into account. Then there was a discussion on this task, which could be achieved through this amendment, if it was adopted. It is about extending the scope of the National Health Fund and financing IT benefits. This is where the Pharmacy Chamber pointed out that it could not use this option, and therefore an amendment implementing this expectation of the Pharmacy Chamber has been tabled. That was the second point. As regards the comments of the Legislative Bureau, I would say that the Legislative Office indicated that some of the wordings in the amendment were quite difficult to write in terms of reading, but it did not raise any fundamental objections. There was a vote in which 4 members of the committee voted in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. There was an announcement of a possible amendment to the Senate's plenary hearing on the financing of information technology from the state budget through the National Health Fund. Perhaps this will happen. That's basically what I have to say about the committee meeting that took place yesterday. With the committee's active participation in the discussion, this amendment was... It is supported by a majority of committees, without amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Yes, of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u165	Thank you. Minister, I would like to make such a clear confirmation that this law, which changes working conditions and wages, in particular auxiliary staff authorised to issue certificates, including sick leave, has been sufficiently consulted, of course, under the responsibility of the government for carrying out consultations. Second thing. In fact, I agree that the pharmacy was omitted from this law in terms of funding them in terms of IT equipment... Since medical certificates include not only medical exemptions, but also prescriptions, other certificates, and they will be carried out by pharmacies, which will have to have extended tasks for this purpose, and in this law there is no provision for them to have a single zloty, I ask an additional question: if not in this law, will the Minister intend to fix it in the following laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u166	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the first question, I would like to remind you that during the committee meeting I promised that I would examine the results of the consultation in detail. So I looked at the consultations, the consultation procedure. What I can convey as the conclusions of the consultation process on the draft law amending the allowance bill is that the project has been consulted with all organisations representing the entities to which this project is addressed, i.e. representative trade unions, representative employers' organisations, the Council of Social Dialogue, as well as Chambers: the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics and the Chief Medical Chamber. Among the opinions that have been presented, there is actually no opinion that would be negative for this project. All medical workers, as well as the environment of health professionals, see the need to improve the process of issuing medical certificates, to support doctors in carrying out their duties not only in relation to the issue of medical certificates, but also in relation to typically medical activities, diagnostic activities, treatment-related activities. So that the consultation was carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Act and, as I mentioned, support and positive opinion were expressed in the positions of all organisations which expressed such an opinion at all. As regards the issue of pharmacies, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members to the fact that this is a draft law which concerns a small section of social security law. This is a draft law whose main purpose is to amend the Law on Cash Benefits from Social Insurance in the event of sickness and maternity. This change is really about the technique of issuing judgments and issuing medical certificates. This is a change in the legal acceptance of participation in this process of healthcare professionals, who are not doctors, who directly provide health services. That's the scope of the bill. The Act in this regard does not in any way apply to apothecaries. As regards the regulation concerning the subject-matter of persons who may issue medical certificates It may be otherwise: to rule on incapacity for work It is this subjective scope that does not change. Such competence may be exercised only by doctors, dentists, felchers or senior rectors who have been individually authorised by the pension body of the Social Insurance Institution. pharmacies owners, people running drugstores don't have that kind of competence. I do not mean to say that the amendment to the Law on public-funded health benefits is intended to change the article. The 94th Act applies only to persons who issue medical certificates on incapacity for work. I mean... I'm sorry, Art. 97 Law on public-funded healthcare provision. As the rapporteur has already said, the aim of the amendment is to extend the scope of the existing powers of the National Health Fund, to extend them to a new competence, i.e. financing the information and training of healthcare services. This extension of the powers of the National Health Fund concerns the wider health services, and not only those of the medical professions who are authorised to issue medical certificates. This solution is universal and may also apply to pharmacies owners or pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u168	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? Please. You're Senator Czerwiński first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am interested in this new provision, or actually the amended provision, concerning what is included in the disability ruling. Three symbols appear. This is to be the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Is it that part of the regulation that the Court has challenged has been transferred to the law, because it is necessary, or is it a new idea? What are the three symbols? There should be some table where these symbols will be decoded and specific diseases will be given.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u170	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u171	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the question raised by your senator, the answer to the question is based on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which we are really implementing or implementing in this law. I'm talking about the sentence. The Constitutional Tribunal of 19 June 2018, the judgment which entered into force on 27 June that year. This is the judgment in which, as the senator mentioned, the Court questioned the constitutionality of §13 paragraph. Point 2 (9) of the 2003 Regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Social Policy on the judgment on disability and disability. The Court held that the authorisation of the panel on disability to indicate in the judgment by one of the codes... These codes do not change, they remain the same and are regulated in this Regulation. However, the authority of the panel on disability that actually obliges the team to indicate in the content of the ruling the cause of disability may infringe the right to privacy. Right? The Court found that the right to privacy is protected in precisely those provisions which it has indicated here, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 47 constitutions or articles. 51 of the Constitution, but that these provisions should be read in the context of Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. And this provision gives the legislator the opportunity to limit certain subjective rights, but only in a statutory act. And we, you might say, are disproved by the fact that to the law on occupational rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons this provision, which we consider to be very necessary and useful... And here I would also like to refer to the opinion of the environments representing employers who employ people with disabilities. Also during the legislative work in the Sejm, during the committee meeting, it was stressed that the need to appeal to the cause of disability still exists because employers employing persons whose disability has arisen, for example. because of mental illness, they benefit from other forms, from a wider range of funding e.g. the remuneration of such persons, from other forms of financial support. So that I would say that I was not accidentally giving this deadline on 27 June, the date of entry into force or publication of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, because there was actually no provision from that date that gave the basis for such decisions giving reasons, so that the groups who ruled on disability did not indicate the reason. Well, it can be said that such decisions have been given, and therefore there is a need for persons who have obtained such a decision, and the reason for this disability was specific... Of course, it is in case these people want to obtain such a certificate. Thus, in this law, we give such persons the opportunity to speak to a team which has ruled about disability, to issue a certificate that the cause of this disability ruling was a particular reason. And this concerns this period, so to speak, a transitional period between 27 June 2018 and really the date of entry into force of this law. After the entry into force of this law, we will apply only the Act on the employment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u172	So from the point of view of the person who gets such a judgment, it's actually not much that changes, because only the legal basis has changed. Am I right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I mean, it changes...]] Will the ruling look the same, practically?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u173	Yeah, we'll use the same codes. As I said, it is the removal of this deficiency of non-constitutionality, which was indicated by the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you a question which has been the subject of the committee's deliberations, but I have not explained it. What's gonna happen if the medical assistant doesn't agree? The doctor trusts him, asks the medical assistant to carry out certifications, but for various reasons, for example because of the workload, he does not agree. What may be the consequences of such a situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u176	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It can be said that the design that we adopt in this law is that the medical worker's authorization itself, and it is worth using this term precisely, to issue a certificate of incapacity for work Not ruling on incapacity and issuing a certain technical activity related to the certificate of incapacity for work itself It will take the form of a unilateral legal action. In short, a doctor and another health care professional The dental practitioner, the felcher or the senior felcher will be able to unilaterally authorize such person, the person cooperating with him, the person to whom he has confidence, to issue such medical certificates on his behalf. Indeed, there is a certain labour context, more specifically, a legal worker who accompanies this authorisation, because, notice, the essence of this law is that we are actually calling for a new function into life, and it will be carried out by workers who are already employed in health care, or medical assistant. This means that in some ways we also sanction or legalize a practice with which we may sometimes meet today. Right? One can say yes: it follows that in the event of authorisation to issue a medical certificate to a medical assistant, we will in any case be dealing with an extension of the scope of duties of such an employee. Thus, in principle, this authorisation will have to be accompanied by a legal act in the field of labour law, i.e. either by a change notice, i.e. by proposing to the same staff member the performance of his duties or by the exercise of his duties as medical assistant by means of a change notice, or so-called. an amending agreement, in short, a bilateral legal act. And in one case, and in the other case, it will really be up to the medical assistant to decide whether or not to accept these new, proposed conditions. If the structure of the amending notice is applied and such a worker rejects the proposal to accept new conditions, the consequence may be the termination of the employment relationship. Right? In case of application... So that's a solution after the termination of the notice period. If a solution is applied to propose an amending agreement, this type of negative effect in the form, as I said, there will be no possibility of termination of the employment relationship. In any case, there will be a need to do some work-law work, action in the event of a formal one-sided termination, but, you can say, taking into account the will of the medical assistant himself. In the case of an amending agreement, this is by definition a bilateral legal act. In the discussion that we had at the committee meeting, there was also a topic on remuneration. I think it is worth mentioning here that this individual activity, which will accompany the medical assistant's authorisation to issue medical certificates, this proposal from the employer, will also be able to take into account the wage element. I mean, if this factor or this element of the arrangement were to be e.g. increase in remuneration, there is no obstacle for employers to propose an adequate increase in remuneration in this work activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u178	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Yes? Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, by continuing to have some doubts as to whether Senator Szymański's question, I am referring here to the wording of a law in which it is said that this act, which you are so well represented, has legal effects. There is therefore a question about the costs of this operation, different, social and financial, given that, as stated in the Act, this authorisation will be for only 12 months. Therefore, the question is whether this workload consisting of the possible termination of hundreds, thousands of contracts or the conclusion of agreements which must be amended at least once a year, concluded for a period of not more than 12 months... Will there not be huge campaigns every year, with known results and known tensions? Yet there may be other reasons for changing the employment relationship caused by this law. Well, doctors change, not everyone gives authorization. How do you see these big surgeries that will have to be repeated every 12 months?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u180	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The question of the scope of the persons to whom this law may apply is set out in the impact assessment. Of course, these are estimates, estimates based actually on some information that we received from the Social Insurance Institution regarding the number of doctors authorised to issue such medical certificates about incapacity to work. This number is now about 147 thousand, well, about 150 thousand. That's the assumption we've taken. Of course, it's about doctors, dentists, felchers, senior felchers. We have also assumed that a doctor may wish to authorize the issue of such medical certificates, not just one person, but more people. I assume that there will be doctors who will not benefit from this solution at all, which means that no one will be authorized to issue these medical certificates themselves, but we cannot accept that... a doctor who works for a long time may want to authorize more than 1 person to issue such medical certificates. In the OSR, we assumed that the number of people who might be affected by this bill was 300,000 medical assistants. And I would stress that these are estimates, and this is estimates, I would say very cautiously. This is a number closer to the maximum number of medical assistants who can obtain such authorisation, as far as possible, than the number I believe will be entered in the Register of Medical Assistants. As regards the cost of implementing this solution, these costs consist of several elements. The biggest cost, I think, that we stress in the impact assessment of regulation, is the cost of training these potential 300 000 medical assistants. That's the cost that the Social Insurance Institution took on. This cost is estimated at about PLN 17 million 648 thousand. As regards the cost of adjusting or, in other words, creating a register of medical assistants and adapting the IT system of the Ministry of Health, the total cost is about PLN 2 million. In addition, there are costs on the part of the Social Insurance Institution, which may already be less significant, i.e. cost of modification of the electronic service platform This is PLN 150 thousand and costs related to the modification of services for office applications, i.e. costs of PLN 77 000 500. I'll remind you. Senator Szymanski mentioned this here. The law provides for the possibility to finance the provision of equipment and software to doctors. It is possible for the Minister of Health to spend or transfer a maximum amount to the National Health Fund PLN 50 million in 2019 I can say that in a sense in this way co-financing the creation of a register of medical assistants or the function of a medical assistant is additionally included in the Social Insurance Institution, because the Act assumes a reduction in the amount of the write-down to the Social Insurance Institution, a write-down on health insurance contributions collected by the Social Insurance Institution and transferred to the National Health Fund today from 0.20% to 0.175%. I stress that this is only a temporary solution. This is a solution that will apply only in 2019. And it will cause that the Social Insurance Institution will receive PLN 18.9 million less than it would have been in a situation where this write-off would be at the statutory level, or 0.20%. Of course, these are the funds that will remain in the National Health Fund and can be used precisely for this purpose, which I mentioned, the aim of computerising health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u182	Thank you, Minister. You want to ask, don't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u183	To ask, yes, you rightly put it, Mrs. Marshal. Maybe it's on my side that I didn't support a few words of my question. The Act states that these authorisations may not last for more than 12 months. So every 12 months, the authorizations will have to be changed. And the derivative is what you've already said to us so beautifully: the need to make agreements with employees... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I will explain. Let me get this straight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u185	So, yes, it's not necessary... [[Why no longer?]] I mentioned that, in fact, the decision to take advantage of the possibility... We're dealing with full optionality. [[Not full.]] Decision to exercise the authority of its co-worker A trusted collaborator First of all, it belongs to the doctor himself. He must answer the question of whether, first of all, he wants and has time to issue medical certificates himself, and secondly, he has in his surroundings a trusted collaborator whom he can entrust with this function as medical assistant. Well, you could say that these 12 months are related to the fact that it also gives... Maybe I'll just talk about this optionality. By explaining these legal aspects, I also tried to make you aware that there is no authorisation here as if without the will of the medical assistant himself. And this will is also, you can say, as if it were taken into account in these work-law structures, which will be accompanied by such authorisation. The senator asked me about this 12-month period. [[Yes.]] The assumption is that this is also, at least as far as this first period of cooperation and the exercise of this new medical assistant function is concerned... 12 months gives, you can say, the possibility of testing, assessing whether this function is performed by this person properly. This period of 12 months does not mean that your doctor will not be able to revoke this authorisation within 12 months. This period of 12 months does not mean that during this period the medical assistant, but also the doctor who gave the assistant the authority, will not be responsible for a situation where the performance of the medical assistant function will not be in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u186	Thank you very much. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u187	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have to say, I think this whole assistant idea is some kind of experiment. Let's hope it works. The Minister has spoken of this trusted person many times here. I, to be honest, don't know why it has to be a trusted person, the one the doctor authorizes, because actually all responsibility falls on this person, not on the doctor. And I'd like to ask you about your comment on the second amendment, Art. 60. In lithium. and there is a record: if an irregularity has been found in the issue of medical certificates, in particular where the medical certificate has been issued: 1) without carrying out a direct examination of the insured person, 2) Without proof of the diagnosis on the basis of the judgment of temporary incapacity for work, the Social Security Office may, in the form of a decision, withdraw the authorisation. So he's actually gonna punish this... I mean, if it's punishment. But I understand that then this authorized employee will lose those... [[He's losing credibility.]] ...a few hundred zlotys to pay for it, right? No doctor ZUS will punish you. Please note that here it is said that firstly, without carrying out a direct examination of the insured person and secondly, that without a documented diagnosis. To be honest, in my opinion, it should be without proof of health, not diagnosis, because this diagnosis is not the basis for medical dismissal, it's the medical condition, isn't it? And this... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Which one is the recipe, Mr. Senator?]] This is... This is a change... Oh, it's awfully long. This applies to Article. 60 laws. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Well, I have the impression...]] It's on page 5 of the bill. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki:...Mr. Senator, this is a recipe that applies today, because...]] But as far as the doctor's concerned... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki:...this is a recipe that concerns a doctor.]] About the doctor... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes, yes.]] Okay, but here's the speech... Please pay attention... Please comment on this. Because my question is this... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I will be happy to explain, because...]] But wait a minute, Minister, because I haven't told you what's going on yet... [[Then please clarify the question...]] Exactly. [[...because it's time, Lord...]] Yeah, yeah. Excuse me. [[...Master, so please...]] In fact, it appears from this article that the assistant must de facto check the medical records produced by the doctor for whether a direct examination of the insured person has been carried out After all, this is not directly due to paper or records It must also check the evidence of the diagnosis underlying the temporary incapacity for work. Because I understand that the doctor will write somewhere at the end of the documentation.: ZLA 25.30 September, and the medical assistant should rewrite it as if on this computer printing. But before that, he needs to look at the records as to whether the doctor has carried out a direct examination of the insured person and whether he has properly documented the diagnosis. How do you even imagine that? Because I can't imagine. Well, we're talking about an assistant who may not be a medic at all, right? 'Cause half the poor, like a nurse... [[Good. Thank you, Minister.]] ...but worse than that, like a medical secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u188	Thank you very much. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u189	As I mentioned, regarding the question of the conduct itself... otherwise: the process prior to the issuance of a medical certificate on incapacity for work, this law does not change anything. That is to say, a doctor must give a decision on incapacity to work before a physical examination, a direct medical examination. The decision he makes must be documented in the medical records. The doctor's making a ruling. The medical assistant only issues a medical certificate. If I had not been a doctor, I would have explained the substance of this provision in a way that may have been a little detached from the legal language, then I would have said this: this provision is a case where a medical assistant issues a medical certificate in a situation where any of these elements are missing. I mean. e.g. the patient did not go to the doctor at all or went to the doctor, but there was no element in the form of either a direct examination of the insured person or an appropriate note in the medical records. In other words, it is a kind of abuse of trust that I mentioned by a person who has been authorized by a doctor to issue certificates of incapacity for work. He also appeared here, in the senator's question, a matter of responsibility. In general, the assumption is this: I agree with that. The doctor is responsible to a large extent. To a large extent, the doctor is responsible. One can say that we are dealing with such a classic culpa in eligendo construction, i.e. The guilt of choice. The element, let's say, trust is very important here, but it also involves responsibility. If a doctor authorizes the issuing of a medical certificate to a person to whom, say, he should not have confidence, he makes the wrong choice as to the indication of such a person, then the consequence of making that mistake. It is still necessary to read Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) [[Voice from the room: Assistant.]] No, not an assistant. Because the ZUS doesn't authorize an assistant. The assistant's authorization shall be given by a doctor. And what connects the doctor to the Social Insurance Institution is a legal relationship resulting from the fact that the doctor is authorized to issue decisions on incapacity for work. Of course, this does not mean that the assistant will not be held responsible, but she will be based on different principles. It could be civil liability, e.g. when the damage was caused I don't think there's going to be much of a case like this. Or even criminal liability, when a criminal act is committed, e.g. falsifying documents. However, the medical certificate or certificate of incapacity for work, even if it is issued electronically, shall have the value of the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u190	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u191	Excuse me, I think it's gonna be... It's about art. 1 and inserted Article. 54a. As I understand it, there's a mechanism here that the doctor is issuing a medical certificate. The competent doctor, of course, with an information profile, then, under the authority of the auxiliary staff. Right? So there will be 2 certificates: one will be a medical certificate, I suspect, in the internal circuit, and the other will be an external certificate, which is written on the basis of a doctor's authorization. Am I right? [[Voice in the room: Medical records...]] [[Voice from the room: Wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u192	At the beginning of my speech I was appealing for the precision of the language, because it is very important here. The doctor will give, as has been the case so far, a ruling on incapacity for work, a ruling... [[Yes, the certificate...]] No, not a certificate, just a judgment, a judgment on incapacity for work. [[Medical records...]] The fact that a decision on incapacity for work is given will be documented in the medical records. And the medical assistant will issue a certificate of incapacity for work. He issued a certificate, which means he will, you can say, have done some technical work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u193	Thank you very much. No more questions. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak. Mr. Senator, did you sign up for the discussion? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It would appear that in this case there is full agreement on the need to inform the conduct of the process of issuing sick leave, involving not only health care institutions but also employers. What was actually such a difficult matter at the moment is notification... It's a process that clears things up. And it would seem that this law is in fact merely a continuation of what I remember, and sources should be seen in the protest of doctors who demanded that the activities of doctors be re-bureaucratized, freed them from bureaucratic activities. And given that computerization is still entering, it would seem that this process is very logical and harmonious, but unfortunately... It is true that there is indeed the consent of the social partners, but perhaps because the latter law, which is the continuation of the first law, has been poorly analysed or read in relation to the effects. This has already been the case at this meeting of the committee where the Minister, finally an expert on labour law, clearly explained that the result of this law is a change in employment contracts and I pay, because the work comes with responsibilities. I do not know how much these responsibilities will be extended, but I can already realise today, and I realise that if the social problem of doctors was that they were too burdened with bureaucratic activities, it will certainly also be the problem of auxiliary staff, different medical professions, when they are handed over to them as part of their duties. Moreover, this law creates something that is not simply mentioned, but it can be concluded that it is a derivative. I'm sure we on the committee couldn't understand that. The bill says it's the doctor who conducts and decrees the authorizations. The doctor is here in the role of, say, the ruler; it is he who passes the authorization, it is he who withdraws the authorization. But not every doctor is an employer, I'll tell you more, not many doctors are employers. It's not the doctor who makes the employment contracts, and I'm paying. Contracts are made by the entrepreneur, sometimes by the owner, but above all by the employer. And he is the one who, following the doctor's request, the intention of the doctor, or actually the doctor, will have to change his employment contracts accordingly. And here comes the first doubt and the first and only polemic with the Minister as a trade unionist. It is said that this is an individual matter, that the employer can do so and that it may result in the failure to adopt this new agreement on working conditions, which changes working conditions. And I am saying that this is not true, because what the Minister has defended, that this is an individual matter between the employer and the employee, is not a matter of local action, because it is the legislator who imposes the obligation to carry out such a process. And if so, then we have to negotiate where there are collective agreements and even to make these collective agreements. Besides, this agreement, which was the origin of the uprising, was also a form of law, because the strike ended with the agreement created the source of the law. And on the basis of this source of law, we are making these changes. But, of course, in this sensitive medical environment, especially the nurses, it will give rise to tension, although perhaps not directly and not only to this tension... But it will give birth as an additional argument for the salary increases of all staff, as you said, possibly involving 300,000 people. But the Minister says there's full freedom, freeness of action. Well, how can you say... If the doctor points out the person and she doesn't do it, we're not gonna solve this agreement because the doctors won't be able to carry out their will, especially in those facilities where there's very little staff. In addition to the discussion, the question remains: where will companies take funds for the execution of a state order? Because it's a state order, and we believe it's the right thing to do. It is therefore created in a workplace, in a health facility, with a legal personality, of course, a Bermuda triangle, where we have a doctor, as a part of the interest of transferring bureaucratic activities to medical staff, we have an employer who does not necessarily have to sanction the doctor's request or vice versa, may pressure the auxiliary staff to accept this task, and finally we have those who have this authority to take over. It's a triangle. So the situation is even more complicated than the two sides. So there's no full-time voluntary here. There'll be extortion. And, uh... What I emphasized The authorisation shall be for a period of not more than 12 months, as written. What does that mean? That every 12 months we're gonna have to do a search. Of course, it is possible to extend, but the situation on the labour market is variable and we, trade unionists, are not surprised that at some point employers are reducing benefits and at some point ♪ Just like this is happening now ♪ The employees increase their value in terms of demands. And here we are creating an excuse to make changes every 12 months, except for all the cases that even the Minister has said fairly well that they can take place during these 12 months, because this doctor will change, and that will lose confidence, and this will be a different order in a given clinic, hospital or private facility. And for this reason, the Civic Platform, although interested in introducing this process, cannot accept responsibility for the defective written contract, for the defective consumption of the agreement with young doctors 'Cause, I guess, that's what happened. In particular, for the fact that these responsibilities are unilaterally shifted without the appropriate, as I said, negotiating additional resources for the implementation of this law. The second point, which was the subject of the committee's work, was that, unexpectedly, the original spirit of the law, which was to put the issue of L4 in order, was extended to the issues of the functioning of health services in general and, as the Minister said, universally, i.e. the imposition of tasks and the allocation of resources for the performance of health care tasks as such, not only for the discharge of orders, because this is a minor matter... And in this law, in the article. 4, it has been pointed out that, of course, the Social Security Office will charge a higher rate for the operation of all these activities, but rightly the government, the competent minister, is designated as the one who is to finance such IT tasks in the healthcare sector. A very good point, except that there are pharmacys, pharmacys that carry out medical certificates already understood not only as writing L4, it is obvious that they do not implement this, but they implement any other recipes that are not related to L4, as this article on co-financing does not have to do with L4. Therefore, at the meeting of the Pharmacy Committee, they raised objections and reported that they had been omitted. The atmosphere was that their allegations were hit, but the argument was that it wasn't in this bill. But the Minister didn't answer me how he was going to do it. Maybe in the near future and with another legal instrument. And if so, he did not persuade me to vote directly in favour of this bill, but he certainly persuaded me to make an amendment, and it will depend on whether the Civic Platform votes in favour or takes a different position. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that items 9th, 10th and 11th agenda will be discussed on the second day of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January - June 2018 (the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is contained in print No 905. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission examined the information at its meeting on 25 September 2018 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the sitting Mr Konrad Szymański, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present to you once again information about Poland's participation in the work of the European Union during the next 6 months, this time during the Presidency of the Bulgarian Presidency. Bulgaria has decided to divide its activities during the Presidency into 4 segments: economic growth and social cohesion, the European perspective for the Western Balkans, security and stability, and the digital economy and skills of the future, which have also affected the wider common market. With regard to the latter element, it should be noted with satisfaction that, with the general Polish involvement, also politically, we have made significant progress in speeding up legislative work on the Digital Single Market package during the Bulgarian 6 months in the European Union, in particular as regards rules governing access to non-personal data, which are a very important element for the development of the digital economy, including regulatory rules, investment rules for the development of the 5G network, and cooperation in research on artificial intelligence. As far as the rest of the market agenda is concerned, this situation was no longer so good. Poland, with a large group of countries, strongly supported efforts to accelerate the reform and completion of the service market. The relatively modest initiative of the European Commission, which is a service package aimed, of course, at reducing administrative burdens and reducing barriers to the Community market, has been met by a sufficiently large group of countries. This led to an impasse in the work on, as I say, a modest initiative that should be adopted as soon as possible. The same is true of the freight package. It is similar in this case to trade in goods, trading in goods. Here, too, we are concerned about the impasse of work on an initiative which should not, in particular, 25 years after the creation of the common market, raises any doubts. This goes hand in hand with poor decisions on the legal regime for posted workers, which has also taken place during these six months, shows that there is very serious protectionist pressure in the European Union that Member States The founding countries of the European Communities are also very often going into a phase of undermining the sense of the common market, which creates a very serious political barrier to the development of this successful integration EU project. Poland has a very proactive position in all these matters. It takes a position in favour of the common market, not only to avoid protectionist action at both EU and Member State level, but in particular to adopt regulations that would allow the completion of the common market, especially where it is extremely late. I'm talking about the services market. Another aspect of market-based legislation, but above all the consequences of a strategic nature, is the fate of the so-called. a gas directive to clarify the application of Community market rules, and in particular the third legislative package, to investment in gas infrastructure. It clearly concerns in particular one, extremely crucial for the future of the gas market in Europe, which is to take place near the Polish borders. As a general rule, the European Commission's legislative initiative, which responded to the Polish call on this issue, was intended to clarify the rules of the common market in relation to those elements of infrastructure which, in some part of their own, and perhaps even to a large extent, remain outside the economic zone or outside the direct jurisdiction of the European Union. This under no circumstances, as with other network investments, cannot imply the non-application of EU law rules, because for this one investment, ♪ I mean ♪ Nord Stream II of course We are dealing with an investment, the whole of which is directed towards the impact on the Community market. This investment has no meaning other than the one connected with the operation of the common market, therefore in the Polish view, as well as a much wider group of countries I must say that in this case we have managed to mobilise 14 countries that share our position It is clear that this investment should be covered by EU legislation. Resisting this decision shows how many countries Even recalling often and willingly integrationist rhetoric, it is inclined to weaken the importance of the European Union, to lead to a situation where the European Union is looking in a different direction than where it should be doing, it ceases to enforce its law precisely in an area where the EU's competences are undeniable. There are cases where EU competence raises controversy, doubts At that time we are dealing with quite proactive action by the European Commission But in this case there is no doubt that this is an EU competence. And it so happens that, with the accompaniment of the most pro-European countries, it turns out that the conclusion is that the European Union's inactive attitude is to look away from this problem, which can bring Europe quite strategic, far beyond the logic of the common market consequences. The second important point I would like to draw your attention to is security and stability, and what lies behind this motto formed by the Bulgarian Presidency. From our point of view, there were two elements of the most crucial importance. The first is, of course, a compromise planned in accordance with the earlier provisions of the European Council on the reform of the Community system, the asylum system and immigration policy. The idea was that the compromise would be shaped and even put into effect by the end of June, the end of the Bulgarian Presidency. This could not be done due to the fact that for many months on the working level there were still ideas that were unacceptable by the Polish government. However, there was something to appreciate. The deadline for implementing the compromise was revised in June, but it was also adopted for the first time entirely groundbreaking provisions of the European Council, which show that the possible compromise on migration and asylum in the European Union will be based on the principles that the Polish government has promoted for almost the last three years. Without Polish determination on this issue, we would not have a compromise, which today gives us a very important opportunity. I am not saying that this is a complete matter because the compromise requires implementation, but at least there is a chance that the Union on migration will work together to base migration and asylum policy on the rules and principles that we have referred to and promoted from the very beginning of our governments. Firstly, it is a distinction between economic and economic migration and refugee movement. Secondly, it is about taking active action towards third countries, in particular in North Africa, in order to jointly slow down the migratory wave. It has its operational significance. I am talking about designing control centres for countries that already have a problem with excessive immigration, in particular irregular over-immigration, and the creation of landing platforms. By translating this quite literally into Polish, I will say that it can only be done by cooperation with third countries. In this case, we see some movement, some progress. Since the adoption of groundbreaking June conclusions, much has happened in terms of designing cooperation in this area with Egypt. The most important thing is, of course, to strengthen the protection of external borders. We are also making clear progress in this area. Poland emphasizes that we are ready to take action not only regulatory but also actual. This is a kind of contribution that we have been passing on to the European Union from the very beginning of our membership. I'm talking about protecting the eastern external border we're responsible for. This is one of the longest sections of the European Union's external border. We are open to a discussion on strengthening the mandate of Frontex, which is based in Warsaw. However, we note, like other countries that are responsible for the external borders, that this kind of reinforcement must clearly meet the needs of countries that actually manage the external borders. All of this must be adapted to the expectations of countries that are sort of at the front line of this problem. In view of the potentially far-reaching financial consequences, this must also be included in the overall horizontal agreement on how the European Union's multiannual budget will look. Such decisions it cannot be taken until a comprehensive compromise on the budget has been reached, because the sums that may be generated by such arrangements are invaluable and in fact it will be very difficult to put them into the logic of the new multiannual financial framework, given that a large number of countries, unlike Poland, are emphasising the inability to increase their contribution to the EU budget. This is happening with completely pro-European rhetoric, which seems quite paradoxical, because the state knows it best because it adopts the country's budget You can't do more things and you can't do more ambitious things without more money. Such dependence is quite obvious to anyone who has adopted any budget, whether it was the budget of a municipality, country or international organisation. Unfortunately, this logic does not break through in the European Union. We hear all the time that we need to do more, but at the same time we do not offer any new resources. And that, of course, cannot work. The second topic of the Security Agenda during the Bulgarian Presidency was the question of strengthening the security policy, the European Union's defence policy. Two things deserve attention here. The first is the European development agenda for the defence industry. Poland pointed out that this programme, in particular in the context of potentially higher money in the next financial framework, must be fully accessible to all countries wishing to develop the defence industry, in particular it must be accessible to countries where the defence industry is built in a similar way as the defence industry in Poland. This is about the scale of enterprises, the type of organisation of this sector. The second point that I have highlighted in the political forum is the need to ensure complementarity of commitments in this area with those already made by an excellent majority of countries, if not all countries that play an important role in the European Union's defence policy, complementarity with those that are appropriate for NATO membership. It is impossible to imagine, with very limited resources, building a European defence policy, abstracting from what is here and now, from the concreteness of the defence architecture of the Western world, in particular of Europe, the architecture that is represented especially by NATO. At that time Poland significantly expanded its participation in the PESCO initiative, i.e. in the initiative of enhanced cooperation in the field of defence industry. Today we are participating in 6 initiatives, 6 PESCO programmes and this activity is expected to be developed. Another issue related to the topic I mentioned, the subject of the budget, was, of course, generally understood by economic growth and cohesion. Here are two elements I would like to draw attention to. The first is to continue work on the reform of the Economic and Monetary Union, notably by strengthening the European Stability Mechanism, and work on completing the Banking Union. Poland stressed in this work In fact, two important systemic postulates. Firstly, she drew attention to the openness of this process to countries which, for the time being, and perhaps in the future, will not be members of the Economic and Monetary Union, will not be members of the euro area. Secondly, regardless of how we see Poland's future in the Economic and Monetary Union, it is vital for us that the reform of the Economic and Monetary Union does not generate divisions in the common market. The single market is a much wider space than the monetary union and we see no added value I'm sure there's no need for that. In order to ensure that the reform of EMU results in any tensions in the common market, the main advantage of which is that it is a large, large and large common market. The second point was, of course, the beginning of the debate on the multiannual financial framework. Under the Bulgarian Presidency, the European Commission has decided to present the first draft multiannual financial framework. They have already been discussed many times in the Polish Parliament, but I will draw attention to one key issue. Contrary to the preparatory work to announce these projects, where it was not only a question of bilateral talks, the European Commission, as Poland expected, assumed that the new ambitious objectives of the European Union would be 80%. financed by new money, and only 20% as a result of the transfer of existing money, within the framework of the existing multiannual budget structure, the project presented to us, in particular in a layer of methodology, shows something very different. The initial assumption, the political assumption that followed the work leading up to the announcement of this project, has been changed, which means that such a project as it is presented by the European Commission will certainly not enter into force. That's what I can say for sure. I do not always share with you the certainty about such complex, so long-term processes, but on this matter one can be sure: this project will not enter into force, precisely because of its unbalanced nature. From the beginning Poland stressed that we are fully aware of the budgetary consequences of brexitu. It's an objective change, very negative, but it's just a matter of fact. We have stressed that we are willing to talk about financing new challenges, particularly in terms of defence and migration, because we see the sense that the European Union should be more resistant to these problems. As far as security is concerned, we have our own expectations of strengthening the security architecture and we do not see any obstacles for the European Union to do more on this issue. However, this must be done in an evolutionary manner. It cannot be imagined that the new challenges are financed as a result of simple transfers from Treaty policies. Cohesion and agricultural policies are not coincidentally Treaty policies because they are vehicles of the fundamental objective of integration, which is socio-economic convergence. This convergence in Poland, in Central Europe is very dynamic, we can be proud of it. But the fact that today's social and economic indicators of Poland are much better than at the beginning of membership does not mean that this convergence is over. On the contrary, all the time Poland and Central Europe are the places where we are dealing with the poorest regions. Therefore, while recognising the argument that convergence has been successful, I would point out that it is not finished, and that the fact that it is successful, with which no one is arguing, is the best proof that, in particular, cohesion policy has the expected effect, because cohesion policy is certainly Not only is it not the only instrument of development, and this instrument will certainly play an increasingly less and less role, but also contributes to the objective of fundamental integration of equalising the socio-economic level of the Member States, both at national and regional level. The last issue, which was very important, for obvious reasons, for geographical reasons, for the Bulgarian Presidency, is a European perspective for the Western Balkans. Poland, of course, is much further away from this region, but for a very long time we have been active in this part of Europe, recognising that it is strategically consistent with the Polish security objectives. The Western Balkans division without an active presence, a serious, unconfirmed presence of the European Union in this part of the world will simply be the place of influence of other competitive, sometimes even the opening up of hostile political forces. This is the reason why we encouraged the European Union and the partners in the Council to adopt enlargement conclusions much more ambitious than those adopted, although the fact that enlargement conclusions were adopted in June is already a success and we appreciate that. A year ago we were in a much worse position, the conclusions could not be adopted due to political circumstances in one of the Member States. Today's conclusions could be more ambitious, but they are also a success. The European Union Summit should be considered a breakthrough The Western Balkans, which after 15 years first took place at such a high level. This shows the degree, scale of the European Union's absenteeism in recent years in this part of the world, which opened the door, as I say, to other competitive, sometimes even hostile global forces to this very sensitive, very sensitive part of Europe. We assume further activation of Polish policy in this area. The Bulgarian Presidency has been successful in this respect, and it has certainly been a period of significant progress in this area. The expression of this commitment is bilateral visits, among others. Minister Jack Chaputowicz in Skopje, Belgrade, Tirana recently activated the enlargement academy, which serves to share our enlargement experience with countries in the Western Balkans. Of course, this will be crowned by the Polish Presidency in the Berlin Process, which will soon take place. In 2019 we will have a summit of the Berlin Process in Poland with the participation of the main countries of the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans. We would like this to be another step in the spirit of the summit, in the spirit of the Commission's communication, finally in the spirit of the conclusions of the General Affairs Council on enlargement, so that, in short, Europe is more active there, because the lack of activity is at the expense of our economic interests and our security interests. These are the most important things that I would have noticed in this six-month period. You have a detailed report in your senate print. If you have any questions, of course I would like to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about this information? You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Could you zoom in a little bit, please? for us the issue of the post-2020 financial framework? The Minister has declared that it is as if this fitting, consisting of some budget breakdown, will not enter into force, but I am interested in a matter. Could the Minister give us the amount we are talking about when it comes to reducing the Union's budget due to the UK's exit? Secondly, can you give some approximate values in this new framework after 2020, which we as Poland can count on in terms of the main trends of support, i.e. cohesion programme or agricultural policy, or others on which the Minister could quote data to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u199	I'll try to answer each question. Yes, the problem of the entire budget, not only its internal structure but the whole budget, is the fact that the European Commission has proposed a budget in relation to the GDP of the Member States simply smaller, objectively smaller. This is an unprecedented situation, because this budget is presented to us as a larger budget, but only because of the statistical game, the juggling of fixed prices and variable prices, which is always extremely useful when we talk about multiannual budgets, but it does not explain much, because it is very easy to see how it looks in practice. And if we compared the multiannual financial framework currently in force, but compared it adequately, that is to say, they removed the UK and added the European Development Fund, which is attached to this draft budget that we are dealing with, we would have a result of 1.16%. EU GDP, EU 27. For this project, this indicator is 1.11%. It does not appear to be any dramatically different figures, but in the case of such a huge parameter, which is the GDP of the European Union, these are important changes which really prevent such an ambitious shift of emphasis towards the so-called. new objectives, as expected by the European Commission. Moreover, from a political point of view, Poland is as willing as possible to proceed on this budget as soon as possible. The European Commission expects Member States to close budgetary negotiations before the Sibina Summit in mid- 2019, but this project is extremely disturbing because it causes resistance to a very large group of countries which are affected by such disproportionate proposals. The European Commission has not helped itself to achieve the political objective of quickly closing budgetary negotiations. Poland will not create any obstacles to do so quickly, but the key criterion is simply the quality of the compromise. And in this respect, I think, from the very beginning, the speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki at the first European Council, when these projects were presented, was extremely constructive. We are ready to raise the contribution, of course, if agreed political objectives and expenditure areas are agreed. We are ready to talk about the European Union's own resources so that this budget is better powered. We are ready to talk evolutionaryly about the new needs of the European Union, but we absolutely reject the logic of a revolutionary collapse in the financing of policies that have brought success to the Union and many countries. In this sense, as regards the question of the size of the budget, we are dealing with a draft budget which is less than the current budget. [[Excuse me, may I ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u200	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u201	Minister, if you may ask, if you remember, and if you do not, maybe in writing... As for the assumptions, I understand that, as the Minister said, the budget in the new financial framework in terms of volume to GDP is smaller. And in absolute numbers? Do you remember possible issues of reduction? And what concerns the most important policies for Poland, such as cohesion policy and agricultural policy. Can we count on comparable amounts here or much less? Do you remember any amounts? Well, that's the thing that would show what the Minister was talking about, also in terms of numbers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u202	As far as the final outcome of the negotiations is concerned, I can only talk about the assumptions with which we approach the negotiations. The fact that we say in all the forums that we are ready for an evolutionary approach to the budget is a real declaration. And we will be able to talk about absolute figures if we see the entire budget in all its dimensions, because it is easy to imagine compensation for losses in one part of the budget through significant changes in another part of the budget, compensation, which may even be more attractive than previously for the X country, such as Poland. So these are purely hypothetical actions. Hundreds of scenarios could be drawn here. In short, we want changes to be evolutionary in order not to be a rapid collapse in the financing of policies that have led to success in Poland and Europe, because cohesion money is not only present in our GDP, it may not even be primarily in our GDP. I am not just talking about the fact that, according to EU rules, all tenders are executed according to European open tender rules and a large part of this money returns to companies whose tax location is not necessarily Poland This is a matter of average importance. The most important thing is that the economies that are most commercially integrated with Central Europe, not only with Poland, are gaining convergence in such a way that we buy more goods and services there, which I would say very often too often. They are offered from other countries of the European Union. The sense of the common market and the funds compensating for the opening up of the market is obvious here, is visible to the naked eye. These flows are visible in the GDP of the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark or countries which today are most demanding cuts. They need to see perfectly how their GDP grows, how they grow. We're adding to their GDP, not just ours. It is therefore absurd to present agricultural policy or cohesion policy as one-sided aid policies. This could be the case if not for the common market, but they are closely linked to the common market.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u203	Mr. Marshal, just one brief question, if you'll excuse me. Really. I will refer only to what the Minister has said. It's not gonna be anything new. Minister, I think everyone in this room understands the mechanisms that you spoke about, but thank you for giving us this information. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Would the Minister please pass the... Of course, I'm talking about trimmings. I'm not talking about the final budget. It's the Cohesion Fund. In absolute numbers... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: What is the negotiating objective?]] Has there been any first proposal, or hasn't it, as far as the budget is concerned?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u204	Proposals have been made to show how cohesion policy will be shaped. It's in the papers. I can only say one thing: we will not accept such a proposal. That's all. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...]] This proposal will not enter into force. I think it's very clear. [[I understand that, but to support the Minister in this protest, we'd like to...]] No. Not in protest...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u206	I have some similar questions about the financial framework. As we look at the details of this proposal, we will see that there are a lot of records there, I would say dangerous for the existing beneficiaries of the Cohesion Fund. It's 20%. reserve held in the hands of the European Commission, converting rule n+3 to rule n+2 and another definition of eligible costs. And above all, that the Cohesion Fund is limited by transferring money to new projects related to innovation in science and migration. Here's my question. Is this, according to the Minister, a negotiating method for the European Commission? We're putting hard stuff in here technically, and we're able to get out of it, but you guys just accept that you're not getting the money from the Cohesion Fund, which we think we deserve. That's the first question. Two. How intensive Polish diplomacy works for... Everything I have mentioned is unfavorable not only for Poland, but also Unfortunately, the division between the old and the new Europe is coming back. For a new Europe. How much chance is there of a block? And questioning. How far can arbitrary decisions be made at the level of the European Commission? An example: in the course of the negotiations, there is a solution that is unfavorable for the X state, and the point is that the X state should accept it, so it is said that we will build you a motorway between Plovdiv and Great Tyrnów, just vote for it. Are such mechanisms, concerning arbitrary decisions, i.e. the conviction of a country, that it would break out of the solidarity framework of smaller countries... How far is that possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u207	We have extensive experience in negotiating the current multiannual financial framework. The strength of our region is that there are a lot of countries... Poland has recreated a group of friends of cohesion policy. There are still 16, 17 countries that believe that this element of policy and mandate is a common element. This looks very good. But it is also true that in the case of smaller economies, the mechanism for small transfers Small for Polish conditions, because they are not small with lower GDP of the smaller country It's always worked. It was always, from the very beginning of membership, one of the elements that caused weakness. I think this mechanism also worked during accession. It has led to a dispersal of coalitions of countries that would certainly gain more if they had the ability to maintain unity longer. In fact, for every coalition, we only talk about how long we can keep it. This is an unknown matter, because of course the emancipation processes of this part Europe follows, they are visible to the naked eye in many political processes. However, one of the most important challenges is certainly: how to maintain unity in these coalitions despite the fact that the problems of the MFF in some other countries are much smaller in nature and can actually be solved by very simple concessions, very small in nature concessions. Let us remember that the whole process is today, from May, in the hands of the Member States. The European Commission will play an important supporting role, perhaps at the end of the transition, but today it will be up to the Member States to decide what rhythm and how this process will take place. Poland has been preparing for this process for almost 3 years. From the very beginning I remember my work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we created an inter-ministerial team that meant not only Polish interests, but also potential scenarios for the development of accidents in terms of negotiations from point X, i.e. since the presentation, formal presentation of projects... I think we're very well prepared for this. And of course I can only confirm that allocations, such rigid allocations, this is just one of the areas that is subject to... She's the easiest to grasp, but this is just one area of negotiation, a field of negotiation. The second is, of course, the absorption rules, which can have a very different impact on the ability of countries to obtain acceptance for a particular version of the budget. And these absorption rules that the senator mentioned, the reserve, rule n+2, the eligible costs, are certainly the things that are at the heart of this part of the negotiations. The common denominator of this proposal You probably shouldn't be too surprised. The fact is that the European Commission clearly sees this budget as much more centralised. And here we have again an important political problem at national level, because the experience with these funds, which have so far been centrally managed, is very different. There are insufficient guarantees, at least from a Polish point of view, of fair distribution of money managed from headquarters level, from Brussels level, to recognise that such easy transfer of quite large sums to central level will not cause controversy. That's controversial, too. Of course, in all these cases I am not only talking about the position of Poland, but about the position quite broad A variable but wide It's a group of countries. During these three years, we have adopted common positions in wider or narrower groups of countries, but always in coalitions, in all the most important aspects. I mean the structure of the MFF, the future of cohesion policy and the future of agricultural policy, because these 3 elements are the most readable at political level. We are therefore entering these negotiations in good condition, and the nature of this coalition is that it is not to be expected that someone for us will overcome the greatest difficulties in these negotiations. Poland has, I think, a very large share of responsibility for this, and the Polish determination on this issue will play a key role. I think there's no doubt about her today. Some complain that Polish determination is too visible in the EU process, so we will use this brand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u208	Senator Alicia Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u209	Thank you very much. Minister, I want to thank you very much for this clear way of talking about difficult matters, because even for those who do not deal with these problems on a daily basis, as we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, everything you present is very clear. However, this also caused some anxiety. You used that term... You have talked about the protectionist pressure of some countries, including the fact that the Union ceases to enforce its law in certain areas of action. Do you believe that the acceleration of the enlargement process, among other things. e.g. about the Western Balkans or other countries waiting, could it give such a new impetus? You were talking about those coalitions we're creating depending on the case they're dealing with. Would this acceleration help us, or would it give us strength on this side, so to speak, non-protectionist states, or this new Union? Would that give us strength, or do we need to stop these processes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u210	I think that today these political processes which I mentioned, which reveal the problem of protectionism, the problem of mistrust of the rules of the common market, clearly show that without Poland, a clear opposition camp could not be created. We are one step away from a situation in which Britain will be missing in this camp and it has traditionally played the role of a country extremely sensitive on the basis of the rules and principles of the common market. So it's gonna be a weakening of this coalition. This means that for many months the diplomacy of countries, in particular northern countries, which have traditionally been more attached to the rules of the common market, have been thinking about how this lack of compensation can be achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u212	Minister, first of all, the sentence of polemics. I do not share your view that Poland is preparing well for negotiations on the budget and that this determination, which should serve Poland, serves Poland. The determination can indeed be seen, but in destroying the position of Poland and negotiating opportunities, great determination. And that's what I have three questions about. The first concerns Frontex. If we really want to be effective in combating uncontrolled immigration into the European Union, it is necessary to strengthen this institution. What is our attitude towards creating? Do you really take into account the needs of individual countries, the border police, the European border police? The second question concerns monetary union and its reform. From the descriptions we know that the euro area countries want to build their own budget. I'd ask you to take this into account. How real is that? And will this be carried out at the expense of the European Union budget, or will this be carried out alongside? And the third question is really a question of this project. Some significant countries... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. Some major countries are demanding Italy is the loudest To move money transferred so far to countries that are not jointly and severally involved in solving the immigration problem and do not accept immigrants. And, of course, in the first row, the example of Poland falls here. What's the connection? Tell me if it's visible in the project or... How much speculation are these, and how much concrete adjustments are there for those countries that do not participate jointly and severally in solving immigration problems, some of the money simply pick up and allocate them to this purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u213	I have repeatedly stressed that Poland shares the belief that the European Union could do more with regard to immigration. And here there is no controversy, and there is no choice: either one or the other. However, we note that if the European Union wants to add to its activities, competences, missions, it must find money for it. But the simple method of throwing that money out of other politicians, the treaty, is simply unrealistic. I don't know how to put it more simply. It is simply separate from the political circumstances, from the political realities of the European Union. And for months, we've been warning you that this method isn't gonna work. I think anyone who's a little closer to this process in Europe knows that this is just a bad idea. As far as the euro area budget is concerned, I can say briefly that this is an unrealistic perspective. The euro area budget will not arise. We have a lot of political noise around this case, because this is an attractive topic. This topic, perhaps not so spectacularly, but has been living for many, many years, because for many countries, especially those with debt problems, the euro area budget, which would promise, generate significant transfers related to the stability of the euro area, would be a salvage, in particular if it were free of macroeconomic conditionality. But that's why he won't rise. Because there are no countries that would gladly agree to spend even much less money than those that are spent on the EU budget, in such a way as to build up the potential for transfers to the economies of the euro area that are in difficulties with private or public debt. The loudest moment in this discussion was, of course, the declaration from Meseberg, French-German, which announced actions, also such more working documents. They did not appear, but 3 days after this declaration appeared a joint list of finance ministers of 8 euro area countries Poland did not get involved in this, being a non-euro area country of 8 northern Member States, which clearly said that no such request could go because they did not see the possibility of adding a contribution, apart from the EU contribution, to any financial instrument of scale that would allow us to talk about it as a budget. Because, of course, on small scale instruments . such as the reform support instrument that is included in the EU budget It can probably be allowed, only that it is a scale that does not in any way meet the public finance challenges that we face in particular for a few countries in the South. So I can say with all responsibility that the euro area budget simply will not arise. As far as Frontex is concerned, I have also tried to put forward a position that says that, of course, we see reasons to think about strengthening Frontex. It was this government that caused the future of the Frontex agency in Warsaw to be stabilized after unprecedented delays, almost 10-year-olds, our predecessors. We did it very quickly, immediately after we took over. We have signed an international investment agreement which makes Frontex the largest EU agency soon to be guaranteed a good, comfortable place of development in Warsaw. In 2016, we still decided to strengthen Even then, immediately after the first phase of the crisis The mandate of the Frontex agency. This ticket is stronger today than it was at the start of the agency. Poland was one of the active participants in the negotiations on this issue, the negotiations which brought some adjustment to the initial proposals of the European Commission. A similar mechanism is to be expected today. I do not question the point of strengthening Frontex also with a view to possibly significantly strengthening its technical, personnel capacity, but we say that at least two steps are needed. Firstly, listening to the needs of countries that are responsible for external borders every day, today, here and now, because they know what is missing and what really European needs are. Secondly, I think it is quite clear that if decisions generate potential financial burdens, they must be included in the multiannual financial framework. We cannot accept by promotion the decisions that will freeze any part of us, an important part, but we are talking here about... The cumulative cost of the Commission's proposal, these 3 Frontex proposals, the asylum office and strengthening the return policy is over EUR 21 billion. Well, it's not a small amount of money anymore, so we can't afford to freeze that amount of money before the MFF agreement is closed from A to Z. These are only particles, essential conditions of the Polish position. However, we are open to discussions on this issue because I am convinced that Europe could do more for both security and migration, and Frontex is an institution that can play such a role.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u214	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u215	Minister, in this comprehensive report for the first six months of this year, you have not said anything about the dispute between the government and the European Commission on the Polish rule of law, and in the meantime it is not only a thread that attracted a lot of attention, but also a matter that led to a significant weakening of Poland among its partners from the European Union and in the international forum. And one of... We were witnesses and participants of these events, because in the first half of this year, and later in July in this room there was another ruin of the Polish justice system due to the parliamentary majority. The government defended the position of the parliamentary majority. The government also presented its position in Brussels and talked about the necessary compromise all the time, but we never learned what this compromise on the part of the government would depend on. I am very interested in what were the elements of this position that the government presented in Brussels. If you could count them and present them, I'd be very obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u216	The written form also, the position on the dispute over the application of the rule of law in relation to the reform of justice in Poland is available on the MFA website, so I will not refer to it now. These are extremely extensive documents, because our position is fairly retail. All the time, from the very beginning of this process, we encouraged everyone to talk about concrete facts and not about very general ideas about breaking the rule of law in Poland. I did not actually mention this because this matter was in no way part of the Bulgarian Presidency's programme. This case is an incident that comes back to us, and he'll probably be coming back for a while. The only thing I can talk about in the context of the Presidency's actions, that is, in the context of the Council's actions, because this issue is taking place on very many levels... There is Parliament and sometimes there are spectacular rhetorical expressions in this matter, there is the European Commission, with which we have been in contact for a very long time, there is finally the Council, there is the Court. These are completely different, to a large extent independent elements of this dispute. As far as the Council is concerned, for the contacts with which I am responsible, all I can say is that, under the Bulgarian Presidency, we had the opportunity to present our position. I was impressed by the good and positive impression that the discussion in the Council, which took place behind closed doors, was extremely factual and concrete. This is not a rule in the case of discussions on this subject. I also saw a lot of discussions in the Polish Sejm, which differed from this standard, one can say, European standard Well, some people like to use that term. This discussion did not bring conclusions, nor did another discussion on this issue in October bring conclusions. The General Affairs Council today does not have a majority of countries that would be able to adopt any negative position on Poland. So much for that. I think that's relatively little, but of course this case will probably have a follow-up, which we are obviously prepared for. What I can say in the context of the Polish Parliament is that the Polish position in the eyes of the Member States was certainly reinforced by the adoption of 2 sets of corrections to the broader reform of justice The State was also involved, for which I would like to thank Because showing such a constructive attitude on the Polish side has certainly strengthened our credibility in the eyes of the countries. It is a pity that this has not brought any movement on the Commission's side, but it is not my concern to assess how the Commission is building its accounts on this matter. But this led to the fact that, when a certain possibility was created for a mild conclusion of the case, the non-confrontational conclusion of the case was simply not taken advantage of. I'm sorry about that, but we can only accept that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u217	Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u218	I'm going on with Senator Klich's question. There has been a shift in the case, which is now moving it to the Court of Justice of the European Union. And I'm reading art. 1 of the Charter Protocol: the Charter does not extend the capacity of the Court of Justice to Poland and the United Kingdom, in particular and in order to avoid any doubt about anything contained in Title IV of the Charter, it does not create rights which may be prosecuted, applicable to Poland or the United Kingdom. And art. 2: Where a provision of the Charter refers to national laws and practices, it shall apply to Poland or the United Kingdom only to the extent that the rights and principles contained in that provision are recognised by the laws or practices of Poland or the United Kingdom. I am not a lawyer, but I understand that it was negotiated, probably for a completely different purpose, the opt-out rule, negotiated a few years ago on the occasion of the Treaty of Lisbon. As I understand it, the translation into a tribunal of justice was made on the basis of completely different rules, such as I would say, generally legitimate. The analogy is that, as far as I know, the Danes have this opt-out rule about not selling their holiday homes on Jutland to other citizens, afraid of demographics... well, the strength of a big neighbor. If this opt-out rule had been deleted... All citizens of the European Union have the same rights and therefore the Danes would have to sell these houses. Is it a little similar to the situation in which we are being tried to stand up to the tribunal of justice? Because I think that's contrary to what those two articles say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u219	I'm going to think about this analogy because using analogys is, I'd say, slippery ground. I don't know where she'd take me in a minute, so I'm gonna hold off on the analogy. But for some reason, the European Commission also referred to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in its pre-trial letters. And it certainly is so that so-called. The Polish-British protocol does not shape the opt-out so much, because it is the exclusion of the whole, which creates a very clear restriction on the application of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is only about the extent to which these rights were certified either by national legislation or by the Treaties. In that sense... That's why the first sentence says she doesn't expand... The point was not to treat the card in such a way that it constitutes anything. She's just confirming otherwise... I think it was political, because then I remember it well. Everyone wanted to maintain the life of this document at all. But it was put very strongly into the framework of existing concepts, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights, and we, being a little more sensitive to the background, say, of creative activity, including the European judiciary, which we may be able to see in a moment, have added this protocol, which is not so much shaping the opt-out, because it is too strong, which shows that there is a framework for its application. And this framework is that it can't be used if there's no ground somewhere else. Therefore, the Charter does not add value It doesn't introduce anything we don't already know on the basis of treaties or national legislation. How will the potential judgment in this case be dealt with? I think it's inevitable, though there's nothing for sure for the future. It will be very interesting from a purely legal point of view. I remember that at first it was said that the protocol was not of much importance precisely because it was written in a way that was incomprehensible to many. We'll see if it doesn't matter, because for some reason, the Commission has decided that it will not only refer to the article. 19 of the Treaty, which is its right, but also an article from the Charter of Fundamental Rights. What is unusual, at least at the level of pre-trial letters, is the fact that the European Commission neither in the case of... In the case of the Supreme Court, the Commission has not identified any breach of secondary law. It doesn't happen. This is an absolute novel, so that in the case of a complaint procedure it does not indicate a breach of any secondary law. I agree with the fact that we have not broken any secondary law, but when you go to court, you usually have this kind of treaty in your hand. Such a measure is not indicated here, while the cumulative effect of many changes, each of which is compatible with EU law, but together constitutes a threat, a cumulative threat to the general treaty rule. I will admit that this is extremely interesting from a purely legal point of view, politically interesting for us. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u220	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the time limits within which the multiannual financial framework should be adopted and in which it must be adopted. What these deadlines look like in the context of the end of the European Parliament's term of office, the elections are in May; with us on 26 May And the end of the European Commission's term of office, what will happen at the end of October next year? Shouldn't we just wait it out, call it the frustrations on the other side and start planning talks with the possible new political composition of the European Commission? Did you feel any pressure to speed up certain processes so that they could be completed in this term of office?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u222	Thank you very much. And I will now ask you to ask Senator Pociej's question. We'll ask the Minister for an answer later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u223	As I understand it, Mrs. Marshal, we're changing the procedure and we're gonna need some questions. Yes? [[Yes.]] Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have a question for you. Recently at the Salzburg Summit Poland was the only one, if I remember correctly, voted differently from other European countries. Yesterday or... I think I read that analysis yesterday. I think it's about Onet, maybe it was Virtual Poland. The fact that Poland and Ireland lose the most in Europe at their exit, the accelerated one, without agreement. I would like to ask the Minister to possibly refer to this thesis, whether it is true or not, and to say which direction and how we should negotiate, in the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the second question: was it really our vote, again in complete isolation, related to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u224	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u225	You know, it's very difficult to argue with the completely absurd opinions you read on one of the portals. I hope it's just a misunderstanding that no one was able to write such nonsense because there were no votes in Salzburg. It is very difficult to vote separately when there are no votes. So... it's hard to argue with the stupid things you write on the Internet. And I would encourage you, in a situation where we meet in the Senate and talk in the Senate, to check all the information in documents, in some more meaningful sources, because the Internet unfortunately encourages us to write anything. It's probably worth something. I don't want to criticize her. But that's just bullshit. The unity of the European Union, the EU27, on brexite is a prerequisite for this process. He's an elementalist. You can't do this trial alone, four of you, five of you. This process will be carried out by the EU27 or will not be carried out at all. So Poland is keenly interested in maintaining unity, because in fact Brexit probably means more to us than to many others. Not necessarily because of exposure to trade, because... those studies that are made, for example. by Cambridge Analytica, they're very static because they assume that... they don't refer to a potential alternative scenario. What do you mean there's no deal? Does that mean we have a WTO, or does that mean we have a sectoral agreement? If the agreement fails, it will be an accelerated process of searching for other agreements, probably no longer EU, but sectoral, not so broad. So it's very difficult for me to tell you who's gonna pay the most. It depends on the ability to adapt. We in the government started the process of raising awareness many months ago, in particular entrepreneurs. But we are also prepared for the fact that if these conversations break down I'm sure it's not because of us. We will, of course, try to mitigate losses. Those losses will be everywhere. This will in particular be losses for the UK, but they will also be on the EU side. To sum up... Because, as I understand it, the Senator's biggest concern was this possible breach of the unity of the Union. It doesn't make any sense. Breaking the unity of the Union in this matter has no effect on anyone. So...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u226	Minister, I didn't ask... It wasn't my biggest concern. My biggest concern, and my question to you, was whether you considered the Polish diplomacy and what is the position of the Polish diplomacy on this issue, that the smaller misfortune for Poland is the exit of Great Britain without agreement or agreement. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u227	Of course, we are passionately interested, I think we are one of the most active countries in this respect. That the agreement, which is very well negotiated by Michel Barnier's team on our behalf, survives ratification in Brussels and London. Without ratification, it will go to the basket and it will be a great shame, because this agreement provides us with international guarantees as regards the rights of citizens, those who are on the islands now, for the rest of their lives, permanent guarantees that cannot be touched, for example. vote in the British Parliament. It also guarantees the protection of the financial interests of the Union in relation to the accounts of the last years of membership which, as it so happens, will fall at the very end of the financial perspective, which will be settled when the United Kingdom is already outside the Union. The outlook will be numerous until 2023. The Agreement regulates the principles according to which the United Kingdom distributes to the Union budget together with the maturity of the various types of commitments. It's a pretty complicated mechanism. In the state in which it is negotiated and closed The UK authorities do not question this, which is a very good side of the whole process. It guarantees us that there will be no imbalance in the budgetary perspective that is now in force. So this is about absolutely vital interests not only of Poland, but also of the whole Union. The question arises: what harms the ratification of the Brexit Agreement? In our view, the ratification of the Brexit Agreement is detrimental to the radicalism of some European leaders. Some public statements by some European leaders are detrimental to the agreement in such a way that they strengthen the radical side of the British policy, whose representatives openly want no agreement to take place, because they believe that the agreement is binding on the British legislator because of the guarantee of rights and that the agreement is costly because it obliges Britain to pay to the Union from which it comes. I'd like to. I think it's kind of a political element. At a critical moment like this, when we see that in the UK the situation is extremely volatile, extremely unstable, irresponsible political declarations that have happened, including with regard to the Salzburg Summit, not to strengthen the part of British policy that simply does not want this agreement. Therefore, not only will we act for unity, but we will also encourage it. We've been doing this for months. To find a political method that strengthens the British government's mandate to win a vote in the British Parliament. It's in our vital interest to make this operation work. Unfortunately, today, the likelihood that negotiations will fall as a result of a bad vote, the collapse of ratification on the British side is higher than ever. It's gone up. I'm not saying that this is the baseline scenario is still an agreement and ratification as soon as possible, probably at the last minute. But this probability has increased. And that is the reason why we urge European leaders to be careful with public declarations on this matter. What we do behind closed doors is a separate matter. We need to close open negotiations. But what we say in public has an extraordinary power, sometimes a force of destruction, a destructive force. And here we should be very careful, just like any negotiation. There is no problem of breaking the unity of the Union in this matter. Even if someone had an idea like that. I'm not saying that in Warsaw, but in some other country. This would not have worked, because today we have no decisions to make, which must be taken unanimously. So these considerations are absurd, they're just taken from the hat. [[Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski's question.]] I'm sorry, actually. [[The end of the European Parliament's term of office...]] With regard to deadlines, the European Commission expects and clearly tells Member States that it would be very good if budgetary negotiations were closed before the end of the political cycle, before the end of the Commission and Parliament's term of office. This is completely understandable because the Commission would like to succeed and say: we have done this project and we have this budget. We don't mind closing it quickly, but time is not a key criterion here. The quality of the compromise is a key criterion for us. If the compromise is acceptable tomorrow, we can do it tomorrow. Time here is not a value in itself. It's not about whether it's gonna be fast or whether it's gonna be later. There is nothing to suggest today that we can imagine a scenario in which we would close negotiations, because the degree of dissatisfiedness of different Member States is so great that... I've never seen anything like it. I have looked at many different negotiating processes with regard to the MFF. State positions are the same because countries are in the same places, but they express their positions much more strongly, much more aggressively. Therefore, the chances of easy closure of negotiations under some compromise solution are much lower today. This is the reason why, I believe, these negotiations are the most difficult in the history of the Union. Political circumstances in the capitals, visible to the naked eye, also make matters very difficult. Of course, it would be very bad if it turned out that we could not reach the multiannual financial framework before the end of the current multiannual financial framework, because we would enter into a kind of budgetary commission which would be difficult in particular for multiannual projects, major projects, programming and beneficiaries. We hope that this can be closed by the end of 2020 and perhaps earlier. Poland is ready for this. We will not create any forward-looking obstacles as long as there are good proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u228	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, my question will not concern any documents. I came here to hear your report. We are, like everyone else here in this room, people for whom concern for the Republic is most important. Right? [[We're not talking about the Republic of Poland.]] They appear also in European comments, and in the comments of our media, the words that Poland may be the lever that will scatter the European Union. I may disagree or agree, but... Tell me something then. If we are members of the Union and we have to comply with all the rules, the rules of EU law, how will it be... In view of the situation in the Polish justice system in the meetings of the Prime Minister of our government, who notabene This information from before will have to apologize for what he said about the roads... In this situation and in the context of the growing populism in Europe, in the context of what is happening with this American visit, I forgot his name A policy that wants to put Europe in the hands of populists and does this... Are we... [[We've been talking about this for an hour.]] [[The Bulgarian Presidency...]] ...but we will not become some point, a place that could lead to a break-up of the European Union, a scattering of... Because from this picture of today's world, this is where it's going. [[Thank you very much...]] Among other things, through... [[Thank you...]] ...through... [[Mr. Senator, are you there? I'm sorry, but time...]] No, I thought... because the senator said something. In a word, in order to put it in one sentence, I will ask: will the situation relating to the case of Polish courts not affect e.g. for the future Polish budget and for our relations with the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u230	Thank you. Does Senator Pociej support the desire to ask one more question? Yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you've ignored my first question a little bit. I listened to your earlier statements about the Polish government's struggle on the shape of the brexite. You spoke in the second part, in answer to my question, where we will lose more, where we will lose less. In this context, I would like to ask you a question. There's no doubt about it, because this is what you're fighting for, because you're fighting to keep England from leaving... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, no...]] Minister, politicians of the PiS repeatedly I'm not saying that you... [[Question, question.]] ...on this subject they said it was a great misfortune for Poland. And we are wondering which way of leaving the UK will have less negative consequences for Poland. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] In this context, as you would say to President Duda, who says that we actually owe nothing to the European Union, and to some colleagues from the Law and Justice Chamber who are quite often denying here, also in your presence... One of the senators said during your previous presence here that this European Union is leading nothing. How can we reconcile your statements that we may lose and lose more or less with our statements? In my opinion quite irresponsible, among others. our president. That there is no added value in the European Union? [[Is that a question?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u232	I think that's a little complicated. [[Senator Aleksander Pociej: I think it's very important...]] But you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u233	No, no, I think it's simple enough that one thing has nothing to do with the other. [[Exactly.]] It just doesn't have anything to do with it. [[Applause]] I got involved as much as I could to find a common point, but unfortunately I didn't. I give up on this. As for brexitu, we are very satisfied with how the negotiations on the recommendations of the European Council have been conducted. Here was a time when unity was needed, because these recommendations are adopted unanimously. I recommendations adopted by the Council, 100% they implemented the Polish mandate, which is what we wanted about the agreement, this narrow exit agreement. We then adopted a mandate for Michel Barnier, which also 100% He has lived up to our expectations in this matter. The next stage of the Brexit process It was already much more difficult to implement this mandate in the negotiations with the UK. These negotiations are at the stage today... They say 80%. What's written in the mandate is agreed, and 20%. ... Well, that's how you measure certain elements of contract management rules, and in particular the very complicated issue of the Irish border, which is not a problem for us directly, but is a very important problem for the integrity of the common market. So, of course, the UK exit agreement from the European Union, this narrow agreement regulating exit rules, the principle of getting out of the obligations arising from the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union, is as properly negotiated as possible, is 100% implemented. Polish expectations. That's why we want nothing bad to happen to this deal so badly. And I am convinced that we will not have such turbulence on the side of the EU. Nothing says anything unpredictable could happen on our side. But I think anyone who's watching this process must see that we don't have that kind of comfort in the UK. That is why we need responsibility on the part of the EU in terms of political comments on this process. In addition, for the future and for our condition after the brexite, it is not so much an agreement concerning the narrowly understood exit as what will happen after the brexit, which is the day after. At the request of the UK, the Brexit Agreement provides for a transitional period of almost two years to allow EU rules to continue to function without the institutional presence of the UK, i.e. without its participation in decision-making. And this time is needed to develop new rules for cooperation, particularly in trade and economic cooperation, but also in security and foreign policy. This second topic, it seems, does not arouse such controversy today. Recently, an article from foreign ministers of Poland, Lithuania and Romania was published on this issue, which called for as ambitious projects as possible in terms of security. So it doesn't seem very controversial. But with regard to the development of trade rules, the principles in economic cooperation, this is a hell of a difficult matter, because the UK considers the exit from the common market and the exit from the customs union to be shore conditions of its position. This makes it extremely difficult to achieve the right call for economic relations to be as ambitious as possible and as near as possible, so that the damage Brexit will cause in trade with EU partners is as small as possible. In fact, Poland is keenly interested in ensuring that these damages are as small as possible, not only because of the fact that the United Kingdom plays a quite significant role in Poland's trade relations, but also because we see very serious political threats in all of this. In short, the European Union cannot afford to freeze the process of reconstruction, renewal of the rules of cooperation by reckless start-up of the incoherent, chaotic, nervous brexite process for years. This would be at the expense of our security and at the expense of our economic interests, which is why this process is so delicate. This is the reason why we are constantly raising that the sensitivity of this process requires responsibility, which we do not always find in some European politicians. We are entering the most critical period in this case. I think that's as much as I can say about brexit today. As far as the broader question is concerned, whether the Union will fall through Poland or, more specifically, by undefined meetings of Prime Minister Morawiecki, I think that this can be completely peaceful. If only Poland depended on the fate of the European Union, we would be in an extremely comfortable situation. I think it's worth seeing that a few years ago, it doesn't last very long, so it was time to notice. In the period since 2008, the European Union has been shaken, south in its own way, north in its own way, shaken by the debt crisis. The economic and monetary union has not yet recovered from the crisis, and to this day there are no instruments to protect it from excessive exposure to the debt of certain economies, sometimes very large economies such as Italy, public debt or private debt. This is Europe's concern. This is where Europe's real problems are. The euro crisis has caused a disruption of confidence in the European process on an unprecedented scale. See the results of the elections, if you do not believe, in France, Italy, Spain. Every time elections are held there, Europe stops breathing because the scale of rebellion, sometimes open, towards the process of integration in these countries, but not only in these countries, is historically unprecedented in every EU country. These are real problems. The second impact was, of course, the migration crisis, which caused another wave of rebellion, lack of trust, sometimes aggression towards the European project. There are real problems here. None of these crises are hitting in Poland, they are not hitting in Warsaw. Notice that, you can see it with your naked eye. Every child will notice that Warsaw, like all Central Europe, is a place of political stability, a pro-European course, a lack of hesitation about European integration in the social sense. Have you noticed a Eurosceptic group in this parliament? Do you imagine he'll be in the next one? Yeah, a little bit of realism. Moreover, Poland, like Central Europe, is also an exporter of economic growth. The economic growth of the European Union consists of economic growth of individual economies. We have a positive role in this, so really tearing out the robes, once again, quite badly torn, that Poland is certainly the biggest problem of the European Union... I don't know where it's coming from, what kind of process. psychologically behind this kind of perception of European reality, while we can all see where there are problems, where a big question mark is placed, and it is not an accident that some elections did not go there, but a big, thick question mark when it comes to the sense of European integration. Not in Poland, not in Hungary, not in the Czech Republic, not in Lithuania, not in Estonia, not in Slovenia, not in Croatia. Nowhere. This process, this question mark is placed somewhere else and is certainly not placed because of Poland. I hope that's the right answer to that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u235	Minister, if you don't mind, that's the case. The Minister said something about brexitu. Of course, it would be better if there was an agreement, because it gives Poles working and living in the Islands a guarantee, one can say, a lifetime guarantee of their stay, work and status in the Islands. Do I understand that even the British Parliament could not undermine this, i.e. the elected legislative authority in the United Kingdom could not change this agreement in democratic elections? That's the first question. And the other. Minister, would you please... You were talking about radicalism of some politicians. I understand that radicalism is never conducive to agreement. It is obvious, the same is true in the European Union. Could you tell the minister, if it can be revealed, which countries it was like this, whose most radical speeches were, of course, not literally quoting them? I wonder who is most radically opposed to the Brexit agreement. And last but not least, a quick question. Minister, you have noticed that Senator Pociej based his question on information from the Internet. And in such a serious House, the Minister was so kind to say, "You should ask your questions without relying on the Internet, because they write differently there." Does the Minister believe that a senator asking questions in the same block of questions, asking a question about the urgency of the budget and calling the European Commission "Frustrates" from the European Commission... Is there such a question on the site, not from the Internet, but, as I understand it, from the intellect? [[Mr. Senator...]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Marshal, since the Minister suggested that Senator Pociej... [[Okay...]] ...he wasn't getting information from the Internet, I'm asking... [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] ...is this information about the European Commission's losses... [[He didn't say that...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[He said to...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u236	Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, I'm lifting that last question. [[Senator, you always hear something different, but we're used to it.]] Quiet, please! I'm overruled by the last question. Senator Jarosław Oremski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u237	I'm still asking about the Brexit. Because I felt that these negotiations were going hard and close to being overturned, and the European Commission consciously decided to heat up the political atmosphere within the UK, acting a little va banque. And this may mean pushing negotiations on the path that the former UK Foreign Minister wants to give them, but it may also give us a chance to quickly solstice Europe. If I understand the Minister's statement correctly, it tends to reduce the likelihood of a mutually beneficial divorce, so to speak. Is there such a mechanism... Maybe it's different. Is it possible that the divorce of the United Kingdom and the European Union, without agreement, can be successful, either institutionally or stately? Because that would be an explanation for this game va banque from Brussels. Is there a player who's interested in not solving this conflict?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u238	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u239	Your answer, Minister, to the questions of your colleagues was incomplete, and her incompetence is that you see, so to speak, a blade in someone's eye, and you don't see a beam in your own eyes. Not in your personal capacity, but in the groups you represent. Of course, the financial crisis of the European Union is a big problem, so far unsolved by system. Of course Brexit is a problem for the European Union. But the problem for Europe in its entirety is also the expansion of populism about which you and I... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Expansion of what?]] The expansion of populism... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: A!]] ...about which you and I know that it is happening, not only in Western European countries, but also in Eastern European countries, including Poland. If we ignore it now, if we don't see it, we won't be able to diagnose the situation fairly. And that's the truth I wanted to draw your attention to. But I also want to ask you, since this is a stage of questions, why the Polish voice, specifically the voice of the Polish government... Because the voice of Polish experts, the voice of the Polish opposition in this matter is audible. But why is the voice of the Polish government so weakly heard about the future of EU security, and specifically about the European Defence Union? For the sake of clarity, I will say that I treat the European Defence Union as a point of entry as a certain perspective, but in this matter there has been a very lively discussion also in the forums of the European institutions, and the voice of the Polish government in this matter is marginal. I'm saying this on the basis of knowledge, not on the basis of presumption. What causes that in this case the government of the Republic of Poland does not take the position that some other countries, or at least several Western European countries, have?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u240	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u241	I'm not going to argue with my feelings. I think it's enough for me to bring up my own speeches, these here, on defence policy, including today's speech, which accurately illustrates If you could look at the transcripts, you would see a description of the whole decision-making and political process. The subjective, active role of Poland in all areas which are the subject of a decision rather than expert considerations. Because the issue of the European Defence Union is an academic-expert debate. In fact, I am reluctant to participate, because it is quite isolated from the political reality of the Union. On the other hand, in the subject of the European plan to strengthen the defence industry, the Polish voice was very audible, twice included in the conclusions, expressis verbis. In the subject of PESCO the Polish voice was also audible, Poland is one of the founders of PESCO and deepens its commitment to this mechanism. The Polish voice on the financing of defence policy is very clear, I have also spoken here today. Also in the context of the future of European defence policy in the context of brexit, the Polish voice is one of the most visible positions. So I don't know where these presumptions come from. But I won't argue with them. Everyone has the right to feel like they're comfortable. As far as Brexit is concerned, I have not once said a single bad word about the European Commission in this context. On the contrary, I have referred three times to the cooperation so far with Michel Barnier, who represents the Commission. Although he is using the mandate of the State, he is a man of the Commission in the negotiations. And I was merely giving positive opinions, because that's all I have, only positive. Cooperation with Michel Barnier on this matter has been very good since the beginning. And this is the reason why I can say with responsibility that the Polish demands on brexitu are, so far, fulfilled 100%. We're attached to the exit agreement because it's a good deal. We are therefore concerned about those who politically undermine or reduce the likelihood of reaching the finish line, namely the ratification of this agreement in Brussels and London. I will not get involved in pointing the finger at such people, especially because they are people who, in the protocol sense, are much higher than I am. But it's very easy, especially when reading Western newspapers Because in Poland this subject is not so closely followed To see who it's about, it's about actually quite conventional cases. Among those who are unnecessarily emotional today, there are certainly those who do so without understanding the situation. They just think it's the right thing to do, that someone will be happy with such or other words... Anyway, they don't do it according to any plan, with no assumption. But there are certainly also those who do so with a strict assumption. From the very beginning of the Brexit, especially at the very beginning, which is just after the vote has been announced, all the time And there were, of course, dozens of discussions on this issue, there is a tone that arises from irritation, a tone that suggests that Britain must feel that Brexit and leaving the European Union is a humiliating and painful process. Of course I understand emotions, everyone has the right to emotions, but such emotions dictate a very bad policy. And leaving the European Union is the right of every member of the European Union, as confirmed by the Treaty. If a country wants to do this, there is no discussion about whether it can do it or cannot, whether it is right or wrong. It's just what he decided. What depends on us is to carry out this process so that our interests are protected, and so that the future that is ahead of us in any case... Because Britain will not cease to be Europe's neighbour, it will not cease to be an essential part of Europe's political architecture, not just in terms of security. So it's up to us that this future is drawn, constructed in a reasonable way. And that's what politics is for. And from emotion maybe there are commentators, probably that's what Internet users do. However, when we hear such voices from the Heads of Government, ministers, we are concerned about what this exercise is really about. This is an irresponsible position. Implementation of such a position and this scenario Which can be very handy for all radicals, so they'll probably be happy to quote all these opinions. It is certainly contrary to the Polish and European interests. And this is the Polish position on this matter. I think it actually sounds strong. And maybe that's the reason why someone, hearing in Brussels five through ten, comes to the conclusion that it's probably a breakdown of unity. No, there's no such threat, there's no such threat. It doesn't make any sense. Nevertheless, the Polish voice in the case of brexitu sounds clear, as it sounds here now, because we have nothing to hide in this matter. Our interests in this matter are well defined, we know what we want from this process, and we know what we don't want. So if someone goes back to the rhetoric of punishing Britain for using the treaty law... I remember that when the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted, a lot of people said that the exit solution was a great advantage of the Treaty, that we are democratizing the European Union, that we have comfortable exit conditions, we can leave the Union. So Britain is leaving, and she's just taken advantage of that right. So that doing, and at a high political level, comments about the need to punish someone, is simply irresponsible. And that's at the expense of our business. Therefore, if such opinions return, Poland will argue with such opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u242	Thank you. Mr... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u243	I asked a question about the sustainability of Poles' rights. If there is an agreement, then, as the Minister said, these privileges will not be touching until death. So, as I understand it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u244	Yeah, sorry, I didn't notice. I had it written here by password. I wouldn't call it a privilege, because citizens of the Member States of the European Union who migrated for various reasons learning, working, living simply The United Kingdom, as a Member State, used the EU's right to join the United Kingdom in the European Union. Our position from the very beginning was that the United Kingdom, of course, has the right to leave the European Union, but it cannot lead to a weakening of the rights that have been acquired, because people, in line with the current legal and political situation, trusting this legal form, decided, for example. for migration, starting families, companies, whatever... Our position on this matter was not isolated, it was actually an EU position. It was based on the fact that it should be noted that these rights acquired because of the UK decision cannot be reduced. This is a far-reaching position, because future UK solutions for migrants and travelers from Europe for various reasons will certainly not be so generous. And of course Britain has the right to do with its right, with its migration policy in the future, what it wants. That's when people who are potentially making a decision will be clear. Right? I can go to the UK, which has such arrangements and arrangements, so to speak, with regard to the availability of the labour market, health services, social benefits, a whole range of life issues. Right? And those who migrated during membership must not be the British political process affected. And that's what we've achieved. In a very detailed, retail way, this is enshrined in an international agreement whose durability is immeasurably greater than unilateral guarantees or bilateral guarantees or some sectoral, narrow agreements. Because let's make a deal: Britain is a civilized country anyway. We do not expect that, from day to day, the United Kingdom, due to the moods that exist here and there in the public opinion, will adopt a law that will be openly discriminatory, which will be openly aggressive towards the citizens of other countries. Definitely not. And what we want is for citizens to have a sense of predictability, a sense of sustainability of rights, so that they don't feel that their rights depend on every election, that they can be the subject of an election game. And that guarantees us a deal to get Britain out of the European Union one hundred percent. It's the way we wanted it. Of course, financial clearance is no less important. No less important issues are the issues of the future, but we have already discussed this. So yes: as far as the contract is concerned, the durability of these guarantees is crucial here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u246	Minister, in what you have called a complicated way, I really wanted to know what you think of people who, in their very serious and responsible positions in Poland, depreciate the European Union, depreciating our participation in it. And I want to tell you that, as I have always been very impressed by your style of formulation, in a very diplomatic way, the answer, today I bow to you because your opinion of the lunatics from Italy and Spain who are depreciating the European Union is a wonderful answer to my question, which I no longer have to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u247	I would like to correct: I did not use the word "church," because I would never use such a negative word against any part of the public opinion of any country. I would rather encourage everyone to consider why so many people have doubts about whether this process of European integration makes sense. Instead of throwing stones at someone, you might want to ask yourself why so many people have doubts. [[I understand that this can be extended to all politicians, including Polish.]] Excuse me? [[I understand that this can be extended to all politicians harming the European Union and the Polish state, including Polish ones. Right?]] I don't know what you mean, so I won't comment on it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u248	Good. It's a complicated construction, Mr. Senator. We're leaving it. [[Yes, sir.]] We'll leave that to you. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u249	I would like to thank the Minister very much for making such a thorough reference to my previous question. And for the fact that you reassured me that Poland will not be the brake here. Good. Minister, what's it like? Are there two different languages? Is there a language of diplomacy, a language of yours, a skilled diplomat... I don't expect you to admit to me and agree with my reasoning. I'm in a lost position because you're gonna talk after me anyway. But in a situation where I hear a public statement or see a printed negative phrase somewhere from one of the politicians ruling a group about the European Union... Am I gonna be responsible then? After all, we're all people with experience here. I could say it's against the Polish state. You clearly said in your speech today that we all want the European Union to continue. But if I get information about things I do professionally I'm saying, for example. that governments support the vote in the European Parliament if I hear the same from our ministers, and at the same time in the language used for Polish use, there is something completely different and MEPs are attacked for voting in favour of protecting the rights of creators... That's what it looks like. So how is this supposed to work? We're gonna say something else for international, diplomatic purposes, and what else are we gonna say here? We will tell people every day, and then these people will write on the Internet that we may finally get out of the European Union. Thank you very much. It wasn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u250	Well, actually, yes. Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Maybe I'll answer that question so I don't come back to this later.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u251	This is a free country. Parliament should have no restriction on the delivery of opinions. It would be really curiosity if we expected that, in the case of the European Union, people could be deprived of their right to criticism. The European Union, like any other public authority, should be criticised. I am surprised that it is not only in Poland that such a tone returns, that it is possible to criticize everyone, it is possible to give an infinitely opinion of everyone, but not of the European Union and not of the people who represent the European Union. This is an absurd assumption, in some ways very contrary to the liberal political tradition, which was born of skepticism, which was born from the belief that power should be criticized. The Union is the same power as any other. You have the right to criticize our government, and everyone in this room has the right to criticize what they want. A separate issue is the legitimacy of such criticism. In a particular case, everyone has to cope on their own. Please do not ask me to declare in Blanco that all critical votes against the European Union are certainly invalid, because they are very often very important. And they're very often well-founded. The situation is a little more complicated. I'm sure she's not white and black. I didn't say we didn't want to be brakes. I said that no source of crises of the European Union beats in Warsaw, contrary to what you sometimes try to repaint. There is an image in which the epicenter of the problem is in Warsaw. On the contrary, in Warsaw there is no problem for the European Union. So this is the essence of things. Are we going to brake? Depends. If there's any bullshit, we're gonna brake. It's like you're picking different topics here, and sometimes you think you don't, you have to slow down, because it's stupid. The European Union is not free from error. All the diseases of the democratic system that are in the Member States are being transferred to the European Union: bad regulation, excessive regulation, a political process that looks as if they were talking to each other deaf and blind. Everything is exactly the same, so I do not understand why in many speeches, because this is not the first appearance of this type, there is a longing for the Union to remove from the right to criticism, because it is not nice, wrong, unwise. Oh, no, no. I think that's how we build a bubble of discontent. Because if we tell people on a large scale over the years that you can criticize anything but the Union, they're really gonna be pissed eventually. And this is what we see in many other countries, not yet in Poland. We do everything to make people feel comfortable so they don't feel like they have to act in a certain way in this one situation. I would believe in a free debate, in short, on this matter and refer to each case individually, to each argument individually, and not to a muzzle for a public debate. I don't think it's going to serve anyone, with the Union at the head. [[But I have to... if I can, just for a second, I won't argue anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u252	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u253	Minister, I'm not talking about criticism and words that are oppositional or other kind of criticism. I'm talking about firming by serious officials, and for the time being we've been saying this, very negative behavior, almost that I don't use some words. The Union's spit. That's what I'm talking about because I think it's bad for us. If you think it's okay, I can't help it anymore. But, of course, you responded brilliantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u254	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, could you say a few words about the Eastern Partnership? I am interested in the assessment of the Minister and the details of the perspective. Will we, as Poland, be active when it comes to the Eastern Partnership in a new perspective, and if so, in what direction will this be going? And second question. A brief note is provided in the report presented, Minister, on: The European Union, the United States. Could I hear a few words from the Minister on what is the official position of the European Union, the European Council towards the United States, if any, with particular regard to Mr Trump's presentation to the European Union of such a slightly reluctant, protectionist position on the issue of trade? This is about the European Union's point of view, but also the Polish and Polish government's point of view on relations between the European Union U.S.A.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u256	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u257	I, too, like the Minister, like to stick to the facts, but rhetoric also matters. And according to your motto just now presented here, I would like to know how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to argue with such harmful statements. I'll only name three. As your former boss, Minister Waszczykowski, who immediately after the defeated vote on the election of the President of the European Council said, quote from memory The level of confidence in the European Union, President Andrzej Duda, has to be reduced. I'm quoting from memory. The imaginary community, or deputy prime minister Jarosław Gowin, who said that if the ECJ judgment for Poland were to be adverse, negotiations should be made with... that is, it is possible to negotiate with the European Court of Justice. I did not meet with any distance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards these harmful statements, and according to your motto regarding such statements on your own ground, Polish should be distanced so that Poland is free from those threats that you described.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u258	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u259	I hear a yearning for censorship again, but all I'm going to say is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not from reviewing every speech in every case. It would be psychic if we were explaining what we think about it. Each of these statements had its context, all of them were quoted in an inaccurate way So there's no point in going on with it. Really, this is a little creative part of this discussion. As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, contrary to what happened at the very beginning, that is, the situation in which the European Union, I think that Poland also assumed that the partnership countries would be able to join the regulatory and political community, the EU's socio-economic model without obstacles, as it were unilaterally... It made a great deal of sense, except for one detail, namely that this march was political, regulatory and social moving to the West with a very aggressive response from Russia. And that was an element of the EU count that has been underestimated. And no one believed that Russia would react aggressively to any, even a very small, modest act of closeness to the West, such as it was. an association agreement with Ukraine, which in fact led to war. So almost everything has changed since the Eastern Partnership was established. All these countries which were covered by this provision are in a radically different situation with regard to the Union. Some of them have limited their cooperation to a very narrow channel, like Armenia, with which we will soon sign and ratify the agreement, very narrow. Some, like Azerbaijan, have only limited themselves to narrow sectoral agreements. Some, like Belarus, have and have never had the ability to conduct a political process with the Union. Some, like Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, are the most advanced in this process, but that does not mean that this process is without obstacles for them. Ukraine has paid for this war, Georgia has also, Moldova, like all other countries, suffered from direct political interference by Russia or non-state institutions associated with Russia in the political process. So the situation turned out to be much more difficult than the Union had promised itself than it had expected. So today, in order to save the Eastern Partnership, we need to introduce an element of the distinction between these instruments. Because it was originally assumed that there was one model and one scenario for everyone. Today, we know that we need to have different models of cooperation for each country, according to their capabilities. As far as the budgetary aspect is concerned, this element in the Commission's proposal has our support, of course, with the assumption that everything must be agreed, because the Commission proposes to increase financing for external actions, including in the area of neighbourhood policy, by 24%. That's a lot. However, I believe the Commission's intention is to believe that a lion's share of these funds will be located in the south, where we have a migratory crisis and very, so to speak, financially absorbing needs. But, of course, we are going to, as always, from the very beginning of this institution, this idea, the geographical balance, as it is possible politically. Of course, given that these needs in the east and those in the south are different and completely different, we will, as always, ask for a geographical balance in this matter. And, of course, it's about the project surviving the worst of times and surviving. Well, active on this issue in the Foreign Affairs Council is, I think, 9 countries, including of course Poland, which are trying In particular, they tried before the Eastern Partnership summit, which took place recently. To draw up a scenario for the exit from this crisis. The Eastern Partnership is definitely in crisis. Maybe he'll make it. This crisis is, of course, not only blamed by the EU side. It is largely a consequence of aggressive external action. [[Thank you very much, Minister...]] [[...And the United States of America's Union?]] I will admit that these are huge topics, so it is difficult for me to condone the response to the size of the Senate debate. But the Union's reactions are, you might say, partial. These specifics are partial. The political narrative, what's kept in the air, is a separate subject. Nevertheless, we have at least 2 problems among these partial reactions. The first is the adoption of compensatory measures against aluminium and steel duties. They worked. The Union market is protected in the event of a flood of aluminium and as regards duties from other directions which will reflect the US customs border. And the second thing is the future of an agreement with Iran, which also has a strong trade relationship. Today, the Union is on a collision course because it is building an instrumentarium that is in fact intended to undermine the sense of American sanctions, which is potentially explosive. From a Polish point of view, this is a bad development of events, because the transatlantic community should avoid such tensions. It is not only dependent on the Union, it is, of course, also a note to Washington, but we can say that we are looking at it with concern, because it is easy to imagine the spiral negative development of this situation, and our potential is involved in quenching these tensions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u260	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Please, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u261	If the marshal lets you do it, because it's gonna be... I'd like to know, because what the Minister said at the end is very important. This question is sort of outside the program of our point. If your marshal will allow and in the interest of knowledge... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Most of the questions are off the agenda.]] No, no, Minister... [[No, Minister...]] ...everything grows up, so to speak, from what we're talking about. [[Otherwise, it would have been over by now.]] If your marshal will allow me, I would like to know what is the current position on the withdrawal of the United States from the non-proliferation agreement with Iran. If the Minister wanted to describe more fully the position of the Republic of Poland represented by the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... For the sake of knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u262	The justification for the American step is factual. The Americans believe that the agreement does not meet its objective, that it offers great opportunities for greater economic cooperation with the Western world, which will translate into a growing real capacity for arms, so we understand this position. This is a coherent position internally. We do not have any other contractual regime with Iran, so we also understand the EU's position towards at least maintaining this agreement. However, the methods that the Union is trying to maintain this agreement This is not an official position, this is my comment As I understand it, it raises doubts, because building mechanisms for international financial settlement, building support mechanisms can be read, and in fact it is read by the State Department as an act against the security interests of the United States, in such a way that the European Union is actively involved in reducing the importance of American sanctions. And the point of getting out of this agreement was for Iran to feel American sanctions. So here we are, politically, potentially, dealing with an extremely explosive situation. And I can repeat what I just said, that our potential is involved in reducing this tension, because we would not want the transatlantic community to suffer beyond what is necessary. Those losses have already occurred. We see clearly not only state policy but also very worrying changes in the public opinion. Today I have seen the results of studies on the German opinion and they believe that the United States is seen as a partner less credible than Russia. It must be disturbing to say the mildest. In short, there's something wrong with this case. But this isn't my area, so please don't treat these words very bindingly. [[Thank you very much.]] Invite Minister Cichocki, he'll talk about it in a few hours in a seminal mood.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u263	Thank you very much. I do not see any more willingness to ask questions to the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I am grateful.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll wait until Senator Oremski finishes his conversation, because I'd like to address a few words to the Minister, so if Senator Oremski will allow... [[Let's get to the point.]] Yeah, let's get to the point. Minister, by listening to the Minister... We, performing here, in Parliament, as the Minister rightly pointed out, among others. as politicians, we are here to criticize and discuss certain elements of politics, statements, processes. So I'd like to stress a few of these things. First of all, listening to the Minister, I'm experiencing something like two theatres, probably Szaniawski. On the one hand, it is reasonable, in my view, full of concrete and Polish justifications of the Minister's statement, and on the other hand there are statements of various politicians of Law and Justice, who are actually completely, 180 degrees away from what the Minister said here. I think we all agree that being in the European Union is a right state for us. The obvious thing is that the European Union, like every family, is also an institution or organisation that is not error-free from what is associated with negative assessment and criticism by the Member States. In addition, this criticism should also take place. But the European Union is not only for Poland money, money, making roads, bridges, these imaginary, imaginary, but also those real, real projects, which, like Poland long and wide, are realized. The Union is also a security system. But there are also some values that the European Union brings. That's why, after hearing the Minister, I'm built up to be in a family that has values. And while the Minister is also talking about the fact that the words of radicals and radical language or such behaviour are not an element conducive to fair criticism or solving problems, I also subscribe to it. Why am I having so much doubt? I would briefly like to mention this by reminding only some of the statements of the leading law and justice politicians in relation to the European Union and certain gestures, words. Let me put it this way: it started with Krystyna Pawłowicz's speech about the flag, that the EU flag is a rag. And even in the Senate, the flags of the European Union have disappeared, they are not present during any kind of speeches, meetings. Of course, it can be said that, in the context of the importance of the problems mentioned here by the Minister, and the involvement of Polish diplomacy and the Minister in the activities of the European Union, it does not matter, but also such symbols are certain signals, as you said, of radicals. The imaginary community is the words of the President. Deputy Prime Minister Gowin said: the government may not recognise the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And I think the Prime Minister said yesterday that the European Commission's proposals are completely shutting down the negotiations. So this is the gray reality of law and justice politicians. I understand the commitment of the Minister and what is necessary in the context of the Polish state of affairs, i.e. criticizing, making new proposals, correcting certain issues, making their own proposals. But when the Prime Minister says that what the opposition in Poland is saying today in relation to the European Union, it is jazz... Well, it's not a constructive language. And when, in today's debate, one of the Senators of Law and Justice says: 'Please tell me whether these frustrated people from the European Commission must be in such a hurry...' Well, I'm sure that's the language of compromise for you. Minister, I am pleased that you represent Poland in the work of the European Union. On the other hand, there is what I said, i.e. We have the second part of this theatre, which is represented by the ruling politicians of Law and Justice. The Minister said: Britain is a civilised country, which is why I am calm about the sustainability of rights. So the democratically elected parliament in the UK will not change the law on what countries have agreed to do. And they agreed that Poles living in Great Britain acquired these rights, so they would not go back. What do we have in Poland today? Not only are the rights acquired withdrawn, but also the rights enshrined in the Constitution. So we can ask ourselves whether what the Minister said about the European Union, namely the sustainability of rights, should not apply in a Member State of the European Union. After all, we signed up for a club that I agree with the Minister. It can be criticised, it should be criticised and it should be criticised. Only that certain common principles, when you go into a family or when you start a family and you adopt certain common elements, can change, but together. Then they can be changed during their operation. However, as the Minister said, the sustainability of the rights... Well, radicals don't agree. And we're in this situation. Poland's right state is the European Union, and Law and Justice politicians do everything Of course this is the reception, although I may be mistaken, the reception in public space We should get out of this European Union. And I would also like to quote what concerns statistical surveys in Poland. Over the last 2 years, support for the European Union with 86% fell to 82% Of course, this enthusiasm for the European Union is falling in most countries, but this is particularly evident in us, among others. by saying things like that about an imaginary community that doesn't give anything, etc., etc., like saying that the European Union is a being that we don't really need. And now about this most important dispute, the dispute between Poland and the European Commission on the rule of law. I want to say, Minister. I'm sure the Minister read it, but I'll say it in public space. According to recent studies, 48% Poles claim that the Polish government is at fault, that the Polish government, including parliament, is doing everything to bring about a situation of dispute and everything that can end in polexit. After all, if we do not respect the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it will be a simple way to marginalize Poland in the European Union. But what else is important in this study? Well, young Poles, for whom the future in the European Union is the future they dream of... Almost 60% Those Poles up to the age of twenty-nine claim that this is an obvious error of the Polish government, which cannot communicate and introduces laws that are incompatible with the Constitution, break the rule of law and are incompatible with the principles of the European Union. I think it is worth considering, Minister, in various discussions, that what is related to the opinion of Poles is also important. And last but not least, I would like to quote: As if to confirm that one is what the Minister says, and the other is what the Polish government and Polish politicians do in relation to the European Union, what I have read on the Internet, Minister, so please be forgiving. It's written in the newspaper "Independent," so close to Law and Justice, which is interviewing Professor Legutka. He says, "There is no compromise with who they are." It is important to read: those who are frustrated by quoting one of the Members They think they're enemies. So, if someone thinks we're enemies, you can't compromise. And what else do you say, Professor? The Court of Justice of the European Union is the same. He thinks we're enemies, too. The judges at the Court represent this main European trend and the Court's judgment is therefore questionable. So read: the same reforms that you are carrying out in the Supreme Court, in the Court of Justice of the European Union, and then the ruling will be correct. If this is the language of compromise, I have already lost my sense of what the words "compromis" mean, "the language of compromise," "the search for solutions," as the Minister said. That's why I'd just like to say, like in the beginning: these are two theatres. One is what the Minister presents and the other is what the Law and Justice politicians say and do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u265	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Oremski. There you go. [[I didn't volunteer.]] You didn't volunteer? And you... [[No, Senator Alexander Bobko.]] Oh, Senator Alexander Bobko. I'm sorry, my glasses aren't right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my opinion that the Minister's speech showed Poland's real commitment to the European Union. Well, thank you so much for just... and just saying the same thing, and the answers to the questions were that kind of thing. They showed where the problems are and what our actual commitment is, where there are threats, which are important and which are less important. For a moment, soon, I would like to pay attention to matters less important, which the Minister in his statements avoided a bit, very elegantly, diplomatically. However, in this debate, I think it is also worth leaning on them for a while. Because it's kind of like family, isn't it? There are things that are very important. I don't know, property, family status. But sometimes bad blood and huge problems or even breaking up a family can be caused by stupidities, little things that, because of their emotions and psychology, become extremely important in some process. And I, looking at our relations with the European Union, sometimes have the impression that certain small things, things that in relation to the whole Union are actually marginal, in a strange little, surprising and not completely understandable way, are causing a growing wave of bad emotions and bad blood. The first point is that they do not have a special impact on the attitude of Poles towards the European Union. The data you quoted from the senator's statement that it dropped by 4% within 80%. ... It can be said that this is actually within the limits of error and that, against the background of other countries, we are a positive example of the fact that Poles want to be in the Union. In the official programme of Law and Justice, in key declarations, whether political or government, such a position is very strongly stressed. There is nowhere in any official document to say that someone would have the idea of weakening our ties with the European Union. That's the first line. However, some of the statements that the fellow Senators in the opposition are quoting, which have taken place or are taking place... Probably also in the election campaign, where this kind of atmosphere is often conducive to various such emotional statements of politicians. However, these statements are, in my opinion, caused by the fact that in Europe, in this old Europe in particular, in Brussels, in Western Europe, for many years actually some cultural processes have been going on, ideologies that are to us, Poles, culturally alien. You could say it's nothing dangerous. or anything extraordinary, because the Minister of the European Union or Europe has spoken about this, and Europe is no longer a pluralist place, and it is a place that contains many different ideas, so to speak, many different ideas and ideas for life. However, among these mainstream or most influential European elites, there are ideologies or ideas that are, I would say, somewhat alien. And here's the tension between what Once again password-coded We can relate to Christian culture and some culture towards Christianity competitive, taking place. Such disputes appear in Europe and there is no need to pretend otherwise. And in this sense we are in a minority with regard to Brussels elites. The second thing that's causing this bad blood is these grades. From my point of view, it is extremely unfair to refer to the state of the rule of law in Poland. This dispute of the Union as such, of course, is not a threat, as the Minister said perfectly here, but on the Warsaw line. Brussels is causing such bad blood. These bad emotions are overstretched by the media. I'd like to appeal. It's just hard to tell who, where to find a solution To stop this senseless chuckle of dancing somehow, to end it. For now, there is no such prospect, so far this conflict, this ladly dance is unfortunately growing. I hope that diplomats like you and politicians like you will have ideas on how to end this. This serves neither us nor the European Union, which has many more serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u267	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a very comprehensive and elegant presentation of the subject as usual. I must say that the Minister has actually expressed to me this huge culture that he has presented, especially in response to this assignment, it is wrong that you call certain people expressing certain views very pejoratively. This elegance, which is appropriate to the Minister, deserves to be followed by all parliamentarians and is a model of a culture of discussion and presentation from which we should draw. The Minister raised issues relevant to Poland's position in connection with the Brexit, whether we will finally reach an agreement with Great Britain or not, as well as political issues, let us call it the countries that have recently been admitted to the European Union, namely the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. And right, 'cause there's one thing to remember. That Europe is composed not only of the old founding countries of the European Union, but also of the new ones. As the Holy Father once said beautifully, Europe should breathe with two lungs. One is made up of old European countries, these old members, and the other is those countries that were adopted after 2004, just like Poland, and later. Ladies and gentlemen, what is important is what we saw during the Economic Forum in Krynica, when these countries of Central and Eastern Europe presented their positions in such a beautiful way, that from the economic discussion, which was, after all, a starting point, we went to the discussion about values, we went to the discussion about what was the foundation of the European Union, and we wondered about the reasons behind the fact that we were moving away from those values which were the foundation of the foundations of the European Union, namely the European Coal and Steel Community, because first this institution was created, then the EEC and then the Union itself. After all, this is not anything other than the Christian values that the fathers of the European Union, especially Robert Schuman, French Minister for Foreign Affairs, Konrad Adenauer, German Chancellor, and French Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gasperi. And at the moment, if there are situations such as those mentioned by the Minister, when sometimes the purpose or value of the European Union is being questioned, it is worth considering why such a statement occurs. Well, precisely because we are moving away from these fundamental Christian values that form the basis for the establishment of institutions that later became the European Union. And it is worth noting and emphasising, even with satisfaction, that the new countries of the European Union want to restore these roots and the way they value them by restoring the right sense to these wordings, which exist, among others. in the Treaty of Lisbon, which states, one can say, the crowning of the entire unification process and constitutes a kind of constitution of the European Union. Then I'm sure these misunderstandings will be less. But it is important for countries, these new countries, including Poland, to be fully treated, not subjectively, like this poor brother, a little younger, treated a little with pity and stroked on the head by the older brother, which is a group of other countries, especially Germany, France and others, who were founders of these communities. And that's what Poland is fighting for. And the fact that we have, ladies and gentlemen, a dispute about the launch of the article. 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the Treaty of Lisbon, and that the judicial instance, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, will deal with this, is not yet any reason to make the thesis on this, I ask you, that the European Union is hostile to us or that it is an institution in which the reasons for existence should be doubted. Even if such words appear, if we read such phrases on the Internet, this is due to the heating of the whole situation, mainly by the media. I would like to remind those politicians who clearly point out that Poland is in the European Union. And that this place is also a place where Poland should contribute, among others. by keeping an eye on those values which gave rise to the creation of the European Union. After all, President Kaczyński once said very clearly that we are in the European Union and we will be in it, and all the dreams about it as if we were going to come out of the European Union... Well, it's completely illegal to say that. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that society is somehow divided, but, as Senator Czarnobaj pointed out here, still more than 80% of society is in favour of us being in the European Union and appreciating the value of the European Union. However, there will always be some skeptics, people who have some distance. The fact that sometimes it seems even critical opinions e.g. on the Luxembourg tribunal... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a human matter. No tribunal is free from critical assessments. I was once very delighted by another tribunal, namely the Strasbourg Tribunal, which operates within another international organisation, much older than the European Union, because within the Council of Europe. However, I also began to critically comment on this tribunal when he began to issue judgments that are unacceptable during the examination of cases, such as the cross hanging in the classroom in one of the Italian towns, when six judges in the 7-day composition said that this allegedly violates the European Convention on Human Rights. Well, luckily, then the 17-person composition, which is this chamber, as it is called, a great one, decided unanimously that there is absolutely no breach of the convention. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people everywhere, and people also decide on the content of judgments, and at the basis of the judgment lies nothing but values. If we have values that are founded and are functioning in a specific way, then the judgments will be appropriate. In any event, I do not see anything terrible in the fact that the Luxembourg Court will settle the issue, and it will probably be a decision which, like what has been happening in Strasbourg, will be a precedent, because there has not yet been a situation in which the Luxembourg Court will rule on these issues. And just as the Strasburg Court once ruled in the so-called. precedent or even pilot case, in Broniowski v Poland, this was the first case, so-called. The first ruling on the assessment of the internal legislation of a particular country, in this case Poland, will probably be the same. Well, I don't see anything terrible about it, and I trust that the ruling will certainly not be what those who opt for it to be there at all. I therefore draw one conclusion from the Minister's statement: firstly, we should be courageous, and secondly, we should be in the European Union the country that makes our contribution, especially in order to maintain the foundations that were at the heart of the creation of the European Union. That's what our contribution should be, our share. I don't think there's any reason to have any visions of black people. Well, it was Senator Czarnobaj who did a little bit of this... [[You're saying it's because of your name?]] ...that there is supposedly some great pressure on us to either step out of the European Union or undermine its value. Well, there's no such thing as fear. I think I can end this... [[Time.]] ...and calm those who have such doubts and fears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u269	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My words of criticism, as you call it, black-and-white, are not the result of my name. - I'll give you that. - Okay. Only what appears in public space. There's only one sentence I'd like to say. I asked the Minister about this during the debate on the position of Poland and the European Union towards the United States, and especially the foreign and economic policy of President Trump. Clearly, President Trump is playing against the European Union. I'm talking about the impression, about what the media is writing, about what the press is reporting. I, of course, only make such a conclusion on this basis. If this is an economic war in the form of customs, it is an obvious game against the unity of the European Union at all, and maybe, as some commentators comment, it is a game against countries in the European Union such as Germany or France. That is why it is important to have a position in this great globalization dispute, because there is nothing to hide that there is a globalization dispute in economic terms between the United States, China and the European Union... Therefore, our attitude on the unity of the European Union is important here. I do not receive, once again, the right to criticize, to bring my own projects, but the unity of the family in relation to large external disputes should be the Polish right of state. And I have this feeling that we would like to be a little here, a little there, a little here, maybe between the sea, and maybe a little bit better with America, because we don't know what's going to happen with the Union, whether it's going to exist... Therefore, these concerns about the sustainability of our presence in the European Union. This is the end of the performance. And now two words about the senators' speeches. Always discussing with Professor Bobka is a great joy, Professor, but as for a few elements I would like to make a slightly different opinion. First of all, emotions are something that shouldn't happen in politicians, because when emotions come, reason sleeps, as the classic used to say. And certainly people representing the highest offices in Poland should be free of emotion, Professor. And those kind of words about imaginary... and the other statements I quoted shouldn't be explained by emotions. Emotions can be explained by the Prime Minister saying that no roads were built. Well, the court explained it in such a way that it was the emotions associated with election campaigns, but it shouldn't have happened either. As far as the assessment of the rule of law is concerned, it is not just the media As was the case with the senator and Senator Silence. It is not only the media or the opposition that raises the subject of the rule of law in Poland. After all, the Minister has said about the sustainability of the law, about what concerns too much action taken in relation to the sustainability of the law, etc., etc., I will not repeat this. It is about the compatibility of Polish law with the law, which is recognised, or with the principles in the European Union. This is not just the European Commission. We've just been kicked out or suspended, I'm sorry, our participation in the European Judicial Council Network. So what? That's what the media did, too? They suspended our participation for no reason? Well, don't pretend there's no problem. There is a problem, you break the law in the assessment of many people, many politicians, many legal authorities, from constitutional violations to other actions related to the selection of human resources. After all, I was quoting Professor Legutka, who made it clear to me that when we mention staff in the Court, this Court will rule differently, as Senator Cichoń suggested here. Finally, I would like to say that when it comes to what Poles are fighting for, Mr. Senator, I am addressing Senator Silence... There is no doubt that Poland, Poles, representatives of the Polish government should fight for the role of Poland in the European Union and bring various kinds of proposals. Therefore, please answer me the question whether the role of Poland in the European Union thanks to this fight presented today by the Minister has increased or weakened. I have the impression, perhaps wrong, that the position of Poland has clearly weakened. [[Time!]] Therefore, no one here is talking about what is involved in not bringing and not presenting their views within the European Union, simply that we should do it, as the Minister said, not in the words of radicals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u271	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u272	Thank you very much for your questions, your comments, your polemic voices. I think that as far as the United States is concerned, this is an example of a case in which we describe the dispute in question. There is no doubt that this is a dispute It may be harmful to its course. I think that too strong words saying that we are dealing with actions against the European Union, some kind of war, confrontation, are not strict. Surely we are dealing with some solstice, certainly President Trump would like another partnership with the European Union, otherwise he imagines it, certainly not everything is possible, always two sides shape new relationships, and that's all. Poland has no problem with the concept of European unity, because European unity, especially in trade matters, is a necessity. It is a Community policy and it is good that it is because it strengthens us. Only the unity is not that someone comes, presents a view, says that it is the view of unity, and leaves us the role of someone who declares this unity, who claps on this occasion. To build unity is to speak and shape this unity, to shape what is a common position. The common position is one which represents all important, important votes at the table. Unity is not a value in itself. If unity does not transfer the interests of the region, the country, it is worthless, because then we engage our own potential against our own interests. In this sense, it is not that simple with EU policy. In the end, we have success in the form of unity, but before this unity becomes manifest, it often suffers in hardships, often in very visible hardships. In conclusion, I would like to say something else. I think we can be satisfied that we do not have to convince ourselves about the value of the European Union. I believe that you, even from the most opposition areas of this House, feel that neither me nor other people from the government need to convince you what Poland's membership in the European Union is, what is the meaning of integration, what integration is for, and what value it has. But if so, why don't we give up telling stories about polexit, maybe we can give up this rhetoric that's completely isolated from political reality and that arouses emotions that are completely empty? I have recently heard here that the demonstration of this polexit may be a hypothetical failure to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If we had put it this way, it would have turned out that we were closest to polexit at the time of the Citizen Platform and PSL government, because this was the time when the European Commission's complaint concerning the failure of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union started for the only time in the history of Polish membership. It was our government that executed this difficult sentence, which the state had not done for years. If we were to take this argument seriously... But I don't take this argument seriously because I understand it happens. It was a very difficult problem, and there were reasons not to execute that sentence. But don't try to stick to this argument about a case as important as Polish membership of the Union. [[And what was the problem, Minister?]] The problem of implementing the Nitrates Directive, if we have to talk about it... [[Oh, my God, it's so serious.]] Oh, no, no, no, no. Serious, less serious... The economics were serious, but, you know, something else was more serious. The fact that Poland was subject only once during its membership to a procedure, at the initiative of the European Commission, in connection with the failure to implement the judgment. Poland received the judgment and did not implement it That's what I'm talking about. You used this argument, so I'm answering you, let's not base the spectacular on anything either. [[And what year was that if...]] [[Gentlemen...]] Well, the year of your government. [[Mr. Senator, you weren't there when the question was asked.]] [[That's what asks the questions.]] I hope I'm well understood. The point is that we don't base big, spectacular ones on just anything. Maybe it sounds credible to somebody, maybe somebody's listening to us... This is hurting this debate simply. Let's put stories about polexit once and for all between fairy tales for people who like to operate with meaningless, empty arguments. On the other hand, I ask that you do not demand that the European Union be the only public institution in Poland, which is excluded from the right to criticism. Well, there is such a constant trend in the Polish debate that everything can be criticized, you can have an opinion on every subject, but you can't express any critical opinion about the European Union, because it hurts the Polish state's right. This is an absurd approach, and we should end this once and for all. It is precisely censorship that is the last thing that the European Union needs. She doesn't need this. In the open field, let him defend his rations, show us why he does so, not otherwise. Let him do as we all do. In the open field let him defend why he acts like this and not otherwise. A constant reference in this room, taken from the context of various types of quotes from the statements of various politicians, I acknowledge now that I am sure, because nothing more will fall in this room. For the sign of the really chronic powerlessness of the opposition. I was prepared that the state would bravadoly challenge the thesis of information, which is, after all, a very comprehensive document, from my speech, and I have seen the constant repetition of several sentences taken from the context of the last 3 years as an argument. About what? I don't know about that. That's an argument. The most important thing is the statistics of support for the integration process, Poland's membership of the European Union in Poland 86%. This is very much, this is one of the highest indicators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Very much, too, one of the highest indicators. I would like to tell you that you do not need to have a mathematical insight to understand that we are part of this majority. Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, Party Together, United Right, Government and President Andrzej Duda are part of this majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to thank Minister Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for providing information and for the extensive answers to questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and June 2018 (the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union). Are there communications? I'm about to announce a recess. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u274	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the completion of the first reading of the bill on the provision of compensation services will take place tomorrow, 27 September, at 10.30 a.m. in room 176. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted to the Law amending the Law will take place tomorrow at 10.45 in Room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications to the Act amending the Law on Social Insurance Cash Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Publicly-funded Healthcare will be held tomorrow at 9.30 am in room No 179. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. in room 176 at the 60th Senate meeting on the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-26-senat-65-1.u275	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 16]]
