ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Mr Kubov and Mr Rafał Weber. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Rafał Weber. I ask the Member to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u2	Today, an away meeting of the Parliamentary Group - Poland - hydrogen - hour will be held. 14, Katowice, al. Korfanty 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft Pension Law without tax and amending certain other laws (print No 2984). I ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Retired People at the Gallery! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civil Committee a project called a tax-free pension. This project already has its second life in this parliament, in this term of office, because before a year ago the Polish People's Party reported this project and unfortunately it was rejected, mainly by the votes of the governing coalition. This is why a citizens' committee was established on our initiative, at the initiative of the Polish People's Party, and 140,000 signed under this project. Retired and retired, and not only because young people also signed. Today, the situation of pensioners and pensioners is difficult, I would say, very difficult. She's gotten a lot worse in the last few years. Where does this come from? The government forgot about pensioners and pensioners. This is the only group, this is the group that has been most wronged by the rulers in recent years. The value, the amount, the purchasing power of pensions, pensions and all benefits - by the way, I mean all benefits around the pension - this purchasing value has decreased considerably and today pensioners have found themselves in a very difficult material situation. If we look at the structure of pensions and pensions, it is appalling and really disturbing. Most benefits are benefits at the level of PLN 2000. By submitting this proposal, we propose that the pensioner and the pensioner should not pay tax, not pay a health contribution which is closely linked to the tax paid by the pensioner and the pensioner. It is fair, it is fair, and it is expected by pensioners who throughout their adult lives, working hard to pay their contributions, paying their taxes conscientiously and today are being deceived, being lied to. Because we hear very often how much this pensioner gets. The pensioner gets 1100 zlotys gross, but that doesn't mean the pensioner gets that much. The pensioner gets seven hundred and eighty-six, let's not get into the details of gold anymore. And it has at its disposal, and it can have it, and it can go to the store with it, and it can pay its obligations. Unfortunately, valorisation in recent years has not kept pace with inflation. Inflation is faster, inflation is beginning to be galloping, and recent developments and recent forecasts, and even facts, what is happening with regard to the price of electricity, are alarming. Because if electricity prices are to rise by 30%, the question is what should be valorisation. Of course, we also need to look at the structure of the expenditure of pensioners and pensioners. The main expenses, in addition to those for food, are medical expenses and health benefits. Because very often pensioners must also benefit from paid medical benefits due to queues, because of the urgency of the need for such treatment. And if we look at the prices of medicines and their growth, it also translates into a budget burden for pensioners and pensioners. The debt of pensioners and pensioners has increased very rapidly in recent years. To the greatest extent, if we look at all social groups, the debt of pensioners and pensioners increases. This debt is already at the level of about PLN 7 billion and has a growing and accelerating trend. Therefore, the protest of pensioners and pensioners and the demand to realise their benefits which they receive from the State. Because it's something other than valorization. The valorization rate has never been able to keep up, and at the moment, it's not really keeping up with the increase in living costs, because it's inflation plus 20%. Average wage growth. Today, when we look at the rise in wages, the rise in inflation, we'll see that the budget hole in the pensioner's pocket is getting bigger. If we look again at the fact that the valorization rate is calculated on the basis of data from a year ago, we will see that we are two years behind when it comes to the use of funds by pensioners and pensioners. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that valorisation should take place, because it is natural, we propose a one-off realization of pensions and pensions. [[Applause]] This applies to all benefits: the lowest ones and the highest ones. Of course, there will be questions: How can we do this? Where do you get the money? The money, ladies and gentlemen, is, only need to be managed rationally. Pensioners very often point to the money that is today, these irrational, uncontrolled expenses. Retirement without tax is also a major simplification of the accounts. Why? Because a pensioner won't have to file a PIT, he won't have to ask someone to do that to him. It's less administration, less administrative burden, so we already have savings here. They may not be big, but it gives you a sense of social justice. This is very important today. We are talking about civil society. Retirists and pensioners feel the most citizens of our country, because they have worked their entire lives here in Poland. They didn't usually go abroad, they worked here for our country. Today, if our country is often unable to sustain them, they have the right to have a grudge against it. That is why the Polish People's Party came up with this initiative. We thank the pensioners and the Renticists for reacting so spontaneously to our response. We empathize with this difficult situation and I think the High Sejm will lean on this proposal, because by then no one will lie to anyone, he said: You have 1,1000. zł, you have 1.5 thousand. zł benefits... No. If you do, that's what you get in your pocket, with that kind of money, you go to the store and buy that much. Of course, this will not be the end of these needs yet, because the needs and expenses are certainly greater, especially for the elderly, especially for those who, as I said earlier, require increased medical care, greater spending on medicines. Is that something new? No, because some European countries use this method. An example perhaps the simplest and most eloquent: Hungarians. Out of them today we take an example, you take the state of government, on a daily basis. Jota in jota copy Hungarian solutions. Hungarians introduced and applied such solutions in 1995. And that's in Europe. Therefore, take an example, ladies and gentlemen, from what the Hungarians do, and the pensioners will be grateful to you. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Our country forgot about the pensioners today. Retired people say, "You've forgotten about us." Why did you forget about us? You're mocking us because there's money for everything. Of course, there is a need for money for children to support families, but there can be no difference here. Someone's out there, they've done their job, and they don't need it anymore. We're gonna give it to him for vegetation, once a year we're gonna say it's worth a few zlotys, and that's it. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants, those who have signed up for this project, who want to take care of the decent life of pensioners and pensioners, I request, please and call on the High House, and I call on the government: Lean down on the pensioners, lean down on the pensioners. [[Applause]] This isn't a political bill because the retirees are on the right side... [[More on the right, I think.]] ...and downtown, and to the left. Retired people are. Retired people will be. Each of us, if we live, because life is getting harder and more complicated, will be this pensioner and will also face this dilemma, the question: Why do you not want to protect me from a decent life, a decent old age, a worthy living? Why do you despise me? That's what retired people say, what we'll see if we read all the comments that come out. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to thank you, honourable pensioners, who listen, watch who you are at the gallery, for your work, for your efforts, for your dedication to your health to Poland. The Polish People's Party conducts a pro-social policy at all times, aimed at supporting all social groups. We've shown that many times. Yesterday here, in this room, we were talking about an hour for the family. For our grandchildren, for our children, it is important that they be able to raise future generations with dignity. But when we think about the future, let us not forget what has already been done, what has been done in Poland, who has rebuilt Poland, who has fought for independence, who has borne all these sacrifices. Therefore, once again, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal and ask you to lean on this project because it is a good project. If there are imperfections here, and the Social Security Office actually shows them, these are inaccuracies, things that can be easily repaired during the legislative process. Don't let it be like the last time that the minister turns out to be... [[Voice from the room: Speaker.]] ...talk and say you can't bring it in because the IT system won't take it. ZUS says we need nine months. We agree on that. There you go, let's adopt at this moment a law that will enter into force on the wrong date, which has been written down there, because we have filed this project a long time ago. Let it enter into force next year, but let's accept it right now, let's proceed to it. And that'll be a good solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone, and once again I ask for a substantive debate on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u5	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u6	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the draft Pension Law without tax and the amendment of certain other laws. The project concerns the elimination of the burden on pensioners and pensioners of personal income tax and health insurance contributions. The authors of the project calculated that the entry into force of the Act would reduce the revenue to the state budget from personal income tax by about PLN 15 billion and from health insurance contributions - by about PLN 20 billion, which in total gives an amount of nearly PLN 35 billion. In order to cover the reduced revenue from the health contribution, the projectors oblige the state budget, but do not indicate the sources of coverage for the reduced income tax revenue. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that revenue to the budget will be increased by an increase in VAT revenue, but without the amount indicated. In the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office on the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law, we read the conclusion that the proposed solution is incompatible with Article. 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality. The draft was negatively assessed by the NSZZ National Commission Bureau (Solidarity). The opinion states: It would be discriminatory to grant tax exemptions only to the pension benefit group regardless of the amount of the benefit. Moreover, the draft law may be considered contrary to Article. 84 Constitution, which states that everyone is obliged to bear public burdens and benefits, including taxes. The burden of income tax is part of social solidarity. End of quote. The bill was submitted by a group of citizens, but it is companyd by the Polish People's Party. It is about the same Polish People's Party, which, as far back as we can remember, has participated in the exercise of power and held responsibility for the state in its hands. [[That's not true.]] The same Polish People's Party had two labour ministers in its ranks and a parliamentary majority on its side. [[Applause]] Only then you allowed the Poles to raise their retirement age and agreed to patch the budget gap with the OFE money. You have repeated to the Platform that there is no money for social projects and there will be no money, and Poles have paid the price for the fact that PSL ruled alongside the Platform and earlier with the SLD. Today you are looking for money for your unrealized VAT projects, on which you closed your eyes, and the state budget lost over PLN 260 billion. The Government of Law and Justice has proved that it cares about pensioners and pensioners, that it cares about seniors. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] In one of the first laws that we introduced after we took over, we raised the lowest pension benefits from PLN 800 to PLN 1000. We have restored the early retirement age, we are implementing programmes addressed to seniors, including, of course, pensioners and pensioners. We also introduced a free drug program for people over 75 years of age. [[Voice from the room: Fiction.]] It was used by 2,400 thousand. people, and since the beginning of its operation a total of PLN 1260 million has been spent. We are pursuing a responsible social and pension policy. We are introducing new solutions, such as employee capital plans. For 2019 the value of pension benefits was planned for a total amount of nearly PLN 8.5 billion. This is real support for this social group because it is important to us. If the improvement of the quality of life of pensioners and pensioners really lie in the hearts of PSL Members, the benefits of this social group today would be much higher. High Seym! Given that the submission is a civil project, out of respect for the group of citizens who signed the project, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice directs the bill to further work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Sejm.]] [[The Sejm is in charge.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u7	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u8	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At this point, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, but I do not see where they are. [[But not so loud, 'cause your ears are swelling.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u9	I ask you to remain calm, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u10	Where is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, a face full of clichés, in the election campaign willingly showing up with seniors? Where's Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydło? I think it's a little too cold to go down the Danube. Perhaps the campaign for the European Parliament has begun? But I would like to remind Mrs Szydło here that you are paid by the Deputy Prime Minister for attending meetings such as this, during the discussion about the situation of 9 million Polish seniors, pensioners and pensioners. There was no room for seniors at that podium. The first decision of the Marshal of the Sejm was to expel the Senior Parliament from the Civil Parliament. They thought they couldn't hold this kind of discussion for four years. But there are projects. These projects were in March, when the Civic Platform club presented the program, the pension project without PIT, when the Polish People's Party club presented its pension project without tax, and today we return to this topic. Because you often say what the face of Polish poverty has, and today in this place it is necessary to say: Polish poverty has the face of a Polish pensioner, [[Applause]] a pensioner who is not a claimer, a pensioner who buys less, because he has less in his purse or wallet, a pensioner who humbly leaves at the pharmacy when he cannot fulfill the prescription. This is a real problem. [[Michael Honestly's face.]] And on the other hand, we have here to confront this with this government, which today is a great absentee. We're dealing with power privileges, Byzantine habits. Recently we heard that the head of the Prime Minister's Office flew a government plane to Wroclaw for political negotiations. 40,000. zł. How many pensions is that? How many years does a Polish pensioner have to wait to get that amount? High Izbo! At this point it must be said that this discussion and this project, which is to be exempt from income tax, from social contributions to pensions, is a project of dignity. 90% their income retirees spend on food, housing and medicine. Prices are rising as crazy and most affected by Polish seniors. The yeast is felt every day in shops, in the pharmacy, in housing bills. Does the High House know how much the value of pensions was in 2017? It was less valuable than the price of one lump of butter. 10 zł The increase was received by those whose benefits did not exceed 2272,93 zł. Ten zlotys of valorization, one cube of butter. Remember that. We're sick of this mantra that you've done well for the retirees, that there's 75-plus medications. Ask the pensioners how many drugs they can buy under this program. Why does this program only apply to pensioners over 75 years of age? Does the High House know what the average age of a man's life is in our country? 73 years old. Most of us won't live to be that old, 75 years old. This is an absolutely dramatic situation. What's next? Throwing 28 hospital geriatric troops out of the hospital network, queues to specialists, to hospitals. Seniors wait weeks to see a doctor of POW, for months to a cardiologist, for years to implant hip replacements, for cataract surgery. What did you do last year? The last session of the Sejm, one of the last meetings of the Sejm - you took 49 million PLN from the program of free medicines for people over 75 years of age. And where did you put it? For television propaganda, for the TV Journal... [[Lie!]] ...on Earth, on the Hole. [[Applause]] All those faces of propaganda. [[Don't lie to me.]] That's where the money went, that's where nearly 50 million zlotys went, not for a pensioner... [[A voice from the room: True!]] ...not in his wallet. Let's keep that in mind. This project is absolutely necessary. [[$1,200 million.]] This project is absolutely expected. And the honourable Member will not drown out those words of the pensioners who signed up for this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform - Coalition Club will support and support this project in the committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the proposed law, the citizens' draft Retirement Law without tax and the amendment of some other laws from print No. 2984. First of all, we are in favour of this, of course, because it is a citizens' project. As far as we are concerned, we have no doubt - 140 thousand. People signed on to this project. Previously, this project was submitted by PSL. I can only say this - this project could have been implemented, as you were... as Mr. Chairman was Minister. It wasn't implemented. That's a basic charge. [[Bravo!]] [[The crisis was, the crisis was.]] However, it is undoubtedly a necessary project, without a doubt Polish pensioners, the pensioners are a group that actually lives in extreme poverty all the time. The statistics of the CSO say that it has decreased slightly. In 2012 it was 30% of people over 50 who live in extreme poverty, at the moment we have 27% But it's still a lot. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a discussion about the essence of taxes. To pay taxes to be solidarity, you have to have something to do. If anyone has $1,000. zł, and the CSO hopes that in order to survive in Poland, a person who lives alone, for basic needs, for food, for drugs, really at least, needs 1.4 thousand. zł... If we're talking about the fact that she's still going to share, pay taxes, and be solidarity, then where is the logic here, like such a person doesn't have basic needs, for life. Really, you have to pay taxes to have something to share. Retirists and pensioners in Poland have nothing to share, because they have just less than the minimum social, they have as much as the minimum existence. It's really very little. Ladies and gentlemen! If we're talking about taxes here, if we're talking about who's paying and the privileges of power, then what I'm saying is... Before me, Mr Szczerba had a fiery speech, an emotional speech about the privileges of power. [[Voice from the room: Nothing else.]] Let me put it this way - the case would solve one thing. Your demands, Platforms, PSL, demands of Law and Justice before they were in power: above all, raising the tax-free amount. [[Applause]] Members have 30,000. the amount of tax-free, these are privileges, the average citizen - 3 000. There are also pensioners and pensioners in this group. Why didn't you do this earlier? Why is the Law and Justice not doing so now? I mean, that would solve the situation. They pay their taxes. It is also about the postulate that was included, or the opinion of BAS, which says that there will be injustice regarding the fact that those who have high pensions... [[The beneficiaries.]] ...you will also be released, which may be unfair. The tax-free amount is to treat everyone equally, including those who work all the time and are also poor because they pay taxes and have 1.3 thousand. net zloty in the pocket. The tax-free amount, at least as much as Members have, will be the elimination of privileges. It would be best in Poland, my dear country, and this would completely change the political situation. I do not know if you would all be sitting here, in this parliament, if everyone who pays taxes in Poland would receive them in their account, and then every month, they would have to pay them off. They'd see how much tax you're taking and how you really distribute it. There's no discussion here about savings. In previous justifications it was that the ZUS would have to adapt the system. The first case, ladies and gentlemen, whether anyone was interested in the fact that the Social Security Office pays around 400 million a year, looks different, sometimes 800 million a year, for the maintenance of the IT system itself and the system is still inefficient. After all, these are ridiculous expenses, that is about the amount of the contribution paid by all companies, single-person activities in Poland. We didn't discuss it, we didn't discuss it in the previous term. This country is too expensive, and this is what expensive countries pay for, among other things. Retirists and pensioners. It is absolutely important to discuss this issue, but to discuss rationally, to discuss the reduction of expenditure, to give these people, above all, to pensioners and pensioners, to a decent life, because unfortunately they do not have this money. We are talking about justice, we are talking about health contributions, please note how unfair it is, for example. payment of double contributions. It is also paid by pensioners and pensioners, although they should be exempt from it, but those who work, sometimes on contracts, have activities, pay double, triple. Do they have extra benefits for this? They don't, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So... this is solidarity, not the taking back of this contribution from people who have paid it conscientiously all their lives. Of course, we will be in favour of continuing this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u13	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u14	My dear Miss Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Retirement and Retirement! People of the Glorious Age! We especially greet those present at the gallery today. [[67 years old.]] Despite the change in the date of the meeting, the changes in the date of consideration of this item are with us today. We greet everyone and thank thousands of people in Poland who supported the pension project without contributions, without taxes. Retirement and pension for all, not for the chosen. We are very grateful for your commitment, for the fact that you have created a real social movement related to the project, which is a measure of today's justice towards those of a dignified age. This project will be introduced either in this term of office or in the next one, and I am able to promise you today, [[Applause]] Promise. I will do everything I can to get this project to be adopted, because it's just for people of dignified age. [[Applause]] [[67+.]] And we will not heed the voices of those who have promised you much. Sometimes they encourage cooperation and they say - let's talk programming... [[67+.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...but even within five minutes of the show, they can't get rid of their aggression... [[Voice from the hall: Quiet there!]] [[But why the silence?]] ... envy and hatred. I don't think they can live without it. Don't mind them. I know you are afraid that the parliamentary majority today represented by the governing party will not accept this project in this term of office, but we will not rest. We did not give up, as they rejected at first reading, in the presence of one Member in the applicant's chamber, later in the vote they rejected the pension for the first time without tax, without contributions. We have repeated this with you, ladies and gentlemen, together with citizens of the Republic of Poland, who know what they need most today. If we've managed to take care of the children... We, you see, are different from you, dear PiS, that we can say the good word about you that 500+ is good. You cannot see annual parental leave, senior policy, quota valorisation - 71 PLN in 2012, all actions for young people and the labour market. You've never seen it before. This boot of yours and contempt for other thinkers just confirms it all. But if you've managed to take care of the children, then you have to take care of the seniors now, my dears. [[Applause]] They need this support most today. They will be affected by an increase in electricity prices, they have experienced a 98% increase in the price of butter, eggs - by 89%, yogurt - by 37%, flour - by 31%, or basic nutritional products. They're the ones who experience it the most. The valorization of 5 PLN, which Michał Szczerba referred to in 2016, was not enough for one cube of butter. It's a shame and a disgrace because we don't care about 10 million citizens of this country. This is the group that needs support most today. You guys know that. But I'll also quote to you what retired people say, because their voice is the most important thing today. Mr Stanisław, Płock: I support. I already paid the tax once. Why should I pay a second tax on the money I've earned? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Mrs. Anna, Inchew: I agree. There was supposed to be a higher tax-free amount, but there should be a tax-free pension. Ms. Renata, Lezajsk: Who wouldn't? It is known, however, that the PiS has the majority and may not be able to vote this super idea. Mrs. Ania, Słupsk: Maybe they'll back us up. They know and know what kind of money we're living with. Mrs. Maria, Mielec: I support and this is the way it should be. All the time we've been working, we've been paid taxes, so now we have to be relieved without any kind of grace. [[Mr. Władysław...]] [[Solidarity...]] Mrs. Wanda, East: We would be very relieved in our daily lives. This is not the voice of politicians, my friends, it is the voice of thousands of people and such opinions appear at every meeting. The voice of the thousands of people behind this project. Take this into account, don't freeze it on the committee. That's why we went with the civic project because we knew that he would at least go to committee. But the freeze on the committee It's not a solution. We'll check it out, we'll do anything. We will continue to collect signatures under petitions to oblige you and to reassure you that it is worth supporting pensioners and pensioners for the common good today. Don't be afraid of it. Have the courage. It's really worth doing something together. Prime Minister Morawiecki encourages cooperation, says that the opposition does not have a project. This is the best proof that the opposition has projects and has civic support for its projects. Last but not least, I understood that when you entered the Sejm, you were the only ones who were just, but after 3 years, with 40 Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You haven't pushed any of your projects, [[Applause]] So don't tell me and don't point out any mistakes. And don't just look at what maybe it hasn't been done, but also see what 30 PSL Members have done in their previous terms, [[Applause]] how many projects he was able to push through. Really, a little human warmth. I'm asking because that's what Poland needs today. Please support this project. We're not gonna give up, we're gonna retire without tax. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u15	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern. [[67.]] [[Voice from the room: What about the money on the OFE?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb!]] [[Don't scream!]] I ask you to remain calm, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u16	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Mrs. Member of the First Rule! Membership! Imagine it's already 300,000. Seniors live on the verge of existence. 300,000. people, women and men. It's hard for us to imagine a hungry situation that reaches into a purse every day and counts the last pennies and dollars, whether it's enough for butter, bread, or enough for medicine. Gentlemen! It's not funny. We're talking about people who've worked their whole lives, women and men who walk away from a doctor, from a pharmacy that can't afford to be rehabilitated. Seniors in 2017 were the group of people who have been deprived the most. This indicator has just increased to 300,000. persons. And we are living in a time, ladies and gentlemen, when the cost of living is growing faster and faster, at an alarming rate. I mean, food, we pay more for housing, and seniors have their needs, they get sick, they have to spend on drugs, doctors, rehabilitation. However, retirement is often not enough even for food. Pensioners in Poland have PLN 7.3 billion in debts. Why? The main reason is the medical expenses. According to studies 66% Seniors surveyed indicated that money from loans or loans was spent on drugs. 34% for private treatment and rehabilitation. Retired people are also inclined to borrow much more often to help their family than to finance their own needs or pleasures. Hungry pensions are a serious problem in Poland. These poorest seniors are all the more in need of galloping expensive. Since January electricity bills will be more expensive, they will pay more of their bills, but these bills will also affect food prices. And pensions grow symbolically. The project we are currently investigating concerns the elimination of the burden on pensioners and pensioners of personal income tax and health insurance contributions. Retirement will increase in real terms because they will increase by nearly 20%, which means a few hundred more zlotys a month to spend. Several hundred zlotys are money for treatment, this is money for private doctors, because sometimes there is no access to geriatric doctors in the public system. It's money for drugs, for rehabilitation, it's money for food, so that these people can actually eat healthy. It's money so they can get out of the house so they can go to the coffee shop so they can go to the movies sometimes so they don't get locked up in four walls. It's money so they can think about getting out of the apartment at all and changing this apartment. Because if they're people with disabilities, they live on the upper floor, they're locked in their four walls, they're prisoners. Prisoners of poverty, prisoners of poverty. These are people who have worked their entire lives, and what they expect from us is solidarity with them, solidarity with those who have worked and who want to live normal lives. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - I know that there are a million other expenses - but let us focus on those who really need this help who deserve this help. Let us act - clear - so that they work as long as possible, but if they can't, they have to get a decent pension. Let us think about how huge is the difference between men and women's pensions, which is up to 30%. These are the limits of existence, the limits of poverty. It is our duty, it is our duty, it is our duty, it is our duty, it is our duty, it is our duty, it is our duty to help these people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u17	Thank you, Member. And please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the citizens' draft Retirement Law without tax and on amending certain other laws. The proposal provides for the abolition of income tax and health insurance contributions for persons taking up a pension. For the second time, we have the opportunity to discuss the solutions contained in this amendment and, unfortunately, for the second time, it turns out that these solutions contain significant shortcomings, both substantive and legislative. The idea of this project is very right in my opinion. I am convinced that the implementation of its provisions in many cases would greatly facilitate the monthly tightening of the household budget of older people. However, in order to effectively design such solutions, precise financial estimates and inter-ministerial activities are needed, many people need to work and many specialists need to know. Care must be taken to ensure that none of the pension benefits available are left out, as well as to secure the state budget and to adapt the IT system of the Social Security Office. I am pleased that we are once again discussing in this House the subject of seniors and their proposed support, because that support is needed, that no one needs to be persuaded, but it must be thought over and refined so that the objectives set can be achieved without any doubt. Looking at the achievements of the current government in the area of social policy towards the elderly, I have no doubt that the actions are not carried out solely with a view to an election campaign. The proposed changes have been implemented for 3 years and the solutions have been modernised. The objectives are to improve the quality of life of our seniors in terms of both access to health services and the socio-financial situation. I have said many times that, despite the sincere desire, everything cannot be done immediately, and actions in the field of senior policy are long-term actions. Despite my negative opinion on this amendment, given that it is a citizens' project, I say that next to Free and Solidarnia it will vote in favour of further proceedings on it in the committee. I trust that an in-depth discussion of its regulations will contribute to the development of further effective solutions for the elderly. I also have a huge request. Let us actually focus on the seniors, the people who most need our help, but in such a way that this is a substantive discussion. Let's stop complaining about what was done or what wasn't done. I would like to ask for a substantive discussion on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Retirement! The citizens' draft Retirement Law, without tax, has the right assumption of exemption from tax and health contributions. This shows that pensioners are present in our offices very often. This may apply to different subjects, but every time there is also a question about when there will be higher pensions or when there will be a tax exemption, health contributions, especially in the case of the lowest pensions. That is why I have been speaking on several occasions to the representatives of the government, to the Minister of Finance. And I have to say that every time the answer is very short: the government doesn't anticipate work. I would therefore like to thank the initiators very warmly for this project. And although I am alone as a non-member, certainly now, and in the future I will always vote for such projects to go through. [[Applause]] On the other hand, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the BAS and to the provision that speaks of non-compliance with the article. 18 of the Treaty in view of the fact that these exemptions are intended to apply to pensioners who are retiring in Poland and from Polish funds. On the other hand, we must remember that we are in the European Union and there are also citizens in Poland, Polish pensioners who receive pensions or foreign pensions, as well as European Union citizens who live in Poland permanently, which should be taken into account. I am talking about this because I represent a region where a large proportion of pensioners also collect pensions from other sources than Poland. And I'd like to overthrow one myth, a myth that says that these are powerful pensions. It's not exactly like that, it's also low retirement. In the past, I also applied to the Polish authorities to solve some problems, for example, the fact that health contributions were doubled: and on the foreign side, and here in Poland. We've managed to get some things straightened out. That is why I would ask that we work on this project, and I think we will work on it, and we will also take into account provisions which will not interfere with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union. Finally, I have one request. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not talk about the past, let's not talk about 8 years, let's talk about 3 years. [[Why shouldn't we?]] [[Why not?]] Mr President, we are the Sejm, who is to work and give good projects. [[Applause]] I'd like us to sit down and do good projects, [[Applause]] because so far we are working very quickly, very badly, as even the posts that concern us, Members, show. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And we do good projects.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Jakubiak, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it from the heart: solidarity is not a writing on drops, it is not a political group, it is not a trade union. Solidarity must be in place and solidarity must apply to people who, among other things, are: They're sitting at the gallery today, which I welcome. Solidarity must result from some kind of moral obligation of every working Pole to maintain his closest seniors. And that is the duty of the country that we must fulfil. Clearly, pushing this into politics is a kind of vulgarity to me. I don't think we should discuss this at all. These people, our fathers and our mothers, should live a decent life. If I hear from the Ministry of Social Policy that we've raised pensions to $1,000. zł, this is actually a mockery, because we are talking, first of all, about the gross amount, and this brings to the ground - to 800 zł. I want to tell you that a refugee in Germany gets an allowance that is almost five times higher. [[But it was 800 gross.]] So... [[That's what PSL left behind.]] I would therefore like to say that our discussions are vain. Our pensioners must live a decent life. If we can do it like this... [[We agree on that.]] ...with 140 grand. The signatures that bring us to earth... I would like to say that when it comes to paying income tax on amounts earned decades earlier, the State has been trading these taxes for decades and it is now purely unfair to collect these amounts from pensioners. I do not remember when this was introduced, but in Poland there have never been any contributions in respect of income tax on pensions. It's some kind of new fashion 20 years ago. To tell you the truth, let's not go this way. The amount should be paid, the pensioner shouldn't have any trouble paying off any PITs, combinations, putting the pensioner in trouble at all. The pensioner should be given the amount he deserves and is the result of his hard work. And that's our duty - to make it happen. And once again, the minimum amount we're introducing today is over 2,000. This minimum amount should also be available for pensioners. It doesn't seem to be any great overzealousness on my part, and in no way can it qualify as, I don't know, some populism. These are the amounts that you can just live for. Today, Ms. Agnieszka Chasing talked about the fact that along with medications it costs 1,400 PLN today. So how do we do it without family help? And yet these people have worked their whole lives, it's no mercy. We must pay pensions for which we can simply live decently, as we do all over Europe. If we are talking about Europe, we are always implementing the law against us. And it can now implement this European phenomenon into Poland and pay at least the same amount as refugees are getting from the German government - 500 euros. Count it, times 4.2. That's $2,000. with a hook calmly retired would suffice as a net amount, not gross. Ladies and gentlemen, there's one more way to go. This is a way that would also apply to most citizens. This is a tax-free amount of 30,000. zł. You may all seem surprised, but I want to tell you that Germany has a tax-free amount of 28,000, the French - 57,000, and the Spanish, please, will not believe - 75,000. zł. That's a tax-free amount. Then we can talk about paying income tax. And this amount without tax would affect the pockets of both pensioners and the least earners in Poland. I ask myself: Is it a lot, or is it not enough? Of course, you can immediately argue that this is a giant amount, after all, today we have only 8,000. PLN per year. This applies to people who earn 500 PLN a month, so this is a way to have a populist approach to the subject. $30,000. zł would solve the problem of poverty in these poorest regions when it comes to income of Polish citizens, including pensioners. Perhaps it would be necessary to see such a matter, much wider, because in Poland people want to live a decent life and not go abroad every time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Majka, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The picture of the Polish pension is as follows. Namely, the first President of the Supreme Court will be given 2,000 today. PLN more, 27 thousand. plus 2,000, and that will be the amount of the pension, President of the Constitutional Tribunal - 22,000. PLN per month, plus 2100 raises. That's at least 18,000. zł pension. This is an outrage to me. It's a picture of Polish retirement to talk about [[♪ The bell ♪]] The retirees knew. As far as this is concerned, I support the bill submitted by the Polish People's Party. In my opinion, such a law should not be political in nature. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! It's about time we hit the alarm - the alarm also caused by what I was talking about in my speech. [[You didn't have to do that before?]] It's a crazy cost that affects mostly pensioners and pensioners. [[Voice from the room: What happened before?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since the new year electricity prices have been rising. This situation will mainly affect the elderly. It will also touch 32,000. persons who are located in care and treatment facilities. There are fixed tariffs, there are fixed rates per person per day. If electricity prices rise, there will be less food, more treatment, more staff. This is a very serious threat. According to the data we have from the Polish Towns Association, these increases will affect 80% bets. At the moment, the prices in the new tenders, which are run by local governments, are the prices by 55%. Bigger. It's less money for food, worse staff, worse care. Get out of the way. Let those raises that await us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They won't touch those who are the hardest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u27	Thank you very much. Magdalena Ewa Marek, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u28	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating the citizens' pension project without tax. I have a question. Is the government going to help pensioners? Does the government intend to help pensioners when energy prices rise? This is directly linked to the prices of all products, especially food and industrial products. Next year, prices will rise dramatically. This may not be felt in the first quarter, but it will be felt by everyone, including pensioners, throughout the whole year. How will the government compensate for the loss of purchasing power of such low pensions? The main argument in favour of the introduction of a civil project is, above all, to restore dignity to our parents, grandparents, all the elderly. They worked hard for pensions all their lives and already put their money away in the ZUS, they had deducted taxes and other charges that accompanied the payment. Therefore, they should not be charged a second time. Retired people are often people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] sick people are people who can't afford to see a private doctor often, so they're waiting in multi-month queues. I think that in free Poland it is time to give to pensioners what belongs to them, i.e. pensions and pensions without any fees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u29	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of Polish pensioners is dramatic. We watch it as doctors in our hospitals before every Christmas. Branches are filled with older people who can't afford a Christmas machine that can't afford to buy goods that don't have money or pay drugs if they stay at home or have a decent life. That is why this law is undoubtedly worthy of support in all respects. As it has been said here, these pensioners can't afford a private doctor either. In their case, health care is actually very difficult despite 75+, which covered only a drop in the sea of the expenses that an elderly person incurs for his treatment. 35 billion, which would have cost them tax and levy exemption [[♪ The bell ♪]] health contributions, I'm sure they'll be included in the state budget. And here is the question to the government and to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: Would it help older people instead of spending it on many other things? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u31	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u32	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! As for the fact that the economic situation of most pensioners is difficult to say, dramatic, it is not necessary to convince anyone in this room. In the last 3 years under the rule of law and justice, as the applicant's representative has said, inflation has exceeded the valorisation and therefore the situation of pensioners and pensioners is getting worse. Yesterday, here in this room, we discussed that the government has agreed to increase electricity prices by several dozen percent since next year. This will make companies pay more, but the costs will include goods and services, so the situation of pensioners and pensioners will worsen even more. According to the data available to me, the number of pensioners living in extreme poverty under the rule of Law and Justice in 2017 increased by almost 13% compared to 2016. I'm asking the Minister if he confirms this data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I would like to ask your representative whether the bill will contribute to improving the situation of pensioners. Even Mrs Borowiak said that this law gives 35 billion PLN to their pockets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska... Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly 80% of Poles want to exempt pensioners from taxes, and they are not only seniors, because there is simply a need to increase their pension by several hundred zlotys. Today, pensions are hungry and this is a big problem for poor seniors. [[They're higher than the Platform.]] They are devastated by the galloping increase in the price of basic products necessary for life, services and medicines. Since January, the price of electricity will increase, which means more increases, and pensions will increase symbolically. How can we help the seniors? This is one of the ways, tax exemption. I'm sure the PiS government will reject the bill, even after the committee's work, but it will be voted out and rejected. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's done was done.]] [[We're headed for the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u35	Ladies, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u36	Every month, the Social Security Office deducts 20% from the pension on taxes. This is the fifth part of the senior budget. That is why I ask the Minister: What will change in the value of pensions in 2019, what changes will there be in pensions? Is it true that the minimum pension [[♪ The bell ♪]] will increase by approx. 70 PLN? It's hard for a pensioner to live for 1100 zlotys, pay rent, media, buy drugs, and still have a modest experience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was easier for 800 zlotys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u37	Thank you very much, Member. I would very much like to ask for peace in the Chamber so as not to disturb the Members asking questions. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I was curiously waiting for the rapporteur to speak from Law and Justice. I welcome the proposal to continue to proceed on this project... [[I am not the rapporteur, Madam President.]] A representative of the parliamentary club. ...and I believe that you will fulfill your obligation. I believe that we will all be actively involved in this work, because we are all aware of the challenges facing us, and they concern the peaceful everyday life of Polish seniors. It will also be actively involved in this work by a group of Members implementing the Polish senior programme with which I came all over Poland. We were in almost every district and presented our proposals, including a non-tax pension proposal. We have also listened attentively to all the proposals made by the seniors themselves. But we also believe that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Rafalska will be involved in this work, who at the beginning of this year, copying the solutions from our program, Poland senior, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have made a declaration of good proposals for this social group, and although it has been almost a year, they have done nothing. So maybe now this civic project will be such a motivation for them to join the joint work for Polish seniors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u39	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the government to stop collecting pension taxes because they are now the poorest group of Poles. Plus, the rise in the price of all medicines, there are actually no drugs that wouldn't cost the elderly any more. Of course, I know that this project is very expensive, but this will also result in higher VAT revenues, because it will be about PLN 5 million. Thanks to the extra money we do not take from pensioners, consumption will increase and, consequently, economic growth will increase. Prime Minister Szydło! I wish you were here because you're responsible for this whole problem. After all, pensions have already been taxed when paying health contributions in the working years of pensioners. [[That's not true.]] And now, for the second time, they're being taxed when they pay their pensions. Do you think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that fair to Polish pensioners is taking them 20% Retirement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Retirement benefits need to be taken care of, but not in this way. I would like to ask the applicant whether you have warned the signatories to this proposal that giving up the taxation of pension benefits means that there is no reason to deduct social security contributions from income when calculating the tax during the working life. This will mean a reduction in net income during the period of employment, because the rate of taxation of income will then be higher And you're gonna have to pay the tax a long time ago. This is an unfavorable solution for tax-payers throughout their life together, i.e. both during their working lives and during their retirement. I would also like to ask you if you consider it appropriate to exempt more than 5 000 from the pension tax. zł, and burden it [[♪ The bell ♪]] benefits for the performance of work at the level of the minimum wage. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish is personally responsible for taking over funds from the OFE to raise pensions... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and so he shouldn't, there's no moral right to criticize other groups that aren't responsible for it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u43	Thank you very much, Member. And here you are, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Retirement! I'll say a few words. He's also retired. I've prepared a speech, but I don't know if it's gonna be... Listening to my predecessors, representatives of various parties, I felt that new good benefactors were born. Where have you been all these years? Where have you been? Did you remember the retirees? [[Three years you've been here.]] It's time to bury it, it's time to get back on the ground, it's time to think about pensioners... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and about the children, but mostly about the pensioners who worked for the development of this country. How do they live today? The crumbs from your table are getting nothing. It's not enough for a decent life. I remember other retired people from other countries going on vacation, husband and wife. Unfortunately, we don't have it, our pensioners can't afford it. They're watching us survive, they're missing meds, they're looking at rents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do we survive here? I have another brief question: Why doesn't his spouse get some part of his pension after his death so that he can live a decent life? You can also think about it - it's such a word for applicants - to get that part after your spouse dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'm afraid you lied. Mrs Chasing on behalf of the Kukiz club15 said that we are in favour of the bill, which is why I am surprised that you have been ensnared by such malice. And why did you lie? Because we've pushed through several billing projects, e.g. on tricycles, so that people with disabilities can move such vehicles on the basis of category B. Another project - about the liquidation of political offices in the local government. Another - as a club we requested the introduction of medical marijuana, also effectively. There have also been theft of projects, such as the one about personal cameras for the police, the project by Paweł Szramka, as well as entries in the development of the project concerning direct sales. We also supported your project in this reading. Therefore, if you are talking about some elegance and truth, start with yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u47	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u48	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There was to be humility and work, and what are retired people watching today? The pride and arrogance of power. They suffer from the social sensitivity of this political option. For many pensioners, the monthly salary of the PiS minister is almost an annual pension. [[And the Minister of the Platform?]] For many, the prime minister's salary or reward is a five-year pension. Are you aware, Minister, that in 2018 the minimum pension is only 50% Minimum wage? You've funded one power market law, you've funded co-generation, you're adding another item to the electricity bill -- that's another increase. Increases that will soon reach the pensioners. Today's proposal, Minister, is the solution to this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not any compensation affecting only energy gains. What about the food, what about the drugs, what about the services? The price of all this will rise when the price of electricity rises. Take this bill and vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 9 million seniors expect this bill, expecting that the Polish Sejm will accept a project which for a long time, for at least 3 years, I hear that it is important that the Polish government actually wants to help Polish seniors. So, in fact, all the clubs have spoken very positively about this project, with the exception of Mrs Borowiak, who says... [[That's a lie.]] ...that this project is discrimination. [[That's a lie. Don't lie to me.]] So I wonder, Mrs and Minister, whether discrimination is how the current government treats Polish seniors, giving them access to a doctor. Is discrimination a way in which it favours benefits that are received by seniors and is therefore inconsistent with inflation, and this simply means that they are not sufficient for basic products, for food? Is it discrimination that you've been talking about help for three years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Polish families, eliminating from these families Polish seniors, forcing them to live on a bowl of rice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u51	Thank you very much. In corrigendum - Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. I'm asking for some peace and quieter conversations in the O.R. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is evident that a member of the PO-KO club who had just spoken did not read the bill, but did not read the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. The conclusion of the opinion on compliance and in this case of non-compliance with European Union law is precisely the issue of discrimination. This is also the opinion of the National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), in which the national committee goes further, indicating that the project may be incompatible with Article. 84 constitutions. That's all I said. To you Members who are so involved in political discussions, I would first like to ask you to read the documents on a specific bill. And please do not speak falsely and not put such words into my mouth, because I do not know what your statement was dictated by. Probably to share a society. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is your domain. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u53	Thank you. And now you can ask your question. Here you go, Member, now the question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Many lies from the opposition Members have fallen here, from this speaker: the rulers have forgotten about the pensioners, they are being deceived today. Is the situation of pensioners today, with emphasis on today, dramatic? Ladies and gentlemen of the Platform, and above all of the PSL, this is the result of your negligence and omissions over the years. [[Applause]] Please don't say such words today: let's move on, let's not talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to take care of pensioners, today it would not be necessary to introduce such a law to the committee. The Government of Law and Justice cares about pensioners, cares about pensioners. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] You left their salaries at 800 PLN gross.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u55	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u56	And you wanted them to live a decent life for it. And today you say that the salary increases that [[♪ The bell ♪]] He introduced the Law and Justice Government, that's not enough. Minister! Please tell the parliamentary opposition once again what the Government of Law and Justice has done to support pensioners and pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] [[Voice from the room: State on yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u57	Thank you. I'm asking you to calm down. [[Voice from the room: Only one senior cares.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Gentlemen! Gentlemen from the last rows... Thank you. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A country that does not care about this social group, which is guilty of its current position, both internally and externally, is a bad country. As a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, I do not want to live in a bad country with debt and a moral obligation towards pensioners and pensioners. This social group is as important as Polish youth and Polish children. Why has this difficulty and thinking not been taken before? It was taken only in a smaller dimension. It is impossible to build everything at once, such a house as Poland, such a beautiful country as the builder. Retirists and pensioners have already paid their taxes when they've worked like we have now. There must be money and it will be, even at the expense of slightly less development. If it's not for this term, it's for the next one. In beautiful Poland there are also Poles, who are sufficient for more than one dinner, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will take the trouble with understanding, and I am one of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the beginning, I would like to ask how much taxes on pensioners are in the income of the state's PIT budget. What is the global amount, and what is the percentage? I ask this because yesterday the Sejm decided to transfer PLN 3 billion - PLN 2 billion to value pensions next year and PLN 1 billion to bridge pensions. There are many expenditures in the draft state budget that are poorly justified. These are the expenses of a generous country that can be abandoned. After all, we have heard here that poverty among pensioners is growing from year to year - 13% within one year. Shouldn't it be possible to accumulate this money and adopt laws, and to ensure that pensioners live decent lives in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u61	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that all the clubs have supported the project and we will proceed on it in committee. And I'm very happy that today we're talking about the fate of pensioners and pensioners. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the politicians of the Civic Platform and the PSL say that the Government of Law and Justice does nothing for pensioners. Therefore, I have questions to the Minister: What financial resources are earmarked for the benefit of pensions next year? Is it true that the Government of Law and Justice is eliminating geriatric troops? I also have a question for the Minister about the amount of money that has been spent and will be spent next year on free medicines for seniors. Have governments implemented such projects to support pensioners? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have another question: Are pensions and pensions under the rule of law and justice higher than those under the government of PO-PSL? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u63	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We need to lean on this problem, because there is no doubt that we are talking about a very important matter, about the life of people of retirement age, people who worked hard in Poland and for Poland, and they built some of this Poland. But our opposition colleagues, who ruled for eight years, need to remember a few things. Ladies and gentlemen, they weren't worried about you when Alexander Grad made 55 grand. PLN per month, building a nuclear power plant. They weren't worried. [[How much does Glapiński make?]] They weren't worried about you when Mrs. Elżbieta Bieńkowska mentioned and told Mr. Wojtunik: My friend lives for 6,000. zł. You weren't worried about that at the time. [[You're lying. It was the minister. You're lying.]] Don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u65	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u66	And I just wanted to say that they weren't worried about you when the Amber Gold scandal broke out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when $850,000. people in Poland lost it, mostly retired people lost it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And today you stand with these gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u67	We're done here, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u68	...who just beat the foam, because for you... [[KNF?]] ...they didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u69	Thank you, sir. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the situation of pensioners who now receive 1000 PLN and before receiving 800 PLN is very difficult and even catastrophic - especially if they remain alone and such a period of life comes - and especially in the Polish village. Law and Justice lean on it. There's gonna be a grant, 8.5. billions. At the moment, money is meant for those pensioners who make the least money. But it was Mr. Kamish's cynical speech. I have a question for him. He's not here right now, he won't listen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u71	He's, he's in the O.R. He's up high.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u72	Why did he just increase the age of 60 to 65 years for farmers, women? Explain why you did it. Second, 65 and 67 years old. That's your cynicism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today you're out of that bleacher, beating the foam... [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] ...and misleads people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u73	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u74	Thank you, Marshal. I have a few questions. First to Mrs Borowiak. What is it like, Madam - whether you are interested in a potentially negative opinion of the European Union or whether the project is incompatible with European Union law, and only when we are discussing an opposition project or a project to raise the value of pensions? Only then do you have an interest in an opinion on compliance with European Union law? Because on no other matter, and we had a lot of them in this Seym, where this contradiction was clearly shown, neither you nor your club bothered. You spoke to Mr Rzonca about the various phenomena from your previous term of office, and have you forgotten the multi-billion-dollar prizes paid by politicians, Councillors of Law and Justice? And how do they relate to low pensions? [[Would you like to talk about the councillors or the Members?]] We are talking about a project whose records would have the chance to raise Polish pensioners' pensions. We're talking about a project that's been backed up by 140 grand. Poles. So I ask: Where is the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs? Why isn't there even a Minister of Social Policy for Mrs Rafalski on behalf of the government? Isn't it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there real concern for the case of pensioners under Law and Justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u75	Thank you, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear good guests! I think this debate has shown the real face of the PiS today. Instead of using a good project as an opportunity to discuss the future of pensions, you accuse your predecessors here. You don't show anything from each other, you don't care about pensioners. That's the truth. You care about one pensioner - this is your president. You must admit that you care very much about this pensioner. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Today we have, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, a problem with the fact that we have pension benefits almost standing still, while there is an avalanche price increase. And you cannot, dear parliamentarians from the PiS, escape the problem that the purchasing value of these pensions in Poland will be none in a moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u77	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great interest to the discussion on the citizens' draft Retirement Law without tax. To be honest, I believe that some of the points that have been formulated during this discussion are unfair, unjustified. In particular, I believe that the state has forgotten about pensioners. I think that the actions that we have carried out over the last three years in terms of securing the material situation of pensioners and pensioners receiving lower pension benefits give rise to the claim that the Government of Law and Justice can be said to pay particular attention to the situation of the poorest pensioners and pensioners. I would like to remind you that in 2016 it was decided that the statutory mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits should be supplemented by the one-off payment of pension allowances for persons receiving relatively lower pension benefits, allowances in amounts ranging from PLN 50 to PLN 400. The next year has brought value with the amount guaranteed for the valorization of PLN 10 but also an unprecedented increase in the amount of the lowest pension benefits from PLN 882,50 to PLN 1000 in the case of a pension for total incapacity for work, pension, survivor's pension. This is an increase of 13.3%. In the case of a partial disability pension, the amount of the lowest pension was raised from PLN 676,75 to PLN 750, i.e. about 11% , a social pension from PLN 741,35 up to PLN 840, i.e. 13.3%. This year's pension benefit valorisation rate was set at 102,98% and meant to increase the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work by PLN 29.80. As regards the amount of the pension for partial incapacity for work, it increased by approx. 49 PLN. I have good information for pensioners about the valorization of pension benefits, which will be carried out next year on 1 March 2019. The government bill amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund is already well advanced, a project which guarantees pensioners receiving pension benefits at a level below the average level, i.e. at the level of about PLN 2200, an increase in the amount of PLN 70. For other pensioners, pension benefits will be increased by a forecast value ratio of 103,26%. If we were to sum up those actions that were addressed to those who received the lowest pension benefits in the last three years, I would like to say that these amounts have increased by 25% in total. The pension benefits of people receiving the lowest pension benefits in Poland increased by 25%. I would also like to comment on some of the points that were formulated during the discussion. You called for a substantive discussion on this project. I agree to this appeal here. The argument that pensioners and pensioners were double-charged with personal income tax and social security contributions has been repeated over and over again during the discussion. So I will repeat Mrs Tomaszewska's words. Pension contributions during our professional activity, which are deducted from the remuneration of persons subject to insurance, are exempt from the tax obligation, are deducted from the income tax base. In a sense, this tax obligation is deferred in time. This is also the response to Mr Kasprzak's appeal, which refers to the Hungarian example and gives the year 1995, in which the Hungarians decided to exclude pensions from the obligation to pay personal income tax. I will refer to 1992, during which we introduced an obligation to pay personal income tax. This involved a gross increase in gross income by an amount equal to the amount of personal income tax for pensioners at the time. Questions have been raised regarding the material situation of Polish families and what the government intends to do to improve the material situation of pensioners and pensioners. In addition to the things we have done, these achievements that are addressed actually directly to our seniors, I would like to point out that the amount of pension benefits is very closely linked to the amount of wages we receive during our working life and the length of the period of social security contributions. Each interruption, any period during which contributions are not paid or paid contributions from a low remuneration, shall have an effect in the form of a reduction in the pension benefit. These actions that we have carried out, which will result in an increase in pension benefits in the future, concern the labour market. We've organized the labour market. You know very well that we now have a record low unemployment rate, 5.8% , we have a significant increase in average salary. These are measures that are effective in terms of social security fund income, and in the future they will also result in an increase in pension benefits. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with the proposal to refer the bill to further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for a very honest and honest discussion and lean on this subject. By the way, because I didn't, for starters, I want to welcome a group of pensioners and pensioners who arrived in the process, [[Applause]] who has not been able to participate in this debate since the beginning. This was due to the fact that several times the hour of the debate on this item had been changed. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion shows how serious this problem is. The problem requires consideration of political emotions. Renouncing what happened eight years ago, who, who, who, who, who, who, today doesn't make sense. [[But it's important. This is very important.]] It doesn't make sense tonight. Today, the retirees are sitting here, and this is their project. [[Applause]] This is not a project of the Polish People's Party and please don't tell me it's a project Polish People's Party. [[But you said it yourself.]] It was the retirees who turned to us because they saw this project that we were investigating here earlier. I am surprised that the OPZZ supports the project and sees the solution, while Solidarity is looking for different excuses to show negative sides and not support this project, not support pensioners and pensioners. This is not solidarity. This is not the kind of solidarity that pensioners and pensioners expect. Every whispering, talking about indicators, saying: We're up 2%, 3%, 4%, and for all of you, I don't think that makes any sense today. If Poland is developing, if we have money for everything, then we should also have money for pensioners and pensioners. [[Applause]] That's the truth. The discussion here... I didn't say that, you said it here. Today's lowest pension - they are lower, but this full pension - this is 877 PLN. Maintenance costs are at least PLN 1500. My question: Where do you guys get the money to survive if life costs 1,500 zlotys and you get 870 zlotys? Most farmers, ladies and gentlemen, because here you brought up the subject of farmers, gets just 870 zlotys. It's the lowest benefit. That's social justice too. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll verify my previous appearance. Indeed, the government has not forgotten about pensioners and pensioners. I told you before he forgot. He didn't forget. He didn't forget because you have a huge problem with it, and you don't know what to do, because poverty among pensioners and pensioners is getting worse. The fact that he hasn't forgotten also proves the fact that every now and then you let go of your eyes to pensioners and pensioners, you say, "We'll give you thirteen, we'll give you thirteen." We'll give you a one-time bonus. We'll give you something for Santa. One Christmas, another Christmas. [[Voice from the O.R. for the election.]] I think maybe it's for the election. But it'll be a one-time bonus if it is. That's not what we're proposing. Valorisation by valorization... This, too, needs to be considered, because it is wrong, and it needs to be improved, so that valorisation can keep up with the real increase in living costs. This needs to be changed, but today it needs to be realized, because the value of pensions isn't that value, it's not what the pensioner got when he went to the benefit. This is the one, as it used to be called, the old wallet. And that's what needs to be realized. And the best and simplest way is: we don't pay taxes and we don't look for any excuses here. The Union won't agree? The Union agrees with everything, just as it wants the Law and Justice, as they want the rulers, but as far as pensioners and pensioners are concerned, the Union will not agree. He'll say yes. You can find a solution here, it's not such a hard thing, which has something to do with... You always say: Why should the Union interfere with our affairs, our pensioners? We want to raise the benefits for pensioners and pensioners so they can make more money so they can live better. I think that's our goal here, the goal of the rulers, those who rule today and will rule in the future. When it comes to cases being pulled out here, too, because this is a forceful pull-up - raising the retirement age. I will go back to that again: we were able to negotiate, make a deal with our coalitionist, with others, that we do not touch the retirement age of farmers. And we could afford it, and we could convince it. If we were in charge in this term, I'm sure it would be that age that was maintained, but you didn't give it to us. And you promised to lower that retirement age. So? You raised the farmers. Unfortunately, you have raised the retirement age for farmers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't you remember what you voted for?]] You've raised the retirement age for farmers. I voted for it to be lower, Mr President. I voted, and we did it, and you guys picked it up. Ask the farmers. Another thing is OFE. I don't think you understand, because you don't know, someone told you there was an OFE, which you, your protoplasists, introduced, because AWS introduced it. Ofe was... But it was the idea of AWS, it wasn't the idea of PSL, it wasn't the idea of PSL, it wasn't the other ones who were in charge at the time, it was the AWS. Many of your fellow Members were in AWS and voted for it, and it was stealing, cheating. For the service itself 11% paid - 11%. Was that fair? Retirement and pensioners were looted, promising them vacations under the palm trees. That was the OFE. And at some point someone said, "No more stealing." He didn't take the money himself, he didn't take it out of the country, as it often happens right now. This money has been transferred to the ZUS for subaccounts and it will be paid in the form of pensions, mainly pensions. And this is in the ZUS assigned to everyone, as much as he had paid - except what was stolen, stripped in some way. No one's been stealing from anyone. You've told people, you have money at OFE, we'll give you the money, you'll take it in your pocket. No, that money went to the ZUS and they're assigned to the subaccount. And saying that some 130 billion people stole from someone that you stole from pensioners... That's not true. You need to know the genesis of this OFE that was created, just read a little bit and know it, and don't tell such nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to thank you for this discussion. Once again, I would like to stress that this shows what a serious problem this is. And I am surprised by one Member here - she is no longer here, right after she left - who said that she did not support this project, but must, under some duress, be, because it is a citizens' project. Some people still care about their citizens, see? So it's also worth signing up for civil projects. We want to discuss this project, we want to look for good solutions. And this kind of scaring, 30 billion, where's that coming from? What's the point of adding more to the rich guy? We reported this project because that's the technology right now, let's call it that in the Seym. If we give to children, we give to all children, if we give to pensioners, equally. We can figure out how to get there, here we go, we take a group of the poorest in the first year, we expand in the second year, or in the third year, we set out how to get there, but we are adopting a law on the abolition of the pension tax this year, in the near future. We're not looking for any excuses, sketches, that it's against something, that it's bad for someone, that it's gonna ruin the state budget. Every week we hear this state budget being ruined, and what, something happened? You just have to screw the screw somewhere else, find the money here, start with smaller, then bigger, and let the pensioners live a decent life. That's what we're talking about. Once again, thank you very much for this discussion. And we're working on this project, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]] We don't see any other way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u81	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft Retirement Act without tax and to amend certain other laws contained in print No 2984, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the law Penal Code implementing (print No 3028). I ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a Senate bill amending the Penal Code Act. This amendment aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 204 § 1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the Act of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code implementing the Constitution. The Court held that Article. 204 § 1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 k.k.w. to the extent that it does not provide for the right of personal participation of the perpetrator to whom a safeguard measure is applied by placing in a closed psychiatric establishment is incompatible with Article at the court's meeting on the continued application of that safeguard measure. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In view of the position of the Court and the suggestions made in the statement of reasons for the judgment as to the shape of the legal arrangements to be put in place by the legislator in order to properly comply with constitutional standards, it is proposed that the Article. 204 k.k.w. add § 2a the right of the perpetrator to take part in a court hearing on the continued use of psychiatric internment. Taking into account also that participation in the sitting may be linked to the severe stress and possible deterioration of the health status of the perpetrator, refusal or evasion of participation in the meeting, and also to the situation where the participation of the perpetrator in the sitting is unjustified from the perspective of the court of all circumstances of the case, in the proposed § 2a there has been a reservation that the perpetrator is not taking part in the sitting if it appears from the expert's opinion that this would be inappropriate, unless the court considers that the participation is necessary for a proper settlement. In order to eliminate the risk of obstruction, it is proposed that in the case of the perpetrator of the 7-day period from the date of delivery of the notice of the court's meeting, before the end of which he should submit a request for bringing him to the meeting, as he will of course be instructed. The request submitted after the deadline will be subject to review if this does not necessitate a change of the date of the meeting. According to the draft, the perpetrator will also be able to submit a request to bring the head of the psychiatric institution to the meeting, and he will be required to forward it immediately to the competent court. This solution is intended to facilitate the expression of the wish of entitled persons to attend the meeting. Of course, it harmonises the amendment covered by the Article. 1 point (2) (a) b of the draft, which provides that the court will be able to reach an agreement on the capacity of the perpetrator to take part in the meeting on the continued application of the safeguard measure in the form of a stay in the establishment not until the experts drawing up the opinion referred to in Article are psychiatric. 203 § 1 k.k.w. it shall indicate that the health status of the perpetrator is not an obstacle to the conduct of activities involving him. It is therefore appropriate to require experts to take this aspect into account in the opinion sent to the court on a regular basis in the performance by the head of a psychiatric establishment of an obligation under Article. 203 § 1 k.k.w. A similar reference should be made to the opinion requested by the court on its own initiative. In the event of confusion, the court may appoint other experts to draw up additional opinions. New wording of the article. 199a § 2 indicates the local jurisdiction of the court in respect of the enforcement of a safeguard measure in the form of a stay in a psychiatric establishment and the change to another measure, specifying as the competent court in the district in which the perpetrator is present, the court in the same order as the court in issue of the judgment at first instance. The intention of this change, apart from the costs, is, of course, to minimise the burden and the nuisance of convoying the perpetrator to the court. Based on the need to execute the judgment of the Court as quickly as possible, 14-day vacathio legis is proposed. High Seym! The Senate adopted a bill with 72 votes in favour and one abstention. There were no votes against. On behalf of the Senate, I request the adoption of the 3028 print project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u83	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Senator! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No. 3028. It is an initiative of the Senate, so-called. the judgment in order to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017 in the case of signage. the act. SK 13/14 declaring non-compliance with Article. 204 § 1 and 2 of the Implementing Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the Penal Code implementing the Constitution. The Court delivered a judgment, so-called. a judgment in which he found that Article. 204 § 1 and 2 of the Implementing Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the implementing criminal code, in so far as it does not provide for the right of personal participation of the perpetrator to whom a safeguard measure is applied consisting of the placing in a closed mental institution, in a court meeting on the further application of that safeguard measure, is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution - the constitutional formula is the right to court - in conjunction with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution - a model for deprivation or restriction of liberty - and Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution - the constitutional formula is the principle of proportionality of protected goods. It is therefore appropriate to recall the substance of the Article so far. 204 § 2 of the implementing criminal code, which states that in the proceedings concerning the continued application of the offence's stay in the establishment The involvement of the prosecutor, the defender, in the cases referred to in Article is mandatory for psychiatric patients. 8 § 2 k.k.w., i.e. it is a public defence, if a deaf or blind person is convicted, there is reasonable doubt as to his sanity, the sentenced is not 18 years old or the court, the fourth condition, considered necessary because of the circumstances obstructing the defence of the establishment of the public defenders. In view of the above, following the observations of the Minister of Justice, the Senate has adopted a proposal in which, following the Article, a proposal has been adopted. Paragraph 204 (2) of the Enforcement Code has been added. 2a-2d in the wording granting the perpetrator the right to participate in a court hearing concerning the extension of the preventive measure in the form of a stay in a psychiatric institution, except where expert advice indicates that this would be inappropriate for the perpetrator. Then he shall not take part in the sitting unless, despite that opinion, the court considers the perpetrator's participation to be necessary. When delivering a notice of the date of the meeting to the perpetrator, he shall be informed of the right to make a request to bring him to the meeting. Such a request shall be submitted to the court within 7 days of the date on which the person responsible for the notification was served. Such an application may also be submitted directly to the head of a psychiatric institution who is required to refer the application to the court without delay. By amending those provisions, the jurisdiction of the court in matters relating to the enforcement of a protective measure in the form of a stay in a psychiatric establishment was also taken into account and it was established as a competent court in which the district of the perpetrator is present, being a court of the same order as the court which delivered the judgment at first instance. Vacatio legis is minimal, the bill will enter into force within 14 days of the date of the announcement. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this Senate proposal to amend the provisions of the Implementing Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Barbara Chrobak made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. There isn't. Mrs Monica Rosa made her statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question: Are psychiatric hospitals, which will receive convicted persons, prepared for this and who will pay for it, whether it is at the expense of the National Health Fund. As you know, part of the so-called. The notorious criminals may have it in their genes. As you probably all know, two genes have been detected. Of course, we need environmental factors, as always, to include genes. But what does that mean? That means that if there's a criminal like that, he may need to be isolated for the rest of his days. Are these really going to be psychiatric hospitals? And again, the same question, because it's going to be a pretty high cost: How many people like that at the moment require isolation, and how much does it cost? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u87	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michael Wójcik to answer this one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u88	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that I can also present, Mrs Marshal, the government's position on this matter before I answer this question to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u89	There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: In the opinion of the Council of Ministers, this proposal fully implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and gives the right, the right to take part in the hearing of the courts which will decide, decide to extend the safeguard measure in respect of the person who committed the offence. Of course, I do not want to repeat all the arguments that were put forward here by the senator who presented this project. I want to thank the Senate for being presented with a project that implements the constitutional principle of the right to court. The point is that a person who committed a criminal offence should have the right to comment on his case in a given case. For today, the rule does not say that such a person has the right to such statements. The defence attorney, the prosecutor, must not participate in the proceedings and it is known that the court must take a decision every six months on the extension of the safeguard measure. Therefore, the constitutional right of the person concerned to the court is exercised. Of course, there is also a question of notification of the date of the meeting, in this way it will be implemented, as well as an instruction on the right to make a request for bringing it to the meeting. The perpetrator shall attend the meeting at his request within 7 days of the date of delivery of the notification. The request submitted after the deadline will be subject to review if it does not require a change of the date of the meeting. The application may also be submitted to the head of the mental institution in which the person is placed. And the point that you have raised. First of all, how many people. Well, we'd have to collect the data. I just got off the phone with the head of the department, which deals with e.g. These things. At the moment, in Poland, such persons placed in psychiatric hospitals as part of a protective measure are about 500. You ask the Member who will pay. He's paying the Ministry of Health. As far as this case is concerned, it is the payer. You ask the Member if there will be money for this. That's what the money has to be for, it's obvious, but we're not the recipient of this question. In principle, however, nothing will change with regard to what is working today. What's gonna change around here? In fact, we're just discussing the constitutional right to court. We are not discussing whether or not the funds will be available, we are merely talking about whether or not a person will have the right to appear during a secret hearing and to speak on his or her behalf. Of course, there was doubt as to where this matter should take place. It is now easier that in the circle where the person is present, it is very important. As the senator said, it's about the cost of convoying, because these are the costs actually charged to the Treasury. So that I think I have explained to the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law implementing the Penal Code submitted today for adoption by the High House makes it necessary to amend and complements the provisions: Article. 199a, Art. 203 and Article 20 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 204 of the Code, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. In recognition of the arguments put forward by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 22 March 2017, the Court of First Instance held that: SK 13/14, and the position put forward by Senator Rafał Ambrozik, it should be stressed that the amendments to the legislation provide clarification of the guarantees of the rights of persons who have been subject to criminal offences and mental health measures in the form of a psychiatric establishment. This kind of safeguard measure, as the Court rightly points out in its judgment, limits the right of the citizen to exercise his constitutional right to personal liberty. It is a means of isolating him from society and, in fact, is similar to a prison sentence. It is for this reason that the legislator must lead to a situation where the risk of arbitrary application by the courts of this adverse measure, contrary to civil rights, is eliminated or severely reduced. Clear rules guaranteeing the right of the perpetrator to participate in a trial or a court hearing and indicating the essential reasons for excluding such a possibility allow the principle of access to a fair and open procedure to the person whose rights and obligations the court is ruling on. As the doctrine and case law points out, only such existing rules allow the court in practice to make correct factual findings and to give an appropriate ruling on the case. In view of the above, Kukiz'15 supports in its entirety the adoption of amendments to the provisions of the Implementing Penal Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my position on the draft law in print No 3028. It provides for the amendment of the implementing criminal code and its adaptation to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017, in which the non-constitutionality of the Article was established. 204 § 1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1. The Constitutional Tribunal rightly held that the provisions of the Enforcement Code, in so far as they do not provide for the right of personal participation of the perpetrator to whom a safeguard measure is applied consisting of the placing in a closed mental institution, in a court hearing on the further application of that safeguard measure, are incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the current wording of the c.k.w., when the perpetrator has been ordered to stay in a mental institution, the court shall decide at least every 6 months on the continued application of this measure. This is done, of course, on the basis of the opinion of the head of a psychiatric institution on the state of health of the perpetrator placed in that establishment and on progress in treatment or therapy. In a court hearing during which the question of further residence of the perpetrator in a psychiatric institution will be resolved, only the prosecutor's participation is mandatory. Only in certain cases is the presence of the defender obligatory, i.e. when the perpetrator is deaf, dumb or blind, or when there is reasonable doubt as to his sanity. However, the provisions of the C.C.E. do not provide for the perpetrator to attend such a meeting. Moreover, this prohibition is of a general nature (absolute) as it concerns all facts and is not dependent on the state of health or behaviour of the perpetrator. This issue was the subject of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and was consequently declared unconstitutional. rules. The position expressed in the judgment must be divided for several reasons. Firstly, attention should be paid to legislation in similar situations. In the case of court meetings on a decision, amendment or revocation of a safeguard measure, both the prosecutor and the perpetrator or his defender shall be entitled to take part. They may also be attended by the head of a mental institution. Therefore, this differentiation of the rights of the perpetrator is only due to the fact that the subject matter of the decision will continue to apply the safeguard measure. Second, Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution states that everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. On the other hand, settling a case concerning the continued application of a protective measure consisting of placing a person in a closed psychiatric institution without even hearing him through a court of law clearly conflicts with the principle of a fair examination of the case. It seems unreasonable for the court to decide someone's factual and legal situation without being able to listen to them. For these reasons, it is appropriate to agree with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, of course, raised more legal issues in its explanatory memorandum, as well as the actual nature of the matter, indicating the possible effects of the revision of the rules. The proposed bill is the implementation of the content of the judgment. In the opinion of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club, it should be the subject of further work, therefore, High Izbo, I request that it be directed to the committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats our position on the Senate bill amending the Law of Criminal Enforcement Code, print no. 3028. The aim of this proposal is to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 204 § l and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the Act of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code implementing the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the provisions of the Enforcement Penal Code (c.w.) in so far as they do not provide for the right of personal participation of the perpetrator to whom a safeguard measure is applied consisting of placing in a closed psychiatric establishment, in a court meeting on the continuation of the measure, is incompatible with the Constitution. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has entered into force and already a person in a mental institution may request that its right to be heard be taken into account. However, it should be noted that it is now decided by the court which issued the judgment at first instance to continue the application of the safeguard measure (Art. 199a § 2 k.a.w.), and therefore often this court is far from where the perpetrator is present. In order to comply with the judgment of the Tribunal, a standard should be adopted which will re-establish the jurisdiction of the court which will rule on the continued need for the perpetrator to reside in a psychiatric institution, taking into account that the perpetrator has the right to attend and be heard. The proposal therefore rightly states that in these cases the court in which the perpetrator's district is present, which is in the same order as the court in which the judgment was delivered at first instance, will be competent. During his work on the project, the Ombudsman sought to allow the court to meet in a psychiatric institution, indicating that such a solution is justified for reasons of reasonableness, purpose and economy in the disposal of public funds. However, this proposal did not meet with the understanding of the designers. The Ombudsman argued that the organisation of a police convoy for designated perpetrators to the court may adversely affect the security of all citizens, as these tasks will be delegated to police officers who perform other duties. It is not without significance that these convoys can be quite large if the number of people in detention is taken into account and the fact that the need for further stay in a mental institution is verified every 6 months. This would also be beneficial for patients whose transport involves using direct coercion measures against them, e.g. in the form of handcuffs. These activities do not serve the process of healing them. Already in the Polish legal order there are regulations that give the court the opportunity to proceed outside the court's seat, e.g. in the case of meetings of the Penitentiary Court in Penitentiary Units 23 § 3 k.k.w.) or a custody court in a psychiatric hospital 151 c.p.c.). It should also be emphasized that psychiatric establishments are prepared for this, because already in psychiatric hospitals, where one or several branches of the hospital are located, there are meetings of the custody court. High Izbo! For the above reasons, further work on the project should be considered and the possibility of introducing amendments to drafts taking into account the possibility of court meetings at the place of the defendants' detention, i.e. in psychiatric institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of the Circle of Poselski I am proud to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the law of the Penal Code, print no. 3028. The expected effect of the proposed regulation will be to ensure that the perpetrators who are subject to a safeguard measure are placed in a closed psychiatric facility, that the constitutional right to be heard by the court and that a fair and transparent settlement of the case is exercised. The proposed regulation provides for the following solutions: 1) the right of the perpetrator to attend the meeting concerning his further stay in a psychiatric establishment (unless it is apparent from the expert's opinion that his participation in the meeting would not be advisable due to the health condition of the perpetrator and that the request would be made within the time limit); 2) the possibility of submitting the abovementioned document. a request to the head of the psychiatric establishment in which the perpetrator is present; 3. the opinion of the perpetrator on the state of health and the progress made in the treatment also provides information as to whether, due to the state of health of the perpetrator, his participation in the court's sitting would be inappropriate; if in doubt, the court may consult other experts; 4) the change of jurisdiction of the local court ruling that the perpetrator should continue to reside in a psychiatric establishment to the court in which the perpetrator is present, which is in the same order as the court which delivered the judgment at first instance. The expected effect of the proposed regulation will be to ensure that the perpetrators who are subject to a safeguard measure are placed in a closed psychiatric facility, that the constitutional right to be heard by the court and that a fair and transparent settlement of the case is exercised. The Ombudsman (RPO) proposed to introduce a solution to the project to allow a court meeting at a mental institution. Such a solution would be less costly than the transport of the perpetrator to court and would eliminate the need to put handcuffs on patients as a preventive measure that does not benefit the health and treatment process of interned patients. In addition, the RPO noted that the similar procedure whereby the court extends its stay in a psychiatric treatment centre is functioning in the law on dealing with persons with mental disorders that pose a risk to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons. Therefore, the right to be heard by the court in the procedure for extending residence in the centre should also be guaranteed to patients of the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial conduct - in Gostynin. Will this be included in the processed project? We are in favour of directing the project to committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u94	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it directs the Senate's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, contained in print No 3028, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 73rd meeting of the Polish Parliament. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. And please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member also elected from the Sztum County, I tabled an amendment to the state budget granting money for the project of construction of the Sztum ring road this year. For years, the residents of Sztum have suffered from thousands of cars passing through the centre of Sztum by national road 55. The implementation of the ring road would provide comfort and safety for residents. Tires passing through the center of this picturesque city cause its destruction, and the inhabitants are bothered by noise and exhaust. As a Member of the Pomerania Region, I appeal to the politicians of PiS, especially those of Pomerania, not to oppose the allocation of funds for the project and then to build the bypass of Sztum. They've got most of it in the Seym, so I'm asking for your support. We must not forget the smaller towns of Pomorskie voivodship, their inhabitants also want to live in better conditions, and the transit out of the centre of Sztum is one of the priorities for the inhabitants of the sztum district. I ask you, Members, to support my amendment, which will provide great comfort and comfort for the people of Sztum, who will no longer have to look through the centre of the city of tira. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u96	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a very important problem for cancer patients, the problem of targeted therapy. Currently, both adult and paediatric oncology uses chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgical tumour development and often stem cell transplantation to administer megachemotherapy. Modern therapies are targeted therapies. All previously mentioned damage numerous organs, tissues, cells and give many side effects. Targeted therapy is aimed directly at the cancer cell. These therapies in Poland are implemented quite late. Targeted therapy can be divided into immunotherapy, where we use our own immune system, which as a result of cancer being our own cells, which, due to genetic deviance, uncontrollably multiply, does not recognise them, and scientifically it is called an immune tolerance phenomenon. Breaking this tolerance means defending natural cells against cancer. It's such a brief introduction. The point is that this therapy improves the curability of virtually all cancers - different - from 15% Common up to 30% and 50% and there are cancers such as chronic myeloid leukemia, where the introduction of imatinib, a drug of signal pathways, made a complete coup with very low curability. And here is the question of why in Poland these therapies are introduced so late. They are very expensive, because these are often biological therapies and the production of these drugs, medicines, cells cost a lot. But the procedure that includes registration... Especially in childhood oncology it is already a real drama, most innovative therapies are unregistered because they are very rare. What's the effect? The result is that sick people who have already used conventional methods such as those I mentioned have no chance to live. It is not that these are medicines that are supposed to improve health, they are medicines that give life, and if the patient does not get them, and in the case of the clinic, Cape Hope, which I am privileged to manage if the child does not get this medicine, then the child must leave this world. For example, anti-GD2 antibodies for neuroblastoma, stage four: treatment of one child, one treatment in Germany, for which we collect extra-budget funds, because the drug is not registered in Poland, costs 2 million PLN. And virtually all or almost all of the children who got these anti-GD2 antibodies are alive, and those that didn't get in the earlier period, because there were no antibodies, they're no longer among us. It seems to me that the time has come for procedures for lifesaving therapies in oncology, those that cause the state budget to be involved in helping the sick, because it does not always succeed as our children collect this money, many sick adults are currently leaving this world, and in lung cancer, colon, kidney, melanoma there are plenty of monoclonal antibodies and other targeted therapies. Some of them are refunded, but most of them are not. The time from when the drug enters the European Union, to when it is refunded in Poland, is constantly too long, because it should be short, fast and energetic. I think we should do something about it so that the availability of modern therapies targeted in Poland for those fighting for the life of cancer patients is better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u98	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, 7 December 2018, the 20th anniversary of the death of Fr. Infulat Stanisław Piotrowski, priest, soldier of the Second World War, prisoner of the concentration camp in Stutthof, scout, socialist, patriot, parish priest of Kalisz Cathedral in 1971 and also well-deserved citizen Kalisz. Fr. Piotrowski was born on 1 November 1912 in the village of Biały-Szczepanowice k. To Ostr Mazowiecka. He was the oldest of four children in Władysław and Helena. After graduating from junior high school and high school in Ostrołęka, he started his studies at the School of Cavaliers in Grudziądz. Disappointed by the situation prevailing in the army, after a year's stay he decided to join the seminary of the priest, initially in Janów Podolski and then in Włocławek, where on 17 December 1938 he was ordained priestly. On 5 September 1939 he volunteered to build ground fortifications on the right side of the Vistula River. On 7 September he joined the 14th infantry regiment, with which he passed the battle route from Włocławek to Warsaw. He also participated in bloody battles over Bzura. On November 3, 1940, he was arrested by the Gestapo. He was initially held in Grudziądz, then went to a concentration camp in Stutthof and then to a sub-camp in Elbląg. After his escape, he entered Warsaw, where he taught religion on secret sets and prepared chaplains for pastoral military service. After the war, he was persecuted by the communist authorities. He was arrested by the UB at the end of 1955 and was imprisoned in Bydgoszcz. By amnesty, he was released on May 10, 1956. In 1960 he arrived in Kalisz, where he worked in the parish of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, but recognized by the department of affairs. confessions for a non-grata person were transferred to Lubonia and then to Brest Kujawski, Turku and Koła n. Warta. He returned to Kalisz in 1971 to attend the parish parish. Santa Claus, presently a cathedral in Kalisz, where he remained for another 18 years until his retirement. During pastoral activities, he was very active in social evangelizing activities through concrete actions in various other fields. Since 1978 he has organized the Kaliskie Days of Christian Culture, co-organized the 4th International Josephological Congress in 1985. He organized popular and attracting whole families with children so-called. oasis in the Polish mountains. He initiated the functioning of the Kalisz branch of the People's University. He also supported the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). He served as the priest's father to the Deacons of the Higher Seminary in Kalisz, and also ran a free kitchen for the most needy kalshan. Fr. Infulat Stanisław Piotrowski has been awarded many times. He received m.i. The Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland - Polonia Restituta, the Cross of Valiant Forces, Medal Fr. Infulat Stanisław Piotrowski died after a severe illness on 7 December 1998. He spent the last months of his life in the Jesuit Fathers' monastery in Kalisz. Five bishops and over 100 priests attended the funeral celebrations. On May 23, 2010, his name, as a scout and patron, was adopted by Hufc's command of the Polish Scouts Association. The Calissians remember sleep. Fr. Piotrowski's infulat as a charismatic priest, understanding to every man, regardless of education, wealth or life failure. He found time for each person to talk or material support. In the days of the Iron Curtain Fr. Piotrowski became a symbol of the endless struggle for freedom of conscience and human dignity. Today, at 3 p.m. 18.30 in the cathedral of Kalisz, in the church of the mother of the Diocese of Kalisz, there will be a Mass of St. On the 20th anniversary of his death. The Eucharist will be presided over by Fr. Bishop Stanisław Napieła, Bishop of the Kalina Diocese, and the sermon will be delivered by Fr. Dr Janusz Stańczuk, grandson of the sister Fr. Infulata Stanisław Piotrowski. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-07-sejm-73-3.u100	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 73rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 74th session of the Sejm, convened on 12 and 13 December 2018, and of the 75th meeting of the Sejm, convened on 14 December 2018, were served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 11 min 12]]
