ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Krystian Jarubas, Ms Marta Kubiak and Mr Jarosław Szlachetka as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Krystian Jarubas. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Jarosław Nobletka and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats at the Presidential table. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the National Defence Commission - hour 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 11, - Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team together with Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team. Energy Winter Package - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa, together with the Polish-Morokan Parliamentary Group - at 10 p.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish-Japanese Economic Cooperation - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u3	Thank you. The committee responsible submitted its position on information from the activities of the National Judicial Board in 2017. This is print number 2565. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, - on the amendment of the Property Act of the premises, - amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. The reports shall be printed in 2594, 2570 and 2593 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, drawn up at Munich on 18 February 2017, - ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 24 November 2017. The reports shall be printed in 2578 and 2579 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws (Prints 2411, 2411-A and 2542). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meetings on 11 and 16 May gave its opinion and adopted the attached draft law with a few amendments. The proposal is accompanied by a minority proposal to delete the article. 7, which was not supported by the committee. And now a few words about the proposed amendments and amendments. Some of the changes made were due to the amendments tabled by the parliamentarians. This was true, for example, of Amendment 9, which was proposed by Mr Sitarski in respect of the entry fees for clean transport zones. There have also been changes notified by me resulting from the delay in the foreseen date of entry into force of the Act. In addition, government self-corrections were reported to the attached project consisting, among others. to clarify the situation causing the moment at which the obligation to achieve the national indicative objective arises, where amendments to Article are proposed. 1. Another is the amendment to point 3a aimed at enabling the Minister responsible for public finances to provide the President of the URE with data on imports and purchases of intra-Community liquid fuels and liquid biofuels, taking into account the individual data of the entities that have carried out these activities. In point 3b (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: c Article 3 is amended as follows: 30b. 3 of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels on the scope of the quarterly report of the entity implementing the national indicator target transmitted to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. In point 3c (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: c the amount of the penalty has been adjusted for failure to comply with the obligation to blend biocomponents in liquid fuels. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 of the draft law has been amended to extend the wording of paragraph 1. Article 4 47 of the Act of 10 April 1997. Energy Law and added paragraph. 5 w ww. An article. The amendment is substantive. Its aim is to enable the capacity auction system to function efficiently in the gas transmission system, which is crucial to support the use of alternative fuels in transport. After the article. 14 of the project we added an article. 14a, according to which the content of the revised provisions of Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 23b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 The Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels shall apply to the assessment of the fulfilment of the NCW obligation for the period from 2 September 2016 to 30 June 2018 and the obligation of quarterly mandatory blending for the quarters of 2018 prior to the entry into force of these provisions. After the added article. 14a we also added an article to the bill. 14b that the quarterly reports of entities pursuing the national indicative objective of fulfilling the obligation to blend for the first two quarters of 2018 will be drawn up in accordance with the current rules, including the model set out in the existing legislation. The amendments also concerned Article. 23. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee's work, specific proposals for amendments were discussed in detail. It was also an interesting discussion. The Commission calls for the attached report, together with proposals for amendments, to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u5	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please adopt at second reading a draft government bill amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws, prints No 2411 and 2411-A. The Law, which will create the Low Emissions Transport Fund, provides a real tool to combat air pollution from the transport sector. The explanations and analyses of the Ministry of Energy and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management presented at the committee meetings proved the need for a dedicated instrument, the Low Emission Transport Fund. The arguments presented also show that the fund can be created thanks to the current situation in the fuel market. The government's fight against the grey liquid fuel zone has helped fuel sector operators achieve very good financial results and has also supported a high level of economic growth in Poland. These actions promote the creation of a fund aimed at financing the transformation of the Polish transport sector towards low- and zero-emission transport. The Fund will be a source of funding for Polish companies and local governments wishing to be involved in ensuring clean transport. It may also finance clean transport modes for which electricity, hydrogen or natural gas are used as propulsion. I would like to stress that the Low Emission Transport Fund will be a key element in achieving the objective set out in the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, i.e. to ensure that Polish society is clean, healthier and more environmentally friendly for transport. Moreover, for the first time in Poland the neglected problems of pollution generated by the transport sector have been solved in such a comprehensive way over the years. We have both a law regulating the alternative fuels market - the law on electromobility and alternative fuels - and this law, which provides funding for the entire programme. Long discussions during committee meetings confirmed that the system is a coherent whole. It provides not only the rules needed for operators in the sector, but also the financing of well-selected activities which these operators can obtain. This therefore creates a kind of industrial programme that fits into the general economic strategy of the government. The fund dedicated to the transport area is a testimony of Poland's commitment to the European and global trend of supporting low- and zero-emission mobility. Intensified action in this field is taken not only by the most developed countries, such as the United States, Japan, China and India, but also in Europe - the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany, but also by countries closer to Poland in terms of economic development: Slovenia and the Czech Republic. Therefore, Poland should not be left behind, but in this race take the place due to the size of its economy and its importance in Europe as well as in the world. The Low Carbon Transport Fund represents an important step towards this objective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain laws, print No 2411, and the self-correction to this bill, print No 2411-A. I wanted to draw attention to three points. First of all, we are dealing with a kind of narrative of the rulers, that as it is good, because for example. The fuel price is low or the result of the company is good, it is our credit, our managers. As politicians have said many times from this place, it is enough not to steal, and it is good. And if it gets worse, of course we are looking for reasons in an objective factor, that the result, the result of these adverse changes is the price of a barrel of oil, or in another global market justification. If it's okay, it's us, of course, and if it's worse, it's them. It is a kind of perception of the rules of the economy, the rules of economics, the rules of governance. It is therefore possible to curse reality, to rely on opinions, statements by PiS managers who believe that the contested act will not affect the price of fuel. It's kind of weird thinking. It's hard to believe, because each one of us, pulling up or approaching a gas station distributor every day, is checking the credibility of reality whisperers. How can they be trusted if they were unable to reduce the rise in petrol and diesel prices due to rising oil prices on world markets due to the weakening of gold and are supposed to be able to reduce and eliminate the effects of the fuel levy on fuel prices? This does not convince, and repeated declarations should only be regarded as an attempt to influence a group of voters. The second point is the creation of the Low-carbon Transport Fund mentioned here by the speakers. In our view, this is an unnecessary tool, even in the event of a need for it to function, according to the justification, only 10 people. This is a somewhat idealizing assumption, which is hard to believe. The functions to be carried out by the Fund can be successfully implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In such circumstances it is difficult to consider as legitimate flows that will arise under this law in a triangle: the Low carbon Transport Fund, the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This fund creates a self-fulfilling system in which money is collected from every litre of fuel. This money will be used for projects launched after specific consideration. Please note that the Act provides for an uncompetitive system for the mobilisation of funds collected for the Fund. Further, this law provides for the possibility to waive the loans made by this fund. So discretion will determine who will be the beneficiary of the fund's resources. Recognition will also determine who will be decommitted from the loan. This is nothing more than another sign of a jump on the money due to Poles. It doesn't matter if it's 4 billion or more, but it's gonna be money taken from our wallets. And the third line. The law - this must be said and noted - maintains the PiS standard of lawmaking, because I think that this standard after more than 2.5 years must be mentioned. A clear example here is the Act on IPN or Water Law. With regard to the solutions adopted in these laws, unthinkable, unforeseen, hasty, unwise, to use only the most delicate words, the minister goes out to the minister - like the secretary of the PZPR times - and says that this right does not need to be applied. Worse with a clerk who knows the law is to obey it. No one will ask an official in the future about the Minister's mood or the legislator's awareness. Therefore, if so, the Minister will answer to the Constitution and the Member who does not fully know where the comma should be placed will not be held responsible. This is where I'm going to move on to this bill. Please note that in April 2018, two government projects amending the same law concerning the amendment of the law introduced a year before enter the Sejm. They argue that the previous July change was imprecise and that the revised amendment will continue the tax sealing process. At the same time, the developers refer to the applicable law by September 2016, when the law referred to the sale or disposal of another form. The proposed amendment therefore takes a step backwards, as please note, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought we were talking about...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u9	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u10	...the loss, and today we're talking about real action. Reality. That's something you should notice. And one more thing, but in this situation, I'm gonna ask you a question because...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u11	Okay, that'll be a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u12	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u13	Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u14	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, once again, we are dealing with a law that aims to raise taxes, increase fuel prices. Just like in July Ub. r. I listened to the voice of my constituents, the citizens who protested then, so I also listen today to the voice of my voters who send me e-mails every day, pictures of fuel prices at petrol stations, where the price is already in the range of 5,30 and 5,90 and on the motorways it reaches 5.99. Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice follow in the footsteps of Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform. You're going the same way your predecessors went, raising fuel prices and taxes. Today we as Kukiz.15 say once again: I check. We speak at this bill because we want to reject it in its entirety. We believe that it is a disgrace to the Polish Sejm, a disgrace to what is happening in our country, because fuel prices are rising from day to day. We as Kukiz.15 also want to file a law aimed at reducing VAT from 23 to 22%. Once Prime Minister Tusk promised it would only be for two years. It's been eight years, and nothing came of it. As for the fuel bill, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have prepared graphics on how many gallons of fuel can be bought for a minimum salary in our country, for PLN 1530. [[Member shows a chart showing an increase in fuel prices]] In 2016, it was 367 l and in Australia - 2195 l, in the USA - 1971 l, in the UK - 1125 l. Today only 294 l can be bought in Poland, and in other countries three times this. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, how will you answer the question that in Germany, where Germany earns three times as much as we, the fuel costs EUR 1,20,1,30, i.e. it oscillates at the same level as in Poland, i.e. 5,20 and 5,30, and Poles earn three times less and have to pay the same amount of fuel? How do you explain that? Minister! Therefore, we, as Kukiz.15, meet and file a bill on the elimination of the fuel levy. We want to eliminate the fuel charge, we want to do it as soon as possible, so that Poles pay less for the fuel. Through this law Poles will pay on average 13 gr less for petrol 95, 29 gr less for LPG... [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] ...and most likely about 16 gr per diesel. This project, the Kukiz15 project on the elimination of the fuel levy, will therefore contribute to the reduction in fuel prices, and consequently - the reduction in food prices, transport services, we hope the OC. It will also contribute to eliminating the grey zone in fuel trading and increasing demand for fuel engines. Our project is the answer to your project, because we as Kukiz.15 say responsible: We are and we will always be in favour of lowering fuel prices rather than increasing fuel prices. Unfortunately, you are in favour of raising fuel prices and fighting trade unions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I must say this, by the way. Yesterday, President Milczarski, president of LOT, fired the trade union president and organizer of the strike in Lot. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are only capable of intimidating workers, hard-working people - professional strikes in Lot. You are only to award yourselves awards, whether ministerial or in Lot - President Milczarski granted 2.5 million PLN for himself and for other members of the board, and there were no employees. The directors in ZUS also awarded PLN 2 million each, and Poles have very low... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Breath.]] ...retirement. It's a shame and a disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen! As Kukiz, 15, we are in favour of rejecting this project in its entirety, throwing it in the trash. We're not allowed to raise taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Dividing the Self.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u15	I do not know whether Mr Sitarski wants to use these 9 seconds or resign. As a question, right? Good. In that case, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, will speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will admit to you that I have a big problem because we have Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski with us, but it is no secret that since yesterday the Prime Minister has deprived him of influence over the functioning of Orlen and Lotus, and these two companies are key to the implementation of this law. Therefore, the Minister's presence is a bit facaded, because, as you can see, the Prime Minister is not capable of making HR decisions, but, in the opinion of the Minister, it certainly does not count, because this has been public knowledge since yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! It's only been a month since the first reading. According to the declaration repeated here by the Minister that the fuel price will not increase, the fuel price has increased by 30/40 gr per litre. It's an effect and an accomplishment... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...only the last 30 days. How can we take seriously the next announcement, the next assurance that it will not have any translation? Minister, this is going to be translated into the price of fuels, because this is a non-biofuel bill, only this is a new fuel donation bill+10 gr for every customer who goes to the fuel station. [[Applause]] This is a repeat of last year, when you proposed a similar solution: fuel+25 gr, there is only a difference in the load rate for residents. Maybe you'll say it's a really small amount, you can hide it somewhere. He's not gonna hide. This is a natural process of reaching into the pockets of Polish taxpayers. What you do with burdens, with new tributes, is truly incomprehensible. You admit, in effect, an assessment of the regulations that this law will burden Polish taxpayers, e.g. Large enterprises - PLN 5764 million, small and medium-sized enterprises sector - PLN 5757 million, families, citizens, households - PLN 5757 million. These are the burdens that will be transferred to Polish citizens - PLN 17 278 million additional burden. You're just gonna have to pay for it. And we ask ourselves, " What are we going to get for this? Mr. PiS Club representative devoted his entire speech to what a revolution this is, what a comprehensive bill it is, how you're going to fight traffic pollution. How do you fight traffic pollution? Where are the filters? Where are the sharpeners for cars, diesels? It's not in this bill at all. You guys are so struggling with traffic charges, you're putting in new charges, for example. for entering the city 20 PLN or 2.50 PLN per hour. This is your way of fighting burdens. Another issue which is very important concerns the allocation of all these 10 grams per litre to the Low Carbon Transport Fund. But that's obviously not true, because you're only going to finance 15% of it. , transfer only 15% to this fund . From the PLN 18,672 million raised, less than 2 billion will go to a low-carbon fund for 10 years. What about the others? What are you taking the rest of the money for? Everyone has to ask themselves how much of it they're going to get. Rigid. It is known that it is one of the main beneficiaries of the PiS programmes, regardless of whether they are implemented in the Ministry of Environment, in the Ministry of Energy, in the Ministry of Higher Education or even in the Ministry of Justice, because it is not a secret that for each of these ministers it is an extremely important figure and everyone is working, of course, using public money, for good reasons of his father. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue, which has also been taken into account here, concerns additional burdens for, for example, the state budget, the level of these burdens. You say nothing about what programmes will be implemented and what other actions will be undertaken, e.g. Antismog. The representative of the PiS club didn't say a word about it. And I get it, 'cause that money's not gonna go to the smog fight. You don't tell me what action you're going to take, because you're just not going to. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club applies for the rejection of the bill at second reading, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and if this proposal does not pass, we make an amendment to give a new wording to the title of the Act: on the new fuel donation + 10 gr and on the amendment of some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u17	Now please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party Association - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u18	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will not support this solution, because it is a further deception of voters, you simply do not tell the truth. You're talking about biofuels, nobody knows anything about it. People expect that there is indeed a reference in this law to the issue of biofuels that are expected. On the other hand, the consumption of our native biofuels has been reduced recently, at the expense of other, foreign, foreign origin, the NCW has been reduced. And it's cheating people, it's just a hidden raise, another tax. It was said that there would be no tax increases, no new taxes, and another tax is introduced: 10 gr at the price of fuel. You don't think people will notice. They've already noticed, you can see it in the gas stations. And it doesn't really have anything to do with what was promised. There were supposed to be a million electric cars, 1 million electric cars, and it was going to be our homemade. We're supposed to be a tycoon in electric cars. Well, it's been three years. It raises the question of what has been done in this area, what are the new ideas, whether there are already projects for these cars, some new innovative technologies. It was supposed to be innovation. Of course, electric cars appear, but they can be counted on the fingers of one hand, but they are not our production, but are imported. The price of fuel today. Well, we need to think about what the government has done and what it will do to stabilise or reduce the price of fuel that translates into every citizen, into every sector of our economy, whether we should reduce the profits of the Treasury companies. Because we are proud of the huge profits that are being made and how profitable these companies are, and this is at the expense of the citizens, at the expense of all of us. But you could look at where the money comes from later. We would conclude that it does not serve people, citizens. If it was meant for a proper purpose, I agree, but not for political, party propaganda. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, we appeal to the government to deal with fuel prices. It's a matter of excise duty on fuel. The fuel excise should be mobile. And here, too, we have been asking for a long time to be able to determine the price of fuel by reducing the excise price. If this trend continues, if we add 10 gr or more now, because this 10 gr is just so slightly estimated, then we will get closer to 6 PLN. And it raises the question of how the economy, businesses and citizens are going to deal with it. As far as taxes are concerned, let us be honest with ourselves that the government is not telling the truth again. He cheats citizens, and that's what you see at every bill. The Renewable Energy Act: We have just heard here how much we have overproduction of renewable energy that we need to slow down. We simply used mechanisms to slow down the production of renewable energy, because citizens pay too much to do so. Now it turns out that we have too little and we need to use instruments that will accelerate the production of renewable energy, because we are facing huge penalties, and in two years we will be accounted for and done with it. So the government isn't telling the truth. The government never told the truth out of this bleachers, it's just people lying and cheating. That is why I would like to say once again that our club will not support these solutions, because these are solutions which in a simple, simple way lead to a further increase in fuel prices, and this is detrimental to every citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u19	Thank you. That's where we ended our club appearances. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of Members asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, will be asked as the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've heard a lot about tributes just now. They jump in pretty much every month. We're seeing an increase in fuel prices when we started discussing this bill, 20%, 30%, 40%. Minister! I wanted to ask you if you know these words: More than half the price of petrol It's taxes. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gas, but that takes courage and responsibility. President Jarosław Kaczyński said these words in 2011. Today we would like to ask: Where is this courage, Mr President, Minister? Does the government plan to lower excise duty? True, about 54% are taxes, of which more than 31% are excise duties. Second question, Minister: Didn't you notice that the last time we started discussing [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over this bill, fuel prices have increased? Don't companies think about what you're talking about anymore, the tribute you're making to the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u21	The question will be asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker mentioned, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński in 2011 said that it would take courage and responsibility to reduce excise duty, and Mr Jarosław Kaczyński in 2011 would reduce this excise duty. So what happened now that you want to raise the fuel charge by 10 gr? Currently, prices at petrol stations are breaking records, already approaching the limit of 6 PLN. We haven't driven that expensive, ladies and gentlemen, in four years. Fuel is getting more expensive, and you want to raise that price even more. Do you really want Poles to pay 7 PLN for petrol and diesel? The fuel bill+, i.e. 10 gr per litre, is a law which once again reaches the wallets of Poles. I would like to know, Minister, where is the Prime Minister who is now overseeing Orlen and Lotus. You said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you will not increase fuel prices on Orlen and Lotus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u23	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u24	How do these words relate to reality if you really have nothing to do with these companies now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u25	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I didn't think it would be necessary to change the name of the program of Prime Minister Morawiecki five to the sixth Morawiecki, because fuel prices are already reaching 6 PLN... [[Voice from the O.R.: Seven.]] ...and maybe in a month you'll have to change to seven Moravians. Happy birthday, gentlemen. You're raising fuel prices, and yet you're kidding the public that fuel companies will pay for it. How do you see it? At the moment, the companies are up to speeding up prices to increase their profits so that they can really transfer the money later. In addition, you're also cheating stockholders and stockholders because you're increasing the burden, reducing the profit, so you're robbing stockholders who bought Orlen and Lotus shares through the stock exchange. So you're robbing these people instead of getting that money in a different way. And one last question: how do you imagine to lower prices if you're eliminating [[♪ The bell ♪]] Competition? You connect Lotus to Orlen, and you want the prices to fall. This is contrary to the principles of a healthy market economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u27	The question will now be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. I would like to remind you, sir, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u28	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with a quote from the classics on the right side of the room, going to Poles: Poles, keep your pockets. This group that's sitting here wants to go after your wallets again. During the campaign, they said, "All you have to do is not steal, and that's enough for everything." I'm the one who says, "What are you doing with all the money you weren't supposed to steal if you're gonna raise your taxes again?" You've raised your taxes a dozen times, that's another raise. So where's the money you weren't supposed to steal? Minister, please answer that question. Within 2.5 years of the rule of law and justice, the price of petrol has increased by more than 20%. That's how much the price of gasoline has increased. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There will be more.]] Therefore, Poles pay more for everything: bread, transportation. Ladies and gentlemen! What are you going to do to make those petrol prices fall? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's my question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u29	The question will be asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In addition to the potential increase in fuel prices due to the levy, the draft law also provides for a fee for entry into clean transport zones. I tabled an amendment which eliminated the fee of PLN 25 and limited the possibility of charging up to PLN 2.5 per hour in city centres above 100,000. residents. And the question is because I would like, Minister, to make sure that no matter how much you want to charge for entering the city centers, this amendment virtually eliminated the possibility of charging in cities below 100,000. residents and whether all cities under 100,000. residents will not pay this fee. And second question. During the subcommittee meeting, I asked whether the Ministry would consider a reduction in excise duty if fuel prices increased dramatically. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister replied that this was a possibility and would consider reducing excise duty on fuel. I'd like to ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: There will be a raise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, our discussions are being listened to and watched by young people from Primary School 27 from Rudy Śląska. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're watching.]] Now she will speak and ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have to be clear: the Government of Law and Justice cannot rule without introducing four taxes a year. And that's the truth. Shaving Poles with money, which lies in their wallets, systematically new fees and taxes, and their list is already really long. It's time for you to stop lying to Poles that you're not introducing new taxes, that you're doing your program without pulling billions of zlotys out of their pockets. The list of taxes, new fees, danin, whatever you call it, is already a dozen items: from the first bank tax, which was introduced more than 2 years ago, to the third tax threshold, which is currently being developed in the Ministry of Finance. Minister, please do not lie to Poles that the fuel charge will not charge their wallets. All these taxes weren't supposed to charge their wallets, they were supposed to charge them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today we already have real evidence for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u33	Now the question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this biofuel bill, the government wants to hide the rise in fuel prices. As my previous speaker said, this is another raise, again reaching into our pockets and telling us that there is no raise. Minister, why are you kidding Poles? There wasn't supposed to be an increase in fuel prices, you're lying all the time. Now you want to take the Poles 10 grams per litre of fuel. Fuel prices at gas stations are breaking records, and PiS wants to add this tax to their drivers. I would remind you that recently President Kaczyński said, by cutting the PO-PSL government, that he knows how to reduce the price of fuel: I would lower excise duty, but it takes courage to do so. Mr. President, courage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u35	Now the question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, we know that the oil market is functioning in Europe and in the world, that we have sources that we can use directly for the purchase of this oil, we have Naftoport, which can supply everyone with the right amount of raw material, and we also have pipelines. Now it is not about safety, because it is provided, but it is about very easy reaching to this source to indirectly drain the pockets of Poles. And now charging stock companies is a violation of the principle of economic equilibrium. Shareholders may complain to the Minister that he controls the financial results manually. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These two powerful companies. Do you realize that this is a violation of business rules? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u37	The question will now be asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind, I won't be dealing with the price of gasoline, because I'm sure everyone's talking about it, and I'm gonna deal with the issue of this auto-correction. I did not really get the answers to this question, and after a closer analysis of the justification, I am quite convinced that what you have said is missing out on what is simply in the justification. That's okay, because you're writing that this doesn't apply to a limited right of property, and you're giving a pledge as an example of the actual act. So basically we did something, we don't know what. If you give me a hint, I'd be happy to say yes, even if it's about quitting. This is different than what you say, because the abandonment is located in the conceptual grid and the construction of our law. I don't find anything in the explanatory memorandum. Line two. Don't you think, Minister, that this is a step backwards in relation to the state that existed before September 2016? I do not expect any response or change here, but so much has been generated for Poles from the energy department, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards the claims against Poland that I must pay attention to this. Please note that at that time it was sales as a consensual activity, today we have sales, among others. as a certain real activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u40	So we're gonna reduce the number of entities and claims. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u41	The question is now asked by Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u42	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I have a question for the Minister: How is it that in Germany the minimum wage is around EUR 1500 and the fuel price is EUR 1.20, i.e. in terms of our approximately PLN 5.20 that the Germans earn three times As much as Poles pay a very similar price for fuel? How does this apply to the UK, where the minimum wage is around 1400 pounds, and the fuel is paid for 1,30 pounds, i.e. approx. 6 PLN, i.e. the same prices as in Poland? In France - 1.30 euro, or approx. 5.60 PLN. In all these countries, you earn three times as much as we do, and you pay for the fuel price very close to what Poles pay. As it is, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That they can pay for what they make, little money, and we have to pay for gas so much? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u43	The question is now asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing the young people listen to us. Greetings to the young people from Rudy Śląska. Look, that's how you make the law. Right now, we're discussing the price of gas. The minister at the committee meeting said that the price of petrol would not increase, because he talked to those who trade the price of petrol, and they assured him that it would not increase. Since then, it's increased by almost 15%. So, Minister, first of all, I don't think you'd like to live in a country where a paratax or any other charge that is cost-effective is clearly affecting the price of the product, and you say that the relevant glazeer was talking to the seller or the distributor, and he assures you that the price of the product will not increase. That's not how you make the law. This is the first case. And the second point, we can see from the justifications, in particular the rapporteur and the Member, the representative of the governing party's club - they argued with very thin voices, we all feel it - that it is simply an illusion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The price of gasoline will rise and all the cost of living will rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u45	The question will be asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! The Minister often says that he would not have thought of it in his life to say that at the price of fuels, for example. tax policy had an impact in 2012. This has always been the value of the price purchased. It's the same today. I checked it out. Six years ago, exactly at the end of May, the price of a barrel of oil was $106 a barrel, and today it's $75 - 30%. less. The dollar exchange rate difference is only 6%. If you had the same policy, today the price of fuel would be 50 cents lower on a litre. 50 cents. [[Applause]] This is the additional margin you are making for expeditions for Jasinski, for Obajtek and for the whole crowd of Pis-ovski Misiewicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome the school youth from Jabłonica Elementary School, who is listening to our deliberations. [[A voice from the hall: Let them also know.]] Now, please take the floor of the Minister of Energy, Mr. Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are approaching the decisions related to the revision of the biofuels and biocomponents law, but at the same time we are also trying to sum up our debate from first reading, from the work in the committee, as well as from the current work, today, during the second reading. And what can we say today? Well, first of all, this law gives guarantees in connection with the Act on Electromobility, that in Poland we are really fighting the issue... [[But why with our money, Minister?]] ...because you know, and we all know that the fight against emissions is, first, the ability to make emissions concentrated in certain specific places. The issue of the scattered battle has always been and will be unsuccessful. We're going in that direction to concentrate the emissions. The next bill we're going to consider is going to be a bill... [[20 gr+.]] ...it's about cogeneration, where we're going to expand, we're going to go out with the possibility of concentration of emissions when it comes to heating in smaller towns, small districts. We'll give it a chance. It must be systematic work all the time. This systematic work is also related to the Act on Electromobility. Not only are we entering the second, higher stage of technological development, but at the same time we will ensure a much better living conditions for our children, grandchildren. If we look at why the Low-Emission Transport Fund... Here I refer to two speeches by Minister Gawlik. There is no doubt that environmental activities, related to electromobility, could actually be implemented with proper interpretation from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Only all of these pressures, actions and various types of objectives of the national fund have caused you to do nothing about electromobility in this area for 8 years of government. So we have learned from this that we need to account for a specific goal in a specific backyard, which is going to be the task of the government's electromobility programme, the electromobility bill and the Low-carbon Transport Fund, that we will have tasks that we will have to account for in detail. This is what guarantees us that we will take some steps in this area, because if we say in the program that there will be 2,000 of them. charging points, they will simply arise, otherwise, if they do not arise, then practically anyone who settles the execution of tasks related to the funding directions that are adopted at a given moment will easily indicate how it all looks like. That's why it's clear. In almost every question, there was a repeat of a case involving the fact that this is an additional tribute, and the allegation that this is the influence of the ministry is a matter of emphasising that this is not the case. I would like to refer again to this and recall what I said at the committee meeting: December 2015, December 2017 - at the same cost of fuel companies the sale of diesel was higher by 51% and the sale of petrol by almost 40%. So the gray area that you allowed, and you knew the same thing about it, because when we were preparing the Law and Justice program, we saw what it was like, we didn't promise people in the dark... You're asking, somebody's asking where the money is. What money? [[Voice from the room: they ask you.]] Listen up, guys. What kind of money are we talking about here... After all, 23 billion zlotys went to 500+ just as a result of the elimination of the transfer of this money from the country and the fact that you simply did not watch, let's face it, for the whole eight years you closed your eyes to what was happening. So here's the thing: it's about us getting into this fight, doing some sort of order. And it is. And this is where we tidy up. If there are targets, we put them in a specific framework and we want to account for them. There is no doubt that we will be very easy to settle in this area. And we're looking at these accounts, we're showing ourselves here because we want to account for ourselves, and we want to be responsible for what we're doing. Fuel companies have therefore taken this on their shoulders, they want to settle it, because it is their duty to participate in the liquidation, in reducing this emissions, which is now related to car fuels. So if we look at it from this perspective, if we introduce as much as 10 to 15 percent electromobility within 10 years, then this will reduce the emissions of cars, which we don't talk about much. There is much talk about carbon dust emissions, whose level in Poland from the point of view of the 1980s has been extremely reduced. A lot's been done in that direction. If it is agreed by the Chief Environmental Officer to build a coal power plant one kilometre from the housing estate, this indicates that, with regard to this concentration of emissions, however, we have significant achievements in eliminating it, in reducing it. If we use this to concentrate emissions... The idea is that in these centres, especially large-town, crowded cars, however, the era of electric cars has entered, so that it can be reduced, because it is also a fight for health. And I am not surprised that in this area also fuel companies want to share these costs with the public. Because that's what you do in the world. If we are referring to this and now we are saying what happened here, that we want to compare ourselves with Western countries, Great Britain and others today, then please do so, but this is not only about our destruction during World War II, but also about the period of communism, until 1989, and about everything that has happened, making up for civilizational delays. We're getting a civilization leap anyway. And today just this kind of comparison is absolutely dishonest. We've made up... Young Members can be specifically said: In my life, I made 10 dollars a month in Poland for many years. [[Voice from the room: Now the prizes.]] [[Voice from the hall: Hence these awards now?]] How can we compare here to other countries? Such comparisons are completely unfair and inappropriate. There are thousands of Poles coming back from the West to Poland. Some things have become a fact, and these are clear indications for us. One more thing. What I'm trying to say is that I hope, by talking about what you're gonna do here, that we're not doing anything about the price of fuel... [[Voice from the room: Do it, do it. They're going up.]] Let me remind you, eight years of fighting. We'll see what happens if it turns out we're in charge for eight years. [[That's not gonna happen.]] We'll settle up. Eight years, ladies and gentlemen. I can say this: I paid for the fuel when the price was highest, I paid more than PLN 6 per litre. I hope that Poles going on holiday will pay less than 5 PLN. [[Applause]] [[How's that?]] There is, however, a difference in the way we govern. People have more in their pockets and live better, and Poland becomes a rich country. [[How's that?]] Poland is becoming a rich country because it belongs to the 25 richest countries in the world. Why? Because you could not eliminate poverty in Poland for 8 years, and now the UN has decided that there is no poverty in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[And yet Poland in ruins.]] This 500+ caused us to have no poverty in Poland. Yes. [[Voice from the hall: But about smog this bill is.]] [[Voice from the room: They hold tight. It's okay.]] That's how we can account for ourselves, here we go. There is no poverty in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Especially from you.]] Why didn't you bring this up? Why did you allow Poland to be robbed? It's not that simple. So now it is, if we want to... [[Just don't steal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am laughing because I am pleased that this bill will come into force. [[You're laughing at yourself.]] Whoever will then rule, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to implement electromobility in Poland. We're becoming an equal state in the world. They will be in Poland electric cars, driving on our Polish roads. [[A million.]] They'll be driving on our Polish roads. There will be no pretending in this area. I'm moving on to specific questions. We have to say in this way that we have to move towards modernity, we have to develop this modernity. Electric cars are the new stage of civilization. This stage of civilization begins and we will account for it. I think that's what this is all about. [[That's right, we'll charge you for it.]] Of course, the voters will account for us first. I'm gonna go over the detailed questions right now. First of all, that's all I'm talking about. The question of price and taxes is repeated all the time, and it is all about looking for ways to increase additional taxes, increase costs. We have led to the fact that the revenues of Poles, the actual cash they have to spend, are much bigger than they were before. [[Applause]] One more thing, I'm going to go back to what was calculated for 2017. By a large amount, by PLN 100 dozen million, the amount for the 500+ programme, which goes to Polish families, to rural areas, exceeded - by more than PLN 100 million - EU subsidies, which were the hit of our entry into the Union. [[Applause]] Poland itself has given more than at the moment EU subsidies for rural areas. [[All you had to do was not steal.]] Do we? All you had to do was not steal. And there's still a lot of work to be done in this area and we're going to try to do it. Now, the question has been raised, I refer to the departmental law, I am still responsible for the functioning of fuel companies to the extent that it is in the departmental law. [[Did the spokesperson confirm that?]] The system, this ownership part, has indeed gone under the supervision of the Prime Minister, so it can happen in this area. So that from a substantive point of view, from the point of view of the departmental law, I am still authorized to speak on this matter. Now, yeah, the gas price went up by 20%, and I said it wouldn't go up. Minister, I said that the fuel charge wouldn't increase, and I said, [[Joy in the Chamber]] that everything depends, growth depends on fuel prices in the world. You think a ten-dollar move... I told you that when it comes to the fuel charge, it won't affect the price of the fuel. The Member is laughing. [[The voice from the hall: Don't stick it, it's a cock.]] The fuel charge does not affect the price of the fuel. If the price of a barrel of oil has increased accordingly, the price of fuel in this area is falling. [[Don't make us look like idiots.]] Therefore, if the price of the barrel of oil at the moment, during our previous discussion at the meeting of the Sejm committee was 77.48, today it is 74.98, so it is clear that during this month there is a real chance that it will return to the price below 5 PLN, and that is precisely the point that these prices are independent of us. These are the prices that are the prices... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have fuel, fuel source, which means oil...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u49	Minister, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u50	...in small quantities in Poland. So, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'd like to... [[Voice from the room: We'll increase fuel prices at the end.]] Finally, I would like to thank everyone warmly, because even criticism, even the things that were pointed out in the work on this bill, have caused... The amendments that have been adopted, and the things that are included in the bill, make us on the real path of developing electromobility, i.e. the real path to introduction, to the appearance of electric cars in Poland. Thank you very much for getting on the real road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u51	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! That Monday I came back from England, where I was staying with my family. That's where I saw on the plates that 1 l of fuel is 1,25 or 1,27 pounds. My son-in-law works and earns 12 pounds an hour and buys 10 liters of fuel in an hour's work. With us there is 13 PLN per hour of work and you can buy more than 2 liters of fuel for it. So my question is, do you want to make a Pole buy 1 l of fuel in an hour's work?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u53	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk (prints No. 2499 and 2560). I ask Mr Jerzy Wolf to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting the Vistula Bay with Gdansk Bay, print No. 2560. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 8 May this year. Draft law in print No 2499 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading. The Commission carried out its first reading at its meeting on 5 June and adopted a report on the draft law. The aim of the project is to adapt the provisions of the Act on investments in the construction of a waterway linking Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk to the provisions of the Act on Water Law. The Commission adopted without objection a report on Draft Print Act No 2499 without amendment. I ask the High House to accept the committee report in print 2560. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u55	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I will present the position of our club regarding the draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk, print No. 2560. At yesterday's committee meeting, of course, printing 2499 was considered. We were all in agreement about his acceptance, hence today in the report the mention of this. The amendment of the Law of 24 February 2017 on investments in the construction of a waterway linking Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk results from the need to adapt to the provisions of the Act of 20 July 2017. Water Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, in particular as regards the competence of the newly established State Water Farm Polskie. The new Water Law introduces a reform of water management in Poland and thus changes the structure of public administrations responsible for water management. The consequence of this is, among others. acquisition by the State Water Farm of Poland of the duties of the marshals of voivodships in the field of water management, including the issue of water law permits. The proposed amendment, which takes into account the above-mentioned amendments, adapts the provisions of the Act to the new Water Law, which will allow for the smooth preparation and implementation of the investment Mon. The construction of a waterway connecting Vistula Bay and Gdansk Bay. The provisions of the proposed law will apply to entities involved in the implementation of investments carried out on the basis of specialization, including the Maritime Office in Gdynia and the State Water Farm of Poland, in connection with the issue of water permits. The draft law also amends the law by introducing appropriate references to the Act of 20 July 2017. Water law together with the publicists and the relevant editorial units. The Law and Justice Club supports the project and we hope that it will be adopted in the future as it was presented in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u57	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk, print no 2499. High Seym! The project discussed today concerns one of the most controversial investments in Poland, which is still economically questionable. It is also difficult to estimate all the effects of its deep interference with nature. Government benefits are also strongly discussed. I think that if the Sejm were to decide on this undertaking, there would be a very turbulent debate in the High House. I think it could be very interesting to confront the public interest with the interests of local communities interested in the benefits of spending large public money. However, the decision was made by the government, which, in prejudicing the commitment of huge resources to a dubious undertaking, took on a huge responsibility. The bones were cast - I spoke during the debate on the revised regulation today, paying attention to the fact that it is consistent with the intention and decision of the government fully responsible for all its consequences. Whether this decision makes sense or not, it is worthwhile that it should be implemented at the lowest possible cost, hence the great credit given to decision-makers by the High House. Time will show whether it was not given up and whether it did not provoke the government to arrogant behaviours, such as in my opinion absurd or even impertinent commentary by Mr Grzegorz Witkowski, undersecretary at the Ministry of Maritime Economy and Mediterranean Shipping, concerning the analysis made by Pomeranian self-governments. As many of you know, the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship has issued a critical opinion on the construction of the channel by measuring, presenting very serious arguments. The case concerns huge resources from the state budget. It would seem obvious that the government in this situation in an open debate should refer to the arguments put forward. It is in the public interest for all citizens of our country to have full knowledge of how public money is spent. Unfortunately, with your undersecretary's mouth, the government suggested that the Pomeranian self-governments, presenting a critical analysis of the excavation by measuring, are playing with the Kremlin. The case is likely to end in court because it's a serious charge, a heavy charge, Mr. Undersecretary. It can be presented as a case study on the dialogue between the government of Mateusz Morawiecki and the local government. As I have already mentioned, accepting a specialty concerning the construction of a waterway connecting the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk, which is now being revised, the Sejm granted a loan to the government. We will be consistent on this issue, which is why we did not object at a high committee meeting. At the same time, we announce that we will be following closely everything about this strange undertaking. We're gonna settle the government with every penny we wasted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Kobylarz, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to the words of Mr Azievicz, my previous speaker, who criticizes as if the validity of this investment. Let me put it this way: this investment for Elbląg is crucial, not only for Elbląg, but also for the entire region. And here I would like to appeal to you to support this investment. I may also refer to the words of Mrs Chmiel, which came from the Seym Chamber, which said that these funds should be allocated to the Tricity circuit road. Well, of course the Tri-City ring road is also, let's say, underfunded and there would have to be some resources, only I would like to point out that... [[Old-fashioned. I was talking about Stargard.]] You were talking about the Tri-City ring road. Now I would like to refer to the Tri-City ring road. We're helping you. The Tricity will be uncorked, because in Elbląg you will be able to carry goods that, let's say, will go to the ports of Gdansk and Gdynia, and hundreds of trucks from the Tricity ring road will disappear. Today's agreement, which is concluded between Poland and Russia, is bilateral and excludes the third flag. Let us be honest with ourselves that the excavation will allow for the application of the provisions of the Maritime Convention and will allow all units, all flags, to swim there. Today's situation in Elbląg limits such shipping. Few of this, the contract that is drawn up, can be terminated at any minute by the Russian party in view of the fact that the consequence of failure to comply with one condition of the agreement will be that this shipping will be stopped. So today, talking about how this investment doesn't make sense, is... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Sabotage.]] ...sabotage. You could say that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you not to criticize this investment, because it is a key investment for the whole region, but also for the Tricity. Thank you very much. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: One self-government is against the other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u61	Thank you. Now please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk. In the explanatory memorandum of this proposal, you indicate that the amendments proposed in this legislative proposal are purely and purely regular and result from the entry into force of the Water Law Act. And in general, it is. Indeed, so far the competences of the Marshal of the voivodship are taken over by a new creation - the State Water Farm of Poland. This is another example of how PiS centralizes power, thus taking away real opportunities to influence specific investments by the local government. In the explanatory memorandum, you also point to the urgent need to adopt this amendment. So I ask the question: why was this law not amended when the Water Law was introduced? This amendment could be made as part of a broad complement and implementation of Water Law. The Ministry overslept? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It was impossible.]] It was also possible, Commissioner, to amend this law, which concerns only law enforcement competences. [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Let's be glad we're doing this. Please support this bill.]] Therefore, we will not oppose this law in view of the fact that it concerns only procedural aspects. On the other hand, we will look very closely at whether this is not being used solely and exclusively to circumvent certain environmental rules. This is our particular concern that, when implementing this investment, which is undoubtedly needed by the region, it is mostly necessary for the town of Elbląg, there should be no damage in the environment, which would affect the environment of the Vistula mine irreversibly, as well as aggravate the living conditions of individual municipalities, which are also affected by this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u63	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats will not be opposed to the proposed changes in view of the fact that we supported this law in 2017. We understand economic needs, and because it is a government project, and the first, and this one, we believe that it is the government that assumes responsibility both for completing the entire procedures related to investment and for implementing economic assumptions. We also understand the position of local authorities, which ensure that their districts, their regions, equip themselves with increasingly new mechanisms and facilities needed for comprehensive economic development. However, there are some comments that I also want to share. Minister, I think, instead of being so critical of local governments and local governments - maybe this is included in the top-down assumptions and serves a specific purpose - it would not be worth to sit down and talk with the local government or with the local authorities, so that this position, contentious issues, i.e. divergent, explain, present to each other. And the other thing. We talk about this all the time, we refer to the Water Law Act and the entity that started functioning, the Polish Waters. As regards the assumptions, I have already expressed my position, so I would like to ask the Minister whether there is even a chance that in 2018 the functioning of the Polish Water entity will be in line with the assumptions and expectations that all these unfulfilled formal administrative procedures, which concern workers in the various regions, will be completed and the entity will start to function normally, just as the originator, or government, assumed. This is far from normal in the sense of local governments and communities in the regions. This requires, in the interests of the higher interests, that we stop talking about the transition period all the time, because it will be a transitional period until the end of the term of office, and then we will say again that it is not because the opposition did not allow us. In the case of these tasks, the opposition, as we have heard, is not against. We are in favour of implementing all of this in accordance with and respect for the local government and the government, taking into account the ration of individual regions and local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u65	Thank you. That's where we ended our speeches on behalf of the clubs and the circles. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Małgorzata Chmiel a question. Question time - 1 minute. Please observe this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no economic justification for this expensive investment. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Nonsense.]] This will result in the destruction of exceptional areas of fauna and flora with the disproportionate benefit of Elbląg. You are so afraid of the negative opinion of the Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship about this excavation that you are taking away from him with the help of this law, amendments to the law, competence to issue a water decision and pass it on to the Polish Water Company managed by your people. The Marshal of the voivodship has already expressed a negative opinion on this investment. This is another assassination attempt on Vistula and its inhabitants, who strongly oppose the destruction of flora and fauna... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... It's a Vistula plant. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Speak for yourself, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u67	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the state of play on this project. What about the environmental decision on this investment? Isn't it at risk that this investment will start at the end of the year? We don't have an environmental decision today, which is why it's very unrealistic for us to start work, in my opinion. It's one question. Second question. In order for the Vistula mine to be a rational decision, the port in Elbląg should certainly be modernised. What about the money at the port in Elbląg? Is this investment planned and will this funding for the Elbląg port be included in the Ministry's budget? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Right. One determines the implementation of the other.]] It wasn't for you to ask... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u69	Thank you. I would like to ask the question of Alexander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Economic development of the country should be a priority for each government and every group that is in the Polish Parliament. According to my previous speakers, this is not the case. Recently, the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship gave a negative opinion on the plans for the construction of the canal in Vistula Mierza. I would like to ask: Did the construction of Gdynia in the interwar period also raise concerns about the Pomerania authorities of that time? Did Poland and Pomerania lose on this investment? Today Gdynia is close to a quarter-million-dollar city, as well as a living symbol of Polish economic and urban thought. So I ask: Why, even on such obvious issues, local government officials from the Platform and the PSL, and also, as you can hear here, Members, cannot work with the current government for an investment that will revive [[♪ The bell ♪]] Economical Elbląg, Pomerania? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u71	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u72	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a citizen of Koszalin I am interested in investments in the maritime area due to the location of my constituency, Koszalin land. This investment is also an investment that my constituents are interested in asking me - and that is quite often - so I would like to ask a question on their behalf. At what stage are the preparations and when will the investment work so necessary for our country begin? My question is that I know, based on the opinion of my club friend Andrzej Kobylarz, that this investment is very much needed for Elbląg and the whole region, even necessary, is needed for the further development of these beautiful Elbląg lands. I was surprised by the comments of the Platform representative. You're surprised, you're kind of against it if [[♪ The bell ♪]] Something's going well. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[To the evil.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u73	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Local governments of Mazowsze and voivodships: Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie did a huge job. As for the road E40 along the Vistula there were analyses, but also concepts. I have a question: Did the government take advantage of this work, this effort? Will the excavation of the Vistula Land cause someone to finally be interested in the E40 waterway, or the Vistula route? In the current situation, we can't even sail this tourist river. Will we strive to make it a tourist route, not only but also a commercial route? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u75	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Wolf's question. [[I'm quitting. I'll answer later.]] The Member resigns. Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like you to respond to the economic, safety, tourism and fishing aspects of the development of ferry traffic and inland waterway transport in terms of the Warmia-Mazury Marshal. Is this sabotaging the development of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship? The question is Platforms, because the Commissioner is talking about an assassination, and I am talking about sabotage. Will you also go to the European Union to intervene against the Polish investment, which also contributes to independence and security issues? Ecodevelopment speaks of economic development in balance with nature. If you were interested and were not opposed to the creation of the Maritime Economy Committee, which I am chair, there would be no many questions, because even as it is, you are not interested in the development of inland waterway transport. You ask about the routes that are included in the project that is being implemented, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards not only the development of waterways, but also the port of Elbląg, which was asked by another Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u77	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u78	I invite you to familiarize yourself with the knowledge which is elementary also in the case of the Vistula mine excavation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u79	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All the conditions are to make an excavation on the gauges, to develop this part of Poland, to create jobs. There's no question about that. I would just like to ask you about technical issues. What is the size of the ships that will flow right here, at what tonnage, what size? I would like to ask you another question about the possibility of developing ports in Elbląg or around Elbląg, the weapons of these areas, the creation of jobs. What additional investments can this region gain in building this much-needed and expected investment by Poles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u81	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I would like to thank the committee very much for the report and for the opportunity to vote on this bill, the law of order, as you said, on investments on the channel, on the Vistula mine. Ladies and gentlemen! We are entering the final stage of preparation and documentation for this investment. We've got some really technical stuff left. I would like to inform you that these questions have already been answered by all countries, particularly as regards the state of work, the state of implementation. The investor on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland is the Maritime Office in Gdynia. It shall continue its preparatory work to launch tenders. In February 2017, an agreement was signed between the Maritime Office in Gdynia and the consortium of Mosty Gdańsk and the Projmors Office of Maritime Construction Projects, i.e. Polish companies, to carry out the project work together with the completion of copyright supervision and to collect all documentation needed to prepare the environmental impact report. On May 30 this year, last week, a report was submitted to the Regional Environment Director in Olsztyn. According to the Regional Specialist, the Director has two months to make a decision. By the end of July, we will already have an environmental decision on this investment. In the third quarter, as I say, there will be a decision and then a permit to implement this investment after the entire appeal route has been exhausted and after consultations that are really widely conducted. [[Bottom line?]] All comments - I am about to move on to the most pressing one, i.e. to the comments of the Pomorskie voivodship... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Management Board, it was not the whole sejmik.]] ... The Management Board of Pomorskie Voivodship - are provided in the form of a table of comments on the website of the Maritime Office in Gdynia. [[Okay, but let's get to the point.]] There are both comments and answers to these comments. You can get to know them all. I'm not gonna charge you with that right now. [[So, at what stage are we with realization?]] [[Don't bother.]] In the fourth quarter of this year it is planned to conduct a tendering procedure for the selection of the contractor-general of works. With permission to build an investor, i.e. the Maritime Authority in Gdynia, will be able to secure the area and prepare, of course outside the breeding period, the area for the investment, so that it can start after the general contractor has been selected at the turn of this year and next year. I hope it's still this year. Everything depends on this appeal procedure, where no one will avoid... [[But announced this year will be...]] [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Mrs Marshal, pay attention, because the Member keeps interrupting.]] [[Voice from the hall: If you know everything, why ask?]] One... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and calm. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: So that's more or less the state of the work. Mr Kołakowski asked about the technical parameters of the airlock. Because the positions of expectations on the north and south side, the gate of the airlock, including the construction, are two pieces. Earthworks in the Vistula Land are planned for 2 million m3 of beautification. The approach track to the shield port will be situated at natural depths above 5.5 m. Making a new and deepening of the existing watercourse on the Elbląg flood and river. In summary, the passage through this channel, through this waterway, will be able to defeat ships 100 m long and 20 m wide. [[Depths?]] I told you, the watercourse will be 5.5 meters deep. [[Voice from the room: 2.5 in the flood.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Five. He already told me.]] I am very pleased with Mr Ruszczyk's question about the E40 road. It was really worth waiting so many years for the Platform Members to take an interest in the waterborne and navigable Polish rivers. But it's a joke. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: We invite you to the committee.]] I'm in a hurry to tell you that a feasibility study for the whole E40 road is being created. The tender was announced some time ago by the port in Gdansk, because he is actually the beneficiary, the whole Tricity is the beneficiary of the Vistula. If these studies have not been taken into account... Although I know that the company that is working on this feasibility study, which is developing it, even uses papers and documentation from the 1950s of the previous century, so there is a lot of this material. If there are any newer, in-depth studies of these voivodships you are talking about, i.e. Mazovia, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie, they will certainly be taken into account. And here we invite you to cooperate, because as we have already said many times, rivers do not have party colours, and they can all contribute to the development of Polish ports and tourism in this smaller dimension, as much as possible. Referring to the opinion of the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, because it kindles the imagination of all - the special act does not specify the content of the request for opinions and annexes submitted to the Management Board of the Voivodship, therefore it is not necessary to present the strategic and economic basis for the implementation of the waterway or the extent of its impact. The investment in the construction of the waterway is carried out on the basis of a resolution of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of a multiannual programme. There we defined the detailed parameters, the funding we secured for years, and it's all going on without any hindrance. Contrary to the considerations set out in the opinion of the voivodship board, the analyses carried out so far confirm that the construction of the waterway, although this is not an overriding objective of the implementation of this investment, because the primary objective of the implementation is the safety of the state and the launching of this road for shipping in all its types, will have a beneficial impact on the economic development of the port in Elbląg. And here were also questions - yes, Mr Modern - about investment in the port. We have excellent contact both with the Elbląg government and with the port management, but it is only a municipal port, a city port and so far we have not been trusted that this port will be launched for real shipping. Because if there's a Russian blockade and there's no digging through the measure, no one's gonna spend a dollar on doing some analysis. Now, the moment this investment starts, and she starts, I say, at the turn of this year and next year, real conversations and real plans will begin... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Development.]] The investment will end in 2022, so we are 3 years old, maybe even 4 years old, to prepare - from the infrastructure, warehouse, technical, logistics side - this port. This port will not compete for the port in Gdansk or Gdynia, it is obvious. It will be a fider port, I wish it as best as possible, but the information and infrastructure that will accompany this undertaking, and the experience of previous years - when there was Zamech, big bets, or brewery, agricultural fetuses are being reloaded in this port - show that there is potential and it can be returned to this, especially in the context of the increasing congestion of the Tri-City ports. I'm not talking about access infrastructure, I'm talking about ports. They record increasing transhipments, record-breaking, of which we are very happy, but we must respond to these challenges, hence the urgent need to launch this next port within the Gulf of Gdansk. To conclude the subject of the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship - it is difficult to regard, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments raised in the opinion of the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship as valid. The implementation of the investments in the construction of the waterway, contrary to the allegations made in this opinion, is carried out in a transparent manner, as I said - the side of the Maritime Office in Gdynia, a table of comments with all the substantive references - is conducted in broad public and official consultations and the treatment of the social side in a partnership manner. Especially since probably one week after this negative opinion of the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodship, the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship Management Board issued a positive opinion for this investment, raising that it will help significantly in the development not only of Warmia and Mazury, but also of the whole part of Poland, with which we absolutely agree. Thank you very much for these questions. I'm at your disposal if you have any further questions as to whether there were inaccuracies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Environmental decision when?]] Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jerzy Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm actually surprised at today's discussion. I am a Member of Elbląg land, to be clear. [[I'm a candidate.]] Sir, I didn't say that. Why are you leaning out? What for? You're gonna do me a commercial. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr Azevich. The law on the construction of the canal by the Vistula Land passed almost unanimously, which is why I am surprised at your attitude today because you are so set on it. [[Absolutely. We're in favour.]] For at least a dozen days there has been a chase for this shipping channel through the Vistula Mill. One of the prominent Members of the Civic Platform recently said something like this. He talked about the central port, which is to be built in Poland, that it is against the will, will arouse the dissatisfaction of Germany. And he added in the same sentence, in the same statement, that we unnecessarily irritate the Russians by building a shipping channel through the Vistula Mill. We're teasing the Russians. This is crazy. Are we to fear the Russians who are blocking our access to the Vistula River from the Gulf of Gdansk? We are a sovereign state which must first and foremost take care of its safety. [[Applause]] The construction of the canal will end with absurdity, which lasted until recently, that the Border Guard boats, when they wanted to come from the Gulf of Gdansk to the Vistula Bay, had to ask in the Baltic Sea. Russians for consent. This is absurd, which you have tolerated for eight years. This is ridiculous. If you don't think we should tease the Russians, you should continue to praise them. [[Don't give me that.]] ...instead of all the municipalities... Let me tell you one thing: with these positions presented by the management of two voivodships, one for yes, the other for no, we would never have built this channel. At the moment, we are adapting the law to the current rules and regulations. [[Most of the PiS.]] Why are you yelling? I speak calmly and politely. At the moment, it is an institution, a farm of Polish Waters issuing water permits and water law permits and adapting the law to this law. However, if you have asked questions concerning e.g. The fact that this is a particular interest of some narrow group of entrepreneurs or some more specific group, what do you say about the construction of the highway by Mr. Kulczyk, who charged the highest fees for this highway? This is Poland's business? I don't think so. And this is the water road. It's the same highway, only on the water. And it doesn't really matter if it pays off or if it doesn't pay off, because all the municipalities on the Vistula River are very interested in this channel being built as soon as possible. It's not just Elbląg's business to be clear. [[Applause]] There was a recent meeting of the Maritime Committee in Tolkkick, which was in Elbląg, which could be attended. Then you will see how great the interest of all these municipalities is, as they expect this channel to be built as quickly as possible by the Vistula Land. You should have come and seen this. On the other hand, Mr. Struk changed his mind himself, because after giving this bizarre opinion, because he even counted the costs... He's not an economist, but he's calculated the cost, whether it pays off or not. It's not a marshal's job at all, it's a state investment, and he counted the costs and said it wasn't worth it. And Senator Jerzy Wcisla of the Civic Platform says it's worth it, 'cause it's gonna cost $2.5,000. new jobs. Then decide if you're right about Marshal Struk or Senator Wczyła. I believe that all municipalities on the Vistula River will benefit from this. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[That's not true.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Oj, Tadziu, the economy in Gdańsk should be ashamed that you say such things.]] Mr. Marshal not so long ago in the presence of the citizens of this town in the Sea Krynica said one thing: that he did not really think it was actually not entirely against the construction of the shipping channel by the Vistula Region, and that at the moment the decision was in the hands of the state, because it was to spend 880 million to make this passage through the Vistula River more expensive to end the absurdity that took place in 2004 and 2009, when the Russians did not sign the agreement at all, because it was renewed every 5 years, and it was not possible to swim in the Vistula River at all, it was possible to swim only in the Polish part, the passage through the Baltic region was closed. This is ridiculous. We're Europeans, and we couldn't go to Gdansk Bay? After all, this is something that offends us as a sovereign state of Poland. [[Applause]] The Commissioner spoke of threats to Elbląg and the Vistula Land. All the studies were carried out, even according to your expectations, because it was you who moved from Skowronek to the New World that proposed the construction of this channel. All the documentation was created for Skowronek, 5.5 million PLN was spent, and now everything had to be done again for the New World, but we follow the law, with research that is carried out by environmentalists. The entire development of this documentation has been re-established. She's ready. At the moment, we need permission to implement this investment, and we aim to create all these documents in accordance with the regulations and all the recommendations. [[Environmental decision, too?]] I thought the Minister said you didn't listen. [[I've been listening.]] A permit has been requested for such a decision to be issued to the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship and this decision is to be issued by WDOŚ. All documents concerning all studies recommended by WDOŚ have been completed. This is supervised on behalf of the Government and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in Gdynia and he is responsible for this investment. So that I appeal again: today's amendment is a small thing. In general, we have developed this discussion beyond measure, because it was only about ordering matters related to who is to issue water law permits for this investment - whether they are supposed to be, as before, marshals, and were only contradictions in the case of both marshals and the various interests of these marshals, or the Polish Water Company, as the law says. We're adjusting this, and I'd like to ask you to accept this bill. On the other hand, I assure you that all residents of the municipalities of Zalewo Wiślany look forward to this investment as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u85	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering (Prints No. 2497 and 2570). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u86	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. The project is included in Seym printing No 2497. The proposed amendment to the Law on Public Use and Volunteering makes it possible to improve the process of carrying out tasks of particular importance and sensitivity commissioned by the government administration. The most important proposed amendment concerns the determination of the maximum possible grant value of 80%. the estimated value of the investment, without, of course, taking into account the resources from the sources of the European Union. The project will have an impact on NGOs and organisations referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 Act on public benefit and voluntary activities, by enabling them to obtain more financial support than previously for public investment tasks where this is justified either for the protection of human life or health or for an important social interest or for an important public interest. Ladies and gentlemen! The project was positively assessed by the Council of Public Use Activities. The project has no impact on the labour market. The amended act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Social Policy Commission, following its first reading and consideration of this project at its meeting on 5 June 2018, requests the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in print No 2497. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u87	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And you will be the first to speak by Robert Warwas, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u88	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering, print No 2497. The proposed amendment will facilitate the implementation of tasks of particular importance and sensitivity commissioned by the government. In accordance with current legislation, the President of the Council of Ministers, if necessary, may, for the protection of human life or health or, for reasons of important social interest or important public interest, order, inter alia. non-governmental organisations to carry out public tasks without an open competition. At present, the grant for such tasks may not exceed 50% the planned value of the investment. The government project proposed that grants of up to 80% should be granted where this public task is investment-oriented the planned cost estimate of the investment. High Seym! The proposed change will allow for more flexible management of resources so as to make even better use of the potential of social organisations, which have very often been unable to demonstrate a 50% share of their own. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed changes, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the government draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u89	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Drozd from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft amendment to the law on public benefit activities and voluntary activities, as has already been said, contained in print No 2497. As we heard yesterday during the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and today in the Parliament's Chamber, the proposed changes concern a change in the financing of investment tasks commissioned by the President of the Council of Ministers from 50 to 80% of the cost estimate of the investment. This change, according to the applicants, is due to the fact that existing funding is a barrier to decision-making on the implementation of actions of public interest or social interest and necessary for the protection of human health or life. It is only a pity that you did not provide statistics in the explanatory memorandum, which would be valuable information on the scale of the problem. We could find out how many of these tasks have been carried out, how much is being carried out and what are the needs. It is also a pity that these changes were not supported by public consultation, because those implementing these tasks have the greatest practical knowledge in this area and could indicate whether only the amount of funding is a problem that blocks the implementation of these tasks. Perhaps that's not the only problem. It is true, Mr President, that the Council of Public Use has given a positive opinion on the draft law, but the justification does not indicate whether it has been done unanimously or perhaps there have been comments and reservations about this proposal. Given that this is a change in the right direction and that measures will certainly improve the process of implementing the important social tasks contracted, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u91	Thank you. Please take the floor of Agnieszka Chcaj, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the procedated amendment of the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering, print No. 2497. It is a project that goes in the right direction, because it allows non-governmental organisations and other entities listed in the Act to carry out investments, which are often needed to carry out important tasks. The project is narrow because it only goes within the scope of the Article. 11b in the bill. It is worth considering whether such a provision cannot be extended to competition modes and increase the possibility of participation, as is the case with EU funds. But it is a good step towards broadening the good formula of public-social partnership, because indeed many NGOs perform very important tasks from the point of view of social goals or very often even perform the tasks of the board and they are actually more effectively implemented and more effectively, because NGOs are people who form entities not only because they are specialists, but also - first of all - because they put their hearts into their activities. Indeed, the objection is that this project was not consulted quite widely, but I understand that this is because it is a positive change. I think that most NGOs will not take a negative stand for this project, but it is important to ensure that really such consultations are such as to simply maintain dialogue in the case of other actions, even good ones, because they can just be even better. I only hope that these investments and their nature will actually be published, that they will be generally available and that everyone will be able to know what the government decides to co-finance, in terms of this particularly justified social or public objective, because this is an out-of-competition mode. So it is important to be transparent so that this does not raise any objections. Of course, Kukiz15 will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u93	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! At a very fast pace, because within a dozen days, the government is working on a bill. You accepted and directed this draft amendment to the law on benefit to the Sejm. That law provides for the provision that in the Article provided for. 11b a special way of granting grants by the Prime Minister in situations necessary for the protection of life or health, or because of an important social interest or an important public interest, is introduced a limit of expenditure on investment grants up to 80% the value of the investment. So far there has been no such limit in the law on the benefit of such a limit, which means that these organizations did not have such a limit and could spend 100% grants. On the other hand, the limit was based on the Public Finance Act and was 50% but it did not concern non-governmental organisations, but only funds which were transferred to organisations or individuals under this special mode, e.g. legal persons or ecclesiastical organisations. I have a question: Who was the initiator and inventor of such a bill? Has this bill been consulted? Because we know from NGOs that this change has not been consulted with them. Why should only one specific award scheme be able to finance this? And also the important question: What organisations and for which projects do they benefit from this special type of funding? I ask this because neither on the BIP website, nor in the Polish Monitor, such a list of organisations and amounts or projects for which these amounts have been allocated, cannot be found, cannot be found. Hence, I will be very obliged to answer the question: What organisations and why will they be able to benefit from such grants? And are there any further amendments to the Public Benefit Act? Will these changes be consulted? And above all, what were the reasons for these changes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u96	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the law on public benefit and voluntary activities, print No 2497. Ladies and gentlemen! The project we are looking at relates to the grant from the state budget under Article. 11b Act on public benefit activities and voluntary activities to finance the costs of carrying out a public task of the nature of the investment. Currently, the maximum value of the grant is 50% the planned cost estimate of the investment. The government wants to raise this number to 80%. Of course, the argument that refers to barriers to public benefit organisations linked to the lack of funds in the account, which in turn makes it impossible to apply for grants, is a strong argument for this change. There's one more thing. It cannot be that, in the case of such a project, it is not preceded by a public consultation, that a project which is intended to deal with matters of public benefit is not consulted with them. It's just a joke, just like explaining to the applicant that you can't consult because there's not enough time. That sounds grotesque. The second thing that bothers us is whether it is sometimes a gateway for the rulers to promote theirs. Isn't it going to end that the change is going to serve the newly founded public benefit organizations that don't have their own capital because they were created quickly and their authorities are just activists of the right party, PiS? Ladies and gentlemen! This law is right under normal conditions, but it is worth thinking about a system solution consisting in fair distribution of grants, pluralistically for various organizations, and not just for those who favor the rulers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats despite these doubts will support the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u97	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking the question? You're welcome, Mrs Rosa. I don't see any more volunteers. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if the limits for funding the public benefit organisation will increase if we adopt this bill because the proposals are so many, public benefit organisations are interested in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u99	Thank you. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The official objective is to improve the implementation of tasks entrusted by the government with a particularly important and sensitive role by enabling the involvement of resources from the state budget to carry out public investment tasks. The project was not subject to any public consultation. It's amazing. What are you afraid of? Why was there no consultation? Once again, we have a law created in a hurry, without the participation of representatives of the environments concerned. So I wanted to ask you when the implementing regulations for the amended law will be presented, because these are key documents for organisations containing contracts, offers and reports. It's amazing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's important... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the gallery of students from the Primary School in Cynkow, together with the nannies who listen to our deliberations. And now I ask you to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is important and certainly necessary, while the presentation is too general for such important issues, financial issues. Well, in a non-trade-free mode, a large investment grant is transferred. But are these investments? I'm asking for a very specific answer. Investments concerning particularly important social issues in the field of health and life protection. What are they like? I'm asking you to bring this up to speed. If that is the case, is it not worth considering, speaking of this law, the percentage increase in grants also for the tendering procedure, because we know that NGOs have no other sources of funding than grants. So shouldn't these government grants for socially important tasks, and yet only such are implemented by NGOs, not be... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u103	Thank you, Member. That's where we've exhausted the list of people willing to do the job... [[Me too.]] Excuse me. Mrs Monica Rosa will still be the last to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u104	Mrs. Marshalkini! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll repeat my questions. Who's gonna benefit from this bill? Which self-government organizations? What is this recipe supposed to do? Where it is possible to consult the list of grants awarded under the special scheme under Article. 11b? Can you present this list of organizations? If this list of organisations cannot now be presented with regard to grants, I would very much ask for a written reply with detailed information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u105	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the rapporteur, and I thank the entire committee for the positive recommendation of the bill that we are considering today. As for the questions of Members, some, I can say boldly, most of the questions have a common denominator. They asked for a public consultation here. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this law that we are proceeding today is, in my view, largely the result of the comments made in the procedure of social organisations. It is due to the problems these organisations had when it comes to carrying out these tasks, because they did not have enough resources. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it has already been mentioned here that the Council of Public Interests has consulted this project. She gave her opinion on this project without comment. The meeting was attended by representatives of the social organisations that are part of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, there were representatives of social organisations at the committee meeting yesterday. The only reservation they raised was a pretty general question: Why 80% up to 20%, not 90% to 10%. I can answer those questions from this stand, too. This is due to the practice, to the problems that have arisen in practice. 50% threshold was a threshold for many social organisations, while with a threshold of 20% social organisations could have handled it. Many ladies and gentlemen have asked questions about specific social organisations and projects for which financial assistance has been addressed under Article. 11b Act on public benefit activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing classified. Of course, we will present this list in writing. As far as the procedure for granting aid is concerned, it is granted by the order of the President of the Council of Ministers, so this is as transparent as possible. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to one thing. Recently quite a significant part of the projects carried out under Article. 11b are projects carried out abroad in the Middle East covered by armed activities. These are aid measures aimed at the population of these areas, but, of course, most of them are measures aimed at the population in Poland. As an example, support for the reconstruction of youth and adults at risk of addiction, in the amount of PLN 2 million, which the investment was made, seems to have been carried out last year. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Monica Rosa from Modern, not really as a question, but as a presentation of the club's position, she pointed out that so far there has been no limit. With all due respect, you have made a mistake. Indeed, there is no limit in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering and the General Provisions of the Act on Public Finance apply in this situation. [[That's exactly what I said, Minister. That's exactly what I said.]] Then we misunderstood each other. Let me finish. In accordance with that Article, the total amount of grants awarded in subsequent years for the financing of an investment carried out by an entity not included in the public finance sector from non-European Union budget resources may not exceed 50%. [[That's exactly what I said.]] So this amendment, which we are considering today, contains a specific provision that changes, as we know, the ratio of 50% 50% own contribution to the 80% ratio 20% of your share. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, it's as much as I have to show you about it. Please accept the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u107	Thank you. [[Can I make a correction?]] I'm closing... [[I'm in the middle of a corrigendum. The Minister misunderstood what he admitted from the speaker.]] Please, Mrs Rosa, as a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u108	Thank you, Marshal, for your kindness. That is exactly what I was talking about: in the Public Finance Act, this limit is 50%. In the law we are talking about here, this limit was not introduced. In that case, Minister, I would expect information in writing on what organisations received grants in this manner, because, of course, the Polish Monitor - BIP does not have this information, although these are decisions taken by the Council of Ministers, so they should be made public. So I'd like to get that list. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u109	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws (prints Nos 2386 and 2541). I ask Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Director! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and some other laws, prints No. 2386 and 2541. The purpose of the draft law is to amend the Law of 6 September 2001 on pharmaceutical law and certain other laws, e.g. the law on medicinal activities of 15 April 2011, of course in selected thematic areas. The reason for the changes is primarily the partial implementation of EU law, i.e. 2001 EU Directive the European Parliament and the Council on medicinal products for human use. The scope of the proposed changes concerns, in general, the manufacture and marketing of medicinal products, as well as the supervision of medicinal products. Issues related to the prevention of conflicts of interest are also regulated. I'll try to discuss the most important things about the bill. That's a lot, I've chosen the issues that I consider to be the most important and interesting. Thus, the draft law refers to adding to the dictionary terms the definition of the responsible person and the competent person to order the provisions of the amended law. The proposer also proposes to introduce a definition of advanced therapy medicinal product within the WPF - a hospital exception, and also aims to define detailed rules and procedures for the production of advanced therapy medicinal product - a hospital exception, including requirements for the recruitment of a competent person and the qualifications that this person would have, which is a change compared to the previous law. In addition, the proposed law proposes to allow pharmacists with 3 years of employment - e.g. at the pharmacy, the pharmaceutical wholesaler - for the competition for the position of Inspector for Human Rights. wholesale marketing in the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate. Here's a little comment. We suffer from a deep shortage of inspectors, so increasing their numbers will improve the effectiveness of the pharmaceutical inspection. Without getting pharmacists from the pharmaceutical market, it is simply not possible. The following provisions concern the so-called. conflicts of interest. That is, the proposed law introduces solutions to ensure that persons responsible for the supervision of medicinal products, including even rapporteurs or experts, have no connection, family or financial, or many others, with the pharmaceutical industry. The draft law regulates it very closely and defines it. This is all intended to ensure a transparent and independent assessment of the entrepreneur supervised by the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. The persons responsible for the supervision of medicinal products will be required to make a declaration on the absence of conflict of interest under criminal responsibility for making a false declaration. I would like to say that similar solutions or requirements are applied by the European Medicines Agency. The next group of provisions that we propose to amend are, in general terms, anti-export records. Namely, the project bans the combination of economic activities related to the marketing of medicinal products with the pursuit of medicinal activities. It's been possible so far. No provision prohibiting mergers e.g. wholesaler of medicinal products or wholesaler of medicinal products with medicinal activities is an important legal gap. This resulted, among other things. Uprising, as experts call it, so-called. The reverse chain of distribution, namely traders or medicinal entities purchased medicines and then via a pharmaceutical wholesaler, having agreed to sell drugs, sold drugs abroad, often at prices several times higher than the purchase price. The procedure was mostly about medicines refunded, most often life-saving medicines and expensive medicines. Effect: worsening the availability of medicines, and often lacking for Polish patients in our Polish pharmacies. Antagonists of this solution will say that the proposed changes restrict freedom of management, which is of course a constitutional value, but they are also justified among constitutional premises, e.g. Article 2 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitution - Protection of public health or Article. 22 Constitutions - an important social interest. The consequence of this amendment is the introduction in the amended law of provisions on declarations under criminal liability. The Act also regulates the area of clinical trials in the field of medicinal products. The most important effect of the proposed regulation will be to replace the requirement to include contracts concluded by sponsors with persons involved in the clinical trial as part of the pre-documented requirement to provide a brief description of the financing of the clinical trial. In this argument, I will simply say that the Republic of Poland is currently the only country of the European Union where such requirements exist. This results in an extension of the period of clinical trials and the outflow of these clinical trials from Poland, which is of course not beneficial. The period is statistically prolonged by an average of several months. Currently, we are not an attractive market for sponsors to conduct clinical trials and this law is to change that. Then I wanted to talk about an area that regulates pharmaceutical law. Namely, it defines the obligation for pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesalers or hospital pharmacy departments to provide data on the marketing of medicinal products to - that is such a difficult name - the Integrated Monitoring System for the Marketing of Medicinal Products. This requirement was introduced by the Law of 9 April 2015 with effect from 1 January 2017, but the law in this case was dead and the entities were not prepared to carry out their duties formally rested on them. As a result, the Act proposes to withdraw the reporting obligation: we are faced with actual abolition until 30 September 2018. To conclude, I will say that the bill enters into force 14 days after its announcement, with a few exceptions which I will not discuss here, because everything is included in the project. The proposed law does not entail additional costs from the State budget. The project is not contrary to EU law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 March 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission. The Health Committee after first reading and considering this project on 11 and 12 April this year. and 10 May 2018 asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u111	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and some other laws with draft implementing acts, print no.2386 and 2541. The current rules need to be fully aligned with EU rules. There is a need to ensure their full compliance with the provisions of Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use. The project clarifies in this respect, inter alia. regulation on the manufacture of advanced treatment medicinal products for hospital exceptions, including, inter alia,: introduces a definition of an advanced hospital exception medicinal product; provides the basis for the GIF to establish the expiry of the authorisation to manufacture or import a medicinal product; provides for the approval by the competent authority of a Member State of the conditions for the manufacture of an advanced hospital exception medicinal product; sets out what should include an application for authorisation to manufacture such products; also sets out requirements for a competent person who will be responsible for ensuring that each series of advanced hospital exception medicinal product has been manufactured and checked in accordance with the provisions of the amended law. Another problem solved is that Poland is currently the only Member State of the European Union which requires the submission, together with a request for a clinical trial, of clinical trial agreements concluded between the parties involved in the clinical trial. In view of the above, the obligation to attach to the application for the initiation of a clinical trial which the sponsor submits to the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Devices and Biocidal Products and to the Bioethical Committee, the clinical trial agreements concluded between the parties involved in the clinical trial has been amended. In accordance with the proposed regulations, the application will be accompanied, in particular, by information on the level of remuneration of the investigators and subjects of the clinical trial or compensation for them and the agreement on the clinical trial between the sponsor and the centre. The proposal also includes the addition of new legislation on the State Pharmaceutical Inspection to prevent conflicts of interest. This is also a requirement of the directive. In order to maintain transparency and prevent abuse, the provisions prohibit persons conducting proceedings within the framework of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection to be associated with supervised entities. Here we have also supported an appropriate amendment extending the catalogue of such people. The aim of the project is also to suspend the application by 30 September 2018 of the rules on the imposition of fines on traders marketing medicinal products, refunded foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and refunded medical products and the obligations of transmitting certain data on the marketing of medicinal products, the refunded foodstuffs for special nutritional uses and medical devices to the Integrated Monitoring System for the Marketing of Medicinal Products on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This change results from the fact that not all entrepreneurs were prepared to report data using this system at the time from which the system was originally intended to function, i.e. 1 January 2017 The draft law will improve the functioning of the system of supervision and marketing of medicinal products. The introduction of new rules on conflicts of interest will improve the transparency of inspections, prevent corruption and implement Directive 2001/83/EC. Since these are good and necessary for the implementation of the solution, the Law and Justice Club declares its support for the proposed project. At the same time, I would like to make four appropriate amendments to your marshal on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u113	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Hok, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform to the government's draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. This project contains many changes. The most important ones are the partial implementation of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use. The changes in this area do not raise any major concerns. In addition, the project envisages adding new rules to prevent conflicts of interest for workers and persons employed in the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. The provisions contained in the draft shall specify in detail which activities cannot be carried out by the persons referred to in Article. 114a, and what information they must provide in connection with the submission of a statement. Another change concerns modification of clinical trials. The solutions proposed in the draft for the launch of a clinical trial of medicinal products are intended to accelerate the conduct of clinical trials in Poland. The proposal proposes changes which are intended to derogate from the requirement to submit clinical trial contracts, while requiring a brief description of the financing of clinical trials. The next amendment concerns the suspension of the obligation to transmit data through the Integrated Monitoring System for the Marketing of Medicinal Products and the need to postpone the reporting deadline as a result of the failure to implement this monitoring system before 30 September 2018. Along with the proposal for abolition for those entities that did not fulfil the reporting and information obligation through this system, and a delay in the deadlines for the introduction of those obligations, this is an inappropriate approach to the existing provisions defining the scope of those obligations, since the collection in the data system should ensure information on medicinal products if their shortcomings occur on the market or if there is a risk of such deficiencies. And the point concerning the ban on a single trader's conduct of several economic activities also aroused a lot of controversy and comments. This applies to the possibility of combining the activity of medicinal products with the marketing of medicinal products. It has been indicated that medicinal products refunded by companies registered in the Register of Medicinal Entities are exported abroad and are authorised to operate pharmaceutical wholesalers at the same time. There is no indication of how many such cases have been reported and what actions have been taken in view of the fact that such practices are illegal activities. With such restrictions, the facts and volume of illegal exports of medicinal products should be described in detail, since it is difficult to refer to the content of the justification for these changes in the Act, since it does not contain quantitative data on the identified phenomenon of illicit exports of medicinal products. There is also a lack of information as to whether and to what extent the measures taken so far, including the revision of the law aimed at reducing and eliminating the above-mentioned practice, are effective. In the draft under consideration we have further provisions, this time decisively limiting certain economic activities which are intended to combat the effect and not the cause of the cost-effectiveness of such exports from the country of medicinal products. The impact assessment attached to the justification of the draft law also lacks an estimate of its financial and economic impact on those covered by the merger ban. There are also no figures provided as to how many such entities are currently linked, which is eliminated in the project, medicinal activities and activities in the marketing of medicinal products. Only on the basis of detailed data in this respect will it be possible to assess whether the proposed provisions restricting freedom of business are adequate to the situation on the market for medicinal products in Poland and whether they are proportionate to the risks. In view of the above doubts and the lack of opportunity to listen to a social party that was not invited to the proceedings of the Health Committee, and we have been waiting for the position of the social side, our committee could not read its arguments, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will refrain from voting. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws, seym prints No. 2386 and 2541. The Act partially implements Directive 2001/83/EC on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use. The Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector will be able to conclude the expiry of the authorisation for the manufacture or import of medicinal products. Specific requirements for advanced therapy medicinal products have been laid down. A completely new regulation is envisaged for the change of consent to the manufacture of advanced therapy medicinal products. Manufacturers and importers of medicinal products will have to apply the requirements of good distribution practice as regards the distribution of medicinal products. An ad hoc inspection is foreseen not only in the manufacturer or importer of the medicinal product but also in the responsible entity or its representative in the event of a reasonable suspicion of the quality or safety risk of the medicinal products used. In the context of the procedure for examining applications for authorisation to operate wholesale pharmaceutical medicinal products for human use, the GIF will evaluate their transhipment chambers in the context of an assessment of the suitability of the premises and not, so far, the voivodships of pharmaceutical inspectors. In addition to providing the PIF authorities with information on suspicion or finding that the medicinal product does not meet the quality requirements set for it, the pharmacy manager will also be tasked with providing information on the suspicion or finding that the medicinal product does not meet the quality requirements set for it. providing information on the suspicion that the product has been falsified. For the competitions for the positions of inspectors for: wholesale GIFs will be able to join pharmacists with 3 years of experience working at the pharmacy. Currently, only the person who works in wholesale traders can be an inspector. Persons carrying out business activities in the framework of the activities of the PIF will have to make declarations on their relationship with the pharmaceutical industry. The Heads of the PIF and its inspectors and other persons acting on behalf of the PIF, including expert experts, will have to make declarations on the absence of conflicts of interest. The Act also introduces amendments to the merger of certain activities. It prohibits a single trader from carrying out several economic activities in which it may purchase medicinal products. A wholesale trader will not be able to carry out a therapeutic activity at the same time. The law then amends the rules on the conduct of clinical trials. There is the abolition of bureaucratic obligations, which result in the need to submit together with a proposal to launch a clinical trial of certain documents and to carry out activities by bioethical committees which are not necessary to carry out it, but are very often laborious. The obligation to transfer data and information to an integrated system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products is postponed during the period until 30 September 2018 as well as the obligation to transfer data from Responsible Entities and Entrepreneurs to that system. What are the expectations of the bill? First of all, it is about better protection of public health by strengthening the system of supervision and marketing of medicinal products, as well as reducing the export of drugs abroad in order to increase their availability to patients in Poland and to improve access to new drug therapies. I'd like to stop for a moment on the subject of illegal drug export. It is important to bear in mind that this practice has a long history. It began in 2001 with the unfortunate fall out of that bill of four words, which completely changed the meaning of that project, and since then criminals have been ahead of the law. I hope that in this case the solutions that are in this project, and those which, as far as I know, are planned, will prevent criminals from winning the fight against honest Poles. The Kukiz Poselski Club15 has no doubt to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and some other laws, prints No. 2386 and 2541. The Pharmaceutical Law Act is extremely important for the whole health sector in Poland. It brings together a large number of actors and directly affects citizens whose safety should be a priority for all. Thus, any changes to the law in force should be carefully discussed and thought out, especially as this market generates huge revenues. When presenting the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and some other laws, I would like to draw attention to two completely contradictory approaches. On the one hand, the members of the committee very rightly recognised the importance of the amended law and decided to set up a subcommittee to work on it. On the other hand, which is completely incomprehensible, after the completion of this work suddenly and contrary to previous plans, a project is introduced to the proceedings of the Health Committee, thus preventing the real participation of the social party in the work on the law. This approach is not surprising in the current term of the Sejm, but it is unacceptable due to the matter and scope of this law. I understand that the proposed amendment is a part of the implementation of the provisions of the EU directive, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us treat citizens and market actors as partners for discussions, not as forced stakeholders. However, focusing on the substance of the Act, attention should be paid to the introduction of a ban on the taking up and pursuit of various activities where the marketing of medicinal products is permitted. Really, this change will reduce the illicit impact on the drug market by separating from the legal links between the different entities in the supply chain. At the moment, many of the pathologies involved in limiting access to medicinal products were due to the lack of viability in bringing them in. And the rules in force allowed for this kind of practice. The second, but in my view no less important, change is the extension of a fairly broad group of employees' directories in the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector as inspectors. Pharmacies will be able to serve as an inspector in a pharmaceutical warehouse after having gained 3 years of experience, although this function has so far only been available after an appropriate internship. This will allow for a real increase in employment in the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate and thus also control over the pharmaceutical market. The last amendment, which I would like to draw attention to, which was raised by the amendment tabled during the work of the subcommittee, concerns the prohibition of sitting in the organs of the apothecary authorities of people who are active in the pharmaceutical market at the same time. The impact of this body would generate a strong conflict of interest, which must be avoided. I am aware that there is still a much greater revision of the pharmaceutical market ahead of us, and I therefore hope that the social side will be able to take part in the work on the next amendment. However, with regard to the project that is being launched today, it should be noted that the proposed changes are moving in the right direction and should therefore be supported. Greater control of pharmaceutical operators and the elimination of conflicts of interest should be crucial in the context of decision-making on the future of this project. Therefore, the Modern will vote in favour of the amended Pharmaceutical Law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of our club, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law contained in the relevant prints. My previous speakers and the rapporteur have addressed the subject of the proposed changes extensively and in depth, they have outlined the important elements of the issue, they have referred to the statements, the new terms introduced. Let me be clear that our club will support these works, regulations, and will vote in favour of these entries. We believe that they are going in the right direction, but, as my previous speaker pointed out, we still have a lot of work to do, discussions and discussions before the solutions ahead, also with a considerable burden of quality. Minister, I have a request because I am sure that we will still meet and talk about the amendment, about the update, as in this case, adapting our records to the provisions of solutions in the European Union, so that we do not have to talk to each other when we work on most of the proposed laws or amendments, saying that there is again no time for consultation that there have been no discussions that different actors or the social side are not taken into account. Can we do all this without asking anyone's opinion? I think that these records have already been discussed, and I will not repeat this, it is about the provisions on the implementation of work on new medicines, the increase in the number of employees supplying inspectors in the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. Surely an important element is going to regulate the export of drugs abroad, the sale of medicines abroad by various entities. So, in conclusion, we will vote in favour of these regulations. I also have this request to the Minister: let us find the time and at least show that we can talk in a normal way so that we do not even have these comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Three people signed up for the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. You are the first question to be asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczynski, the Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the bill we're investigating and the appointment of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, Minister, I'm asking you these questions. There are some of those questions. Is an inspection reform planned? If so, to what extent? Is the Ministry planning to verticalise the structures of this office? Are additional posts planned for inspectors in connection with the imposition of new statutory tasks? What further legislative changes are planned to give additional inspection opportunities in the fight against illegal drug exports abroad? At what stage is the draft law on the profession of pharmacist? When's he gonna go to the consultation? At what stage is the piloting of pharmaceutical care? When will the care service be available in pharmacies? Many patients are asking about this issue. It's a matter of night shifts. I would like to stress here the issue of night pharmacies. The joint project of the Association of Polish and Supreme Pharmacy Districts was submitted to the health department at the turn of March and April. How does the Ministry evaluate this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] At what stage are work on this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Before giving the floor to Mrs Zofia Czernow, I would like to welcome the students from the School Complex in Wola Raniowska and from the Gminny Junior High School. John Paul II and his guardians. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] Please, the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to ask you two questions. The first concerns the effects of the contested law. One effect is to limit the export of medicines abroad, which can positively affect better availability of medicines for native patients. I would like to ask what is the scale of this phenomenon at present. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill there is no information on this subject, and this is a very important issue for all patients. The second question concerns a public consultation. Most of the comments of the participants in the consultation have not been taken into account as this requires, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, broad consultation and the fact that a comprehensive law will be pending in the near future. The question is: What's the rush when there's going to be a complete change of law soon? It's a mess. It's a mess. Why? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. The first will strengthen my predecessor's question, and it also applies to drug exports. Will the provisions relating to the ban on marketing, restrictions on exports of medicines eliminate exports of medicines or just limit them? I listened to the rapporteur's voice. There was only a certain limitation. Why, then, such records, rather than specific ones, which would eliminate this phenomenon with extremely negative consequences for the Polish patient? That's question one. The second question concerns the supervisory inspector. The rapporteur's statement referred to the lack of appropriate practice, appropriate traineeship in terms of shortening this period or education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this principle and competence allow us to perform an extremely important function, which is the function of overseer and controller? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u127	Thank you very much, Member. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marcin Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u128	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, High Izbo! When it comes to answering questions, I would like to thank the clubs supporting the initiative very much. On specific issues, as regards this system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products, I would like to say that we are dealing with a situation in which we already have a very long delay in the operation of this system in relation to existing legislation. This explains our strong efforts to proceed with this legislation. Another point of the first comment, i.e. the limitation of the possibility of combining economic activities. Madam President, I see I have very little time. Do I have to answer only specific questions, or do I have to refer to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u129	You answer questions. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Marcin Czech: Good. Since there have been a lot of questions, let me go straight to the questions. Question one, the reform of inspection, the pharmaceutical inspector. Absolutely. We are talking and seeing the need to verticalise the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate. Then the institution will be able to operate more efficiently and efficiently. The same, which is also the affirmative answer, applies to additional posts that should appear in the GIF. As far as legislative changes are concerned, the amendment of the Pharmaceutical Law is one of the successive stages, one of the successive amendments. This is the second intervention in terms of change of law. At the moment, the third amendment is completed in preparation. I'm sure there'll be changes to the law. We will prepare for them to better respond to the market situation and to the legal challenges that are there. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński asked a question about the draft law on the profession of pharmacist. I'd like to say that there's a pharmaceutical law team at the Ministry of Health. He acts even today, at the moment his deliberations are being held, to which I will join, where the shape of the pharmaceutical profession law is discussed. We believe that pharmacists are a very important link and part of the health system, and we would like this profession to be subject to a modern, market-related profession, as well as full regulation of the law, which emphasizes significantly the pharmaceutical mission and its proper role in the system. The work is going on. These works are carried out together with the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, universities and all market participants, those who participate in the creation and functioning of this market. As far as pharmaceutical care is concerned, as you know from media reports, the pilot implementation of pharmaceutical care aimed at verifying whether the IT components of the system are capable of supporting the implementation of pharmaceutical care has been initiated in Siedlce. Skierniewice will be another place where the IT system, on the occasion of the implementation of the e-prescription, we try to combine pharmacists, patients and doctors in order to effectively exchange information between these three entities. Of course, the aim is safe and controlled pharmacotherapy, as well as the provision of pharmaceutical care services. So that the strategic direction towards introducing pharmaceutical care in Poland is as continued as possible. In addition to the fact that such legislative reinforcement is provided here, it is a matter of legal provisions, together with the Deputy Minister responsible for computerization in my department, we try to verify in a very concrete way whether under certain conditions this pharmaceutical care can effectively serve Polish patients. In other words, we meet social expectations. As far as the next point is concerned, another question, namely the night shifts of pharmacies and the project developed by the Polish counties and the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, here we are in constant contact with our social partners. Two weeks ago, we received a reply from the Chief Pharmacy Chamber to the questions we asked about the project submitted, so that the work is ongoing and we are leaning as far as possible on this issue. As for Mrs Zofia Czernow's questions from the Civic Platform... You asked the Member about the scale of drug exports. We estimate it for about PLN 1.5 billion. This is a huge scale, with specific therapeutic groups and specific drugs that are exported being monitored on an ongoing basis. We receive information from various regions of Poland. On this basis, on the basis of information on the non-accessibility of these products, a small percentage of pharmacies in the region in question are created lists of products at risk of export from the territory of the Republic of Poland and, in the case of those products, the entity wishing to export must notify the pharmaceutical inspection that such exports are to take place. As we have noted that this mechanism does not work and we do not have these notifications, a number of actions have been taken to strengthen our control and control activities in this area. The recently reviewed law on monitoring the export of road and rail goods serves precisely this purpose and in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in the field of the operation of the National Tax Administration these checks will be increased. An agreement has been signed between the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector and the KAS on the exchange of information on medicines that may be subject to illegal exports. As regards the public consultation - this was another question - they took place as part of the work of the subcommittee. Most reservations or questions concerned the scope of reporting in the ZSMOPL system. It must be pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, that, first, under the applicable law, these systems should be fully operational, second, from a purely managemental point of view and decision-making in the Ministry of Health, we need to know how products move on the Polish market in terms of their distribution chains, as well as from a pharmacovigilance point of view, we need to know where the products are and in what quantity they are. We had a pretty archaic monitoring system that was supposed to be switched automatically to a digital system based on an IT system. However, this was not the case at all. This explains our determined efforts to make this system work at last. Mrs Fabisiak's question was whether these records would eliminate or prevent the export of medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with illegal drug exports is a consequence of how effective the Ministry of Health is in negotiating the prices of medicines that are among the lowest in Europe in Poland. This is actually the reason why medicines from Poland, but not only from Poland, because also from other countries of our region, such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic or the Baltic countries, are exported and are sold with profit in the richer countries of the European Union, where these prices are higher. Please note that lower unit prices of medicines are an opportunity to provide treatment for a wider group of patients, for wider indications of these medicines, e.g. in cancers and in many, many other indications. That's not up for discussion. The fact is that entrepreneurs who do this are extremely creative when it comes to avoiding the law. Hence, all the provisions which were also raised in the speeches of Members representing parliamentary clubs, the provisions aimed at eliminating the possibility of, at the same time, the operation of the wholesaler and the medicinal entity, which subsequently allowed certain to a greater or lesser extent shift of stocks in the form of bookkeeping along the distribution channel or for the flow between the healthcare provider and the wholesaler in order to allow illegal exports. The next question was, will supervisory and control powers be sufficient if the GIF is addressed by the pharmacists who work at the pharmacy and from there have their professional, professional experience? It seems so. These farmers, of course, also deal with wholesale trade, have ongoing contacts with wholesalers, with wholesale orders, and thus indirectly know the wholesale market. Moreover, it seems to us that such diversification of competences and professional experience in comparison with the fact that there are not many candidates to perform control functions in the GIF seems to be most justified. Those were the answers to the questions. I have two minutes left, so let me refer to the questions that appeared in the comments from the clubs. Reducing the possibility of combining economic activity - that is what I have already mentioned. The reason for the cheap drugs... As regards the issue raised by the Kukiz club representative15, the inspection, the control of the GIF in the responsible entities, I would like to say that this is a supplement to a certain gap that occurred on the market. At the time of ordering its production by the marketing authorisation holder of the product, GIF was not able to control such a place. He's gonna be able to do that right now. With regard to the withdrawal during the obligation to transmit data, I have already referred to this. There was a historical context there. As far as the Modern Question is concerned, I have already referred to the participation of the social side. Greater control of pharmaceutical market participants has found support in the eyes of modern and virtually all clubs. As far as further amendments to pharmaceutical law are concerned, such amendments will take place as much as possible. I already told you that. We hope that this regulation will indirectly increase the number of inspectors and diversify their professional experience. High Izbo! I would like to thank you once again for supporting the revision of the pharmaceutical law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. Today's draft law aims to bring national legislation into line with European Union legislation, among others. by clarifying the regulation on the manufacture of advanced therapy medicinal products - hospital exceptions. In addition, the project introduces regulations aimed at preventing conflicts of interest of persons employed in the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. According to the new rules, they are not expected to be linked to the supervisory entities. What is important, after work in committee, this provision has also been supplemented by apothecary chambers. I am convinced that this will promote the transparency of the system and eliminate potential corruption. As has been repeated many times during the committee meeting, this solution is in line with expectations. I also support the suspension of the imposition of fines on traders marketing medicinal products, foodstuffs refunded for particular nutritional uses and medicinal products refunded and the suspension of the obligation for traders to provide certain data to the Integrated Marketing Monitoring System for Medicinal Products. As the applicants point out, not all entrepreneurs were ready to introduce a reporting obligation in this system. The new regulations give time to adapt the systems so that no one has problems fulfilling this obligation. I am pleased that the government is listening to the voices of those interested in these solutions and is actually considering them. I am also pleased to waive the obligation to attach to the application to launch a clinical trial contracts concluded between the parties involved in the study. Thanks to this solution, Poland joins other countries of the European Union, which by eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy open to the development of science. About Free and Solidarnia will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u131	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Report of the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Investment Act on the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws (Prints No. 2504 and 2562). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u132	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and Energy and Treasury, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Investments in Condensed Natural Gas Regasification Terminal in Świnoujście and some other laws, prints No. 2504 and 2562. The project was addressed to first reading on 8 May this year, and on 16 May the first reading of the joint committee was held: environmental protection and energy. High Izbo! The purpose of the Government of the Republic of Poland is to ensure that gas supply from alternative sources to Russian sources is possible, so that it is possible not to extend the Jamaican contract, which is due to expire in 2022. Dependence on the dominant supplier is linked to the risk of restrictions or interruptions in gas supply. We have to end this condition. In order for Poland to become independent, it is necessary to make investments that will enable gas to be imported from new directions and to distribute this gas across the country through the Polish transmission system. High Izbo! The necessary investments include, first, the expansion of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście, so that it can be increased capacity, the provision of bunkering services for ships and the transhipment of liquefied natural gas into railway containers, and secondly, the connection of Poland with gas deposits in the Norwegian continental shelf by the Danish transmission system, which will enable the supply of about 10 billion m3 of gas per year, i.e. approx. 60% Polish gas demand. The existing legal solutions contained in the 2009 terminal specialty are not sufficient and will not allow all necessary investments to be made within the desired period in such a way as to ensure continuous, stable and secure supplies and the transmission of natural gas. Changes are needed, in particular those contained in the Article. 16, Art. 19a-19d, Art. 20, 22 and 24, articles. 25a, Art. 27, Art. 36a and Article 36a 38 of this bill. The proposed changes lead to a significant reduction in the time taken to prepare and implement the investment. First, the decision to determine the location of the terminal investment is the final act. It addresses all issues in such a way that administrative authorities do not consider them. once again resolved cases for proceedings to be carried out by the competent authorities, as well as to limit timeless handling of cases. The new rules will facilitate the acquisition of property rights, the introduction of temporary restrictions on the use of real estate or the acquisition of service by the investor. In particular, amendments to the Article. 16 provide that the rules on the removal of trees and shrubs contained in the Environmental Law shall not apply to immovable property covered by the decision to determine the location of investments in the terminal, except in the case of immovable property entered in the Register of Monuments. In turn, the amendments to Article. 19 provide that the decision on environmental conditions and the review must be taken within 45 days of the date of receipt of the request or appeal - here are in principle changes in the scope of the appeal - the competent authority will fine PLN 1000 for each day of delay both in one case and in the other case. This will certainly improve the conduct of the proceedings. Group of articles added, i.e. Article 2 19a-19d. If for testing, measurements, archaeological, geological, hydrogeological or geotechnical tests, etc. it is necessary to enter the property of others, the investor may apply to the competent local voivode for a decision to allow the entry into the property of others. Previously, it must request its owner to agree on the manner, scope and date of use of the property. On the other hand, if the owner does not agree within 30 days, the voivode shall issue an authorisation decision, of course in favour of compensation. This use of someone else's property must not result in any interruption of road or rail traffic or the safety risks of that traffic. Art. 20 provides that the decision to determine the location shall result in the ownership of the State Treasury of the real estate located in the land-marking lines of the investment, the acquisition of perpetual use rights and property rights of buildings and permanently connected with the land of the equipment, as well as the exclusion of limited rights in rem. In turn, the provisions of the Article. 22 provide that the decision to determine the location is the basis for the decision to terminate the permanent management of the land on the Management Board of State Forest Forests and to terminate the lease, lease or loan contracts within one month. Art. 24 and 25a concern the limitation of the use of real estate. The changes introduced give the possibility to authorise the setting up and operation of ground and underground equipment, etc., while the limitation of the use of the property may also be granted to an entity other than the investor. For the land of the State Treasury, these restrictions occur without compensation, I stress: for the land of the State Treasury. Art. 27 imposes an obligation on the State Forestry Forests to cut down trees and shrubs and clean them up on properties managed by the State Forests and covered by the permission to build investments in terminal areas. Art. 36a. In accordance with these provisions, only the investor shall agree to change the final decision to determine the location without the need to obtain the consent of the other parties to the proceedings. It is obvious that in such extensive administrative proceedings the number of pages is enormous. We refer here to the article. 155 of the Code of Administrative Procedure and by analogy with Article. 36a Construction law. If this solution had not been introduced, any changes would have been extremely difficult. High Izbo! The enforcement authority implementing non-monetary obligations shall be the voivode, in accordance with the provisions of Article. 37a. High Izbo! A revised article. 38 includes the calculation of all necessary components of planned gas pipelines, nodes or gas pressing stations, connections, regasification stations, bunkering and handling bases. This list is long, expressis verbis is specified in this Article. 38. I'm not going to quote it, any of you can get to know it. High Izbo! The proposed solutions limit the rights of right-holders to immovable property located on the dividing lines only to the extent necessary to achieve this objective of construction, the intended construction of planned equipment. The interference in property rights or limited substantive rights or obligations was introduced here only in situations where no other solutions could be found. This draft contained in the report of the joint committees also provides for the protection of the interests of those whose rights are restricted. The extent of the possible activities of the investor, the area of activity of the administrative authorities and the issues of appropriate compensation for damage or loss shall be specified in detail. Thus, High Izbo, the proposed rules ensure respect for the interests of entities whose rights will be restricted in connection with the preparation or implementation of this very important investment for Poland. High Izbo! The legislative arrangements discussed are intended to ensure that the necessary equipment is completed in the spring of 2022 and that the necessary equipment is launched in the autumn of 2022. The Joint Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Energy and the Treasury adopted the report by 28 votes in favour, with no votes against, with 4 abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Environmental Committees and the Energy and Treasury Committee, please adopt the draft law in print No 2562. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u133	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present the position of the club in relation to the draft law submitted by the government amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws, print No. 2504. The aim of the project is to enable efficient government activities in the field of diversification of gas sources in Poland, as well as the full and sustainable supply of gas to the national economy and households. Investment in further expansion of the liquefied natural gas terminal is needed to achieve this objective. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście, consisting of increasing terminal capacity, providing ship bunkering services, transshipment of liquefied natural gas into railway containers, as well as the connection of the Republic of Poland with gas deposits on the Norwegian Continental shelf through the Danish transmission system, which will allow delivery to Poland of about 10 billion m3 of gas per year. These activities are directly related to the conversion - adaptation - of gas transmission infrastructure, which is historically oriented from the east to the west. Such an energy policy of the government is fully supported by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In order to achieve these objectives efficiently and quickly, there is a need for changes to existing legislation: Environmental law, Environmental Information Act, Liquefied Gas Investment Act, Real Estate Management Act, Marine Areas Act. The solutions proposed by the government in the draft are suitable for investment needs and intended objectives. The proposed changes have taken advantage of past experience in the implementation of investments based on specializations. Only those provisions which raised interpretational doubts or did not clearly resolve the concepts and terms defined by the laws have been amended to unduly prolong the granting of permits or decisions. The draft law provides for certain restrictions in the area of ownership, but they are only introduced in situations where other solutions could not be applied, but with full protection of the interests of persons whose rights are restricted. The project guarantees adequate compensation. Such solutions should be assessed positively. A reasonable solution is the proposal not to grant compensation for restricting the use of land owned by the State Treasury. This solution is logical and reduces investment costs. The interference of the proposed law in nature and environment legislation is relatively small and justified by the need for efficient and rapid implementation of the investment. The proposed amendment concerns the exemption from permits for the removal of trees - and the charges for them - from the areas covered by the decision to determine the location of the investment. In this area, provision is also made for a 45-day period to consider appeals against environmental considerations decisions and penalties for non-compliance within the time limit for those decisions. The proposed changes are necessary and substantively justified in the project. Energy security is a fundamental guarantee of economic development, but also of the comfort and peaceful life of citizens. The proposed act will undoubtedly contribute to the rapid diversification of gas supply, thus ensuring the energy security of Poland. In order to achieve this objective, planned investments are necessary, which must be completed by the end of 2022, i.e. before the expiry of the Jamaican contract. The draft law submitted by the government in print 2504 is well and thoroughly justified. He received positive opinions from the combined energy committees and environmental committees and meets the challenge of the Polish state of affairs. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed proposal and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u135	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u136	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We support this project, as in general the issue of self-emancipation, the independence of Poland from gas from Russia as the only supplier and the issue of building a certain energy security system. However, I would like to take the opportunity to ask a few questions of the Minister, because if such a law comes after 3 years, it is a concern whether the implementation of the Baltic Pipe project by 2022 is not at risk, as there is a little feeling like you are only now seeing some problems. And we have our experiences here, unfortunately. You have often emphasized the Members of the PiS - you both did - that the gasport is President Lech Kaczyński, and we remember that you were planning a lot, you did a lot, and in the end you nailed the sign that the port is Lech Kaczyński, because everything inside was done by us. And the problem is that maybe in a year and a half, when you give us power, we'll have very little time until 2022. Hence our fears, because we have our experience in this matter. If the Minister had been kind enough to tell us how many. Warehouses or how many pipelines you've built over the last two and a half years, I'd be very obliged if you'd tell me what powers you've built. I would like to ask you about the costs of this project, because today the costs of this project are on us, which means on my wife, on our neighbors, on everyone who pays gas bills, and on our business... [[On the kids.]] ...on the Azots, in fact, which you have forced to sign with PGNiG. Okay, okay, but why aren't there business partners here? After all, this is not a project for the Polish state, it is a project for business, and such projects are done within the framework of business projects. This is not what you are looking for for for these projects, this business support, as if you did business in this project or commercialization of this project already at the stage of creation. This is a fundamental mistake, and actually a little bit and your convenience, because you focus on taxpayers, on Polish customers, you put it on the shoulders of the Polish gas recipient who is forced to use PGNiG, and business, such as Azoty, and retail. You just put it on these shoulders. In this sense, It also raises concerns about the commercialisation of this project, because, Minister, you - I feel this way, maybe wrong, you can convince me that I am wrong - stop the extension of the interconnectors at the same time. It's not like you guys can't handle their construction, you're holding it back because you think it's some kind of threat to state security if there are interconnectors. No, it's a state security system, too, needed in case of an emergency, because security, Minister, is not a day-to-day situation, the security system is built in case of an emergency, and every interconnector is security. in an emergency situation. You have no right to hold off on this. I understand that for some reason you're doing this completely ideologically. I understand that in vitro is ideological to you, but gas can't be ideological. There can't be ideological gas. I'd like you to address this issue. Another issue, perhaps not so important from the point of view of the state, but important from the point of view of the citizens. We have made some progress in looking at compensation. Because it actually happened when these laws were created, that the first thing that was said about compensation was that it was an administrative decision of the voivode. However, in subsequent laws we have already developed a model, a model which assumes that we must not hold back the investment. These are really key investments, and it would be bad here if any dispute were to hold back these projects. We give the power of government administration to issue damages decisions and the investment is continued, but this does not interfere with the Polish citizen, the owner of the appeal to the court, and the court will determine whether the value of compensation determined by the voivodeship is appropriate. This does not stop investment, it does not jeopardise the security of the state, but guarantees citizens' right to determine the value of compensation, not the official by decision. We know too many biased official decisions, especially with this pressure, when on one side is the state company PGNiG, Gaz-System, and on the other side is the ordinary citizen. We know what the voivodeship's decision will be, we know what it's going to be. We see it, we see it with a lot of investments. We saw it in Świnoujście on investment. There should be a court order here, Minister. Think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the point of view of the state, the cost is not, from the point of view of civil rights, the price is very high. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The gas terminal in Świnoujście, whose specialization is the transhipment and regasification of liquefied LNG gas, is a strategic investment for Poland. There's no question about that. This is practically a teenage story from the moment of the concept itself to the first delivery. In general, it complements the energy security system of Poland, and thus also constitutes the sovereignty of our country, because energy independence is always a state sovereignty. The club's position concerns the proposed amendments to the Investment Act in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. Here the definition of the concept of terminal has been extended, taking into account power, water, sewage, heat, telecommunications, telecommunications, road, rail, waterfronts, storage areas, production and manufacturing buildings and the like. The definition of the infrastructure needed to operate the gas system network has also been added. Generally Polish LNG, a public limited company based in Świnoujście, a subsidiary of the gas-gas-system pipeline operator, will continue to be responsible for the construction and reconstruction of the terminal and the construction of a gas-powered cogeneration unit in Świnoujście with the infrastructure necessary to operate it. The bill provides for a multibillion-dollar expansion of the gasport in Świnoujście. This is a milestone in the dissemination of LNG. The planned extension concerns the construction of a second station for several hundred-metre gas carriers, a tank, a railway siding, etc. The dissemination of this fuel in Poland will affect the need to expand the network of LNG liquid gas regasification stations. Here it will be important to determine the location of the investment in the terminal - unfortunately it will not be so that the investment will be carried out on the State Treasury land. One such position can serve a ship carrying up to 200,000 once. t liquefied raw material. The draft law regulates issues such as the characteristics of investment planning in the field of terminal, research or other work necessary to produce a report on the environmental impact of the project. In addition to the construction of the terminal in Świnoujście, many investments in the construction of pipelines are also marked in this act, and I will definitely say that they are expanding the gas transmission network in Poland, for example the expected construction of the Racibórz - Oświęcim pipeline together with the infrastructure necessary for its operation in the Silesian and Małopolska voivodships. Work on the connections with our southern neighbour also needs to be added here. Now there are some doubts and I have these questions, Minister: Wouldn't these multi-billion-dollar investments actually translate directly into the price of gas for individual customers? How is it possible to secure funds for such investments on the State Treasury and on the investor's side? Here's another thing. Will investment in the Geo-Metan programme also be taken into account in connection with this law? This is also a developmental technology for degassing the surface deck of coal. Will it be included here, at a later stage, in those networks that are designed for transmission? I have a question about security, including those future investments... Of course - parallel to the work on LNG transmission. The question is whether the Geo-Metan project can also be supported in parallel with this investment. Another thing, the question of the security of all these investments. It is also essential to ensure the safety of the terminal, secure the transmission, secure any infrastructure related to this multi-billion-dollar investment. Will it therefore also increase the investment effort to increase the security of all these investments? This is also crucial for the safety of the entire project. I'm talking strictly in today's... It is not only about technological security, but also about protecting against external threats, widely understood. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. We strongly support investments in the future of Polish transmission in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. Appreciating, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic importance of investments related to the expansion of the scope of investments in the liquefied natural gas terminal located in Świnoujście, and the need to amend the Act of 24 April 2009 drawn up by Prime Minister Donald Tusk's first government, I would like to point out the following. A significant part of the revision of the document is linked to the need to systematise the rules for the granting of consents and permits in connection with changes in the areas of competence of ministries and government administrations, which is linked to the need to meet the formal requirements for the implementation of the investment in question. A comprehensive description of the infrastructure needed to operate, in particular bunkering and LNG handling bases, should be considered as positive, which could positively affect investments of a synergistic nature, particularly in the maritime and rail transport sectors. It is also positive to introduce provisions on infrastructure investments in Poland related to the implementation, the creation of an interconnecting Baltic gas pipeline, Baltic Pipe. However, in view of the significant extension of the scope and area of the investment, I ask the government and you, Minister, to present the following materials: the list of properties covered by the planned decisions to determine the location of investments in the West Pomerania region - in terms of terminal and accompanying investments - which are prepared to be expropriated by the State Treasury for compensation to current owners; the rules adopted to calculate the limit of expenditure from the state budget for the payment of compensation resulting from certain investment plans included in the new Article. 5.1 of the draft amendment to the law for the years 2018 to 2027; the detailed rules adopted for the implementation of compensation payments related to the acquisition of immovable property, together with the rules for supervision of the eligibility of expenditure, as well as the limits laid down by the proposed law for payments made from the State budget in each year. I would also like to know how environmental damage related to the logging of trees and shrubs will be compensated for by local governments. The fees mentioned in the explanatory memorandum appear to be considerably excessive. The rates have decreased several times since last year. But knowing, ladies and gentlemen, that this investment is of strategic importance for the Republic of Poland, the Modern will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats supports this project. I will not once again quote all the arguments arising from the justification for the bill. Energy independence is very important for our economy, for our country. The law, which has been in operation since 2009, needs to be amended, needs to be improved. There are experiences from the period of its functioning, and it seems to have met expectations. It is a good thing that at the moment this act is not accompanied by the emotions that were previously around the construction of the port in Świnoujście. We remember how many unnecessary emotions there were, how these tanks broke, how they didn't meet the deadline, but we all wanted the gasport to function and function. I think that this will should continue to be done through this specialty, because it is an intentional bill, a special act that is supposed to facilitate the investment process, so there are no more details here, but an intentional law... We will support these solutions, but the details, I think, will be in the future. Once again, I would like to say that the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u144	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! High Seym! The law concerning the amendment of the Act on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws on which we are proceeding is a law of strategic importance for the Polish economy. Unfortunately, my esteemed colleague Nitras from the Civic Platform is not here, who regretted that at the moment this law is being prosecuted, and feared that in the future, when they took over power, it would be difficult for him and his colleagues from the Civic Platform to carry out this investment. I must reassure the Member and say that I am convinced that the Government of the United Right, the Government of Law and Justice, will implement this investment with effect, for the sake of Poland, for the sake of the Polish economy and energy security not only of our country, but of the whole Central and Eastern Europe. I would like to remind you at this point that the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk in 2007 when he took over the government in Poland, unfortunately stopped this investment, the terminal in Świnoujście, and for more than a year wondered whether to continue it. Unfortunately, from the point of view of Donald Tusk, then Prime Minister, this investment could not be stopped. However, the government's policy to enter into the construction of Nord Stream 1, then Nord Stream, that is to say, to support Russian-German policy on supply dominance, to monopolise Russia's supply under the conditions dictated by Russia, made Poland dependent on Russian gas supply. [[Mr...]] All the more so it is necessary to point out the signed agreement or continuation, the extension of the Yamal contract in 2011 under scandalous conditions, under conditions that humiliated Poland in terms of prices that we must pay, and these are the highest supply prices for gas in Europe. This is a thing to return to in the future, concerning responsibility for the state of Poland and the Polish economy, political decisions taken in this area. On the other hand, today the Polish government takes the opposite action, of course not against anyone, but in the interest of Poland, in the interest of the Polish economy, in terms of diversification of supplies. These are plans for the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, these are contracts for the supply of liquefied LNG gas from Qatar or the United States, as well as the construction of interconnectors, new pipelines, which are intended to increase security in Poland, flow, redistribution of gas towards Ukraine or south of Europe. That's what this bill's supposed to be for. This is a very good law which guarantees Poland's security, or at least is going in this direction, to guarantee Poland's security in terms of gas supply. Expansion of gas terminal in gasport in Świnoujście im. President Lech Kaczyński, who is to increase the gas supply capacity from 5 billion m3 per year to 7.5 billion m3, this is a matter of importance, as I said earlier, strategic and fundamental from the point of view of Poland's economic interest. There are also a number of technical issues that have been mentioned here, and my honourable speakers have spoken about this, the rapporteur, Mrs Paluch, who presented details of the procedure for the bill, and I will not repeat that. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this bill deserves absolute support. The Free and Solidarnia Circle fully supports the bill submitted to the High House and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The gas terminal in Świnoujście and its expansion, modernization is a spectacular investment in liquefied natural gas. Is there a well-known investment contractor? What is the scheduled date for the possible completion of the construction? And in general who is responsible for construction, installation management, LNG regasification in Poland at this moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u148	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, an important law, which was passed in 2009, is today, of course, being adjusted for Poland's energy independence. We hope that it will cover all of this and will have the upper... economic bill over these supplies of gas as well. I wanted to ask the Minister because we are talking about some strategy, although to the end the Members of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury do not know what the strategy of government activity is in the context of energy independence and, above all, gas Poland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: How many new gas blocks have been created or how many have been created since 2015 until today? How many will be created after the introduction, after the construction of those pipelines, which the Minister in this annex wrote down in his bill? And when Members learn the whole strategy related to Polish gas industry [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Like the representative of our club, I supported the project and I am glad that despite changing governments, things are treated by successors so that the predecessors did wrong. On the other hand, on the issue of fundamental economic and socio-economic independence in this area, we have similar views on energy security, and here we really support this. I would like to ask you about specific things related to the economic tests that were to take place or are to take place, what is their outcome. And there is basically an issue related to the schedule of phase II open season that says that the formal decision is to be made this year, by the end of this year, with regard to investment. As I understand it, this decision is due to the fact that there will be no extension of the Jamaican contract. I'm so happy for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it is going in such a direction, so that it is possible to diversify this power supply of the Polish economy. And in this context I wanted to ask you, Minister, because there will be an alternative direction: How do you view this extortion, it can be said, by Members of the Law and Justice, that a 400 MW gas plant will not be created in Puławy? They argue it's going to be a Russian gas plant, and I quote...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u151	Please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u152	...in that case, when I know that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u153	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u154	...from 2022, we'll be completely...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u156	... regardless of the eastern direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is, of course, an important area of debate and I am glad that our thoughts go in the same direction as regards energy security of Poland and independence from supply from one source, because this is, I would say, such a key issue from the point of view of not only the energy security of the state, but also the broadly understood security of the state. On the other hand, there should probably also be a debate on the impact of investments that are of course necessary, but will partly also concern citizens in such a way that expropriations of some kind will take place, because somewhere this infrastructure needs to be built. In this connection, I wanted to ask the Minister in this respect: What will be the scale of expropriations, how many individuals can be involved, how many local governments and what the rules on compensation will be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the expropriations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! With regard to the questions of my colleagues on the Platform, I would very much like to ask the Minister to prepare such an analysis for the meeting of the treasure committee, or perhaps even a special meeting of the Sejm, if necessary, so that we can understand what the idea of the government is and what it is to think about diversifying gas supplies, buying from the Russian side, from the American side, for how long and in what period do you plan to buy Russian gas, as you think about how to shape American gas prices. Because the fact that we need to diversify is absolutely obvious, but frankly, I can't imagine that we're going to be consciously buying, if we don't have to, more expensive American gas from cheaper Russian. Press reports are contradictory. I didn't get any answers from the ministry, and I've already submitted a few questions and interpellations, so I would very much, Minister, be obliged, because the subject is a dragonfly and sooner or later it will certainly come out in this room and appear in space. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u161	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Government's representative for the strategic energy infrastructure of Minister Piotr Naimski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will first refer to those comments which were the subject of the speeches of the representatives of the club state. Maybe we should start with the deadline for the investment. The deadline is, of course, related to the implementation of the schedule, the schedule primarily of the construction of Baltic Pipe. Baltic Pipe is a project, which is a complicated project, because it starts on the Norwegian shelf, is a Danish section under the Baltic Sea, as well as a whole large fragment and pressing to build in Poland. I can say that this complex project is now being implemented exactly according to the timetable. At the moment we are at the stage of collecting data for environmental impact report, geotechnical data, geophysical data. All permits in this area were issued in the countries which had to issue them, namely Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Poland. This month we will have the final route chosen from the submarine pipeline section based on the analysis of the materials collected in this way. The construction is planned in this schedule that we are implementing. The construction of the submarine section, because this is the most interesting media section, will start in spring 2020 and is scheduled for 24 months. So that right now we're doing everything as planned. This is one of the questions that has been asked here, the investor on the Polish side is the transmission system operator Gaz-System, a company which is 100% company of the Treasury and which is the only national operator to remain. Gaz-System builds a submarine stretch from the Danish beach, you can say, to Poland, and of course it expands the system in our country. I will refer right here to the comments that were directed towards the commercialisation of this investment. Well, that's a misunderstanding. Transport infrastructure is owned and owned, including new transmission infrastructure, national operator, i.e. Gaz-System. We do this, we act in accordance with European Union law on this matter. That's, among other things. Gaz-System is therefore an investor in the submarine segment. However, as far as commercialisation is concerned, this question, yes, is justified, but in a completely different context. This is the context of liberalisation, the release of the gas market in Poland. The investments we are making are also the basis for the real competition in the gas market in Poland, competition between all available and many of them, LNG producers, liquefied gas accepted by the gasport in Świnoujście, and producers on the Norwegian shelf, very different ones who will sell this gas to Poland. Only this situation will allow real market competition, not competition with the administrative-Russian price dictated by Gazprom. If we are talking about costs for customers in Poland, it is worth considering the cost of non-diversification, because the cost of non-diversification is precisely the cost imposed by monopolistic Gazprom, which dictates a high price for us. Of course, that is also to be taken into account. In the transmission tariff, because you have to say, the truth, what it looks like, the Gas-System, but we're not talking about the gas fare, we're talking about the transmission tariff, which, of course, is one of the cost elements, is going to be an increase. It's clear. It's gonna have to be like this. Now, as far as - I'm sorry, such a remark, I was simply taking note, as you said here - security, it is not unusual. Safety is everyday. If someone thinks state security is unusual, it's irresponsible. As regards more specific issues, Mr Sitarski asked whether this special law, on which we are proceeding here, would allow the introduction of facilitations for investments in the exploitation of methane from coal decks, methane. No. Here in this special act it is not directly present, because here are enumeratively listed investments, which are covered by a special act. However, Gaz-System, as an operator, obviously takes into account this possibility of obtaining a completely new gas source in Poland, if this is real and PGNiG is currently planning investments in this area, then, of course, from the point of view of the gas transmission system this expansion will be necessary where necessary. It's obvious. As for - I'm sorry, here too - open season, second phase, no, it's all behind us. It's just behind us. The open season procedure in this project is long completed. It ended with the signing of binding contracts that are already signed between PGNiG and operators, i.e. Danish Energinet and Gaz-System. These are 15-year supply contracts from 2022 to 2037. There's no doubt about it here. As for - I'm sorry, this is how I look at my notes from this debate - the list of properties to be covered, we cannot include this list of real estate in the bill because we do not have localization decisions. It's just a situation that can't be done. This is a directional law, this is a law that gives us tools to accelerate with respect to general principles, speed up decision making, and shortens the time for some appeals. I wanted to reassure a Member who was very concerned about the absence of legal appeals. In fact, in this law it is possible to appeal in the absence of consent to the valuation of compensation to the administrative court. I suggest you read the bill carefully. As far as the scale is concerned, Mr Suchoń asked about this, these possible expropriations, of course with compensation, etc., again it is so that it ultimately depends on the course of these linear investments. We always try, the investor, of course, is trying to keep these interferences as little as possible. It's clear. It is easier, of course, when these linear investments pass through land that is in the State Treasury domain, because this is often the case, for example. Forests. And it's actually... [[Power plants.]] Power plants, yes, now. Yeah, that's the whole question, and I answer it the same way, and I'm really trying to get us to talk rationally. We anticipate a certain amount of gas-based energy in energy policy for a long time. It's going to be a scale, let's say, 1.5. GW is about, of course, flexible, it will still be flexible. But why are we limiting in some ways the amount of energy shifted to gas or built on the basis of gas raw materials? Because in our strategy, of course, there is still concern that in the perspective of 30 years, because of the need to talk about this perspective, coal is maintained as the most important raw material for energy in Poland. Gas blocks are important for regulatory reasons, i.e. If we decide to do this and decide to support the construction of wind farms at sea, we must have some regulatory capacity in the national energy system, and that will give us gas blocks. The construction of such gas blocks - one or two - is planned on the bottom of the Oder. Why on the lower Oder? Because it is close to the sources of supply, it is, of course, rational. There is not yet a final decision on the location of one or possibly two new blocks. I guess that would be pretty much everything. Thank you very much. I would like to thank all of you for understanding the importance of this problem and in general for supporting this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u163	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Parliamentary drafts of laws amending the House Property Act (Prints No 2224, 2510 and 2594). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u164	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy a report on the parliamentary drafts of the laws amending the Property Act 2224 and 2510. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent these draft laws to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy respectively for first reading. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy after first reading and considering these draft laws at its meeting on 5 June 2018 request the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft law amending the Property Act aims to eliminate interpretation doubts arising from the changes introduced by the Act of 20 July 2017 on National Property Resources to the Act of 24 June 1994 on the ownership of premises concerning the separation of independent dwellings and the competence of the old-timer to examine the grounds for the separation of independent dwellings. As from 11 September Ub. R. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2 (2) 1a The law on the ownership of premises establishes a separate ownership of the self-catering premises, either according to the findings of the local spatial planning plan or the content of the decision on the conditions of construction and land-use and in accordance with the building permit or the effective notification, and according to the permit for use. A separate property in a residential and single-family building may represent at most two independent dwellings. The doubts raised in the context of the provision concern the absence of a clear determination of the addressee of the standard required to examine the compatibility of the separation of an independent dwelling according to the findings of the local plan or decision on the conditions of construction and spatial planning and other building decisions. In addition, interpretation doubts arose in the area of separation of self-contained dwellings in buildings constituting an old residential substance in cases where there is no planning and construction documentation. The proposed amendment to the House Property Act takes into account the most frequently reported problems hindering the application of the House Property Act, problems raised by municipalities, housing cooperatives, district old townships, MEPs, senators, institutions and organisations in the field of the Art. 2 (2) 1a, which concerns the release of self-contained dwellings in buildings created before the date of entry into force of this provision, i.e. before 11 September Ub. R., where no planning and construction documentation is available. Thanks to the solutions introduced, the purpose of the amendment of the Property Act will be met. It was intended to clearly define the rules for the separation of independent dwellings by taking into account the findings of the local plan, decisions on construction conditions and building decisions. The issue of self-reliance certificates before 11 September 2017 by the old lady also complicated the inconsistent issue of the case law of the administrative courts. The proposed regulation will help to improve the procedure for issuing self-certifications by limiting the obligation to examine the compatibility of the planned separation of dwellings with spatial planning and construction documents only to buildings created after 1 January 1995. At the same time, it is necessary to emphasise that irregularities in the production of premises which have become a reason for adding in Article. 2 Act on the ownership of premises. 1a, refer to buildings created in recent years. High Izbo! The draft law will not have any financial implications for the state budget or the budgets of local government units. The project has a positive social impact and is not the subject of European Union law. High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of a bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome. [[Wrong number.]] [[No, it's not. It's a mistake. Me on behalf of the club.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Come on in. I'm sorry, but that's what I got from the office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u166	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present the position of my club vis-à-vis the rules discussed by the rapporteur. High Izbo! The purpose of this bill is to remove doubts regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the House Property Act after its amendment by the Act of 20 July 2017 on National Property Resources. The provision was introduced at that time in Article. 2 (2) 1a that, I quote, the establishment of a separate ownership of the self-catering shall be carried out in accordance with the findings of the local spatial planning plan or the content of the decision on the conditions of construction and land-use, and in accordance with the building permit or the effective notification, and in accordance with the permit for use. A separate property in a single-family building may constitute at most two independent dwellings. Let me remind you that this provision introduced last year was intended to remove the legal gap caused by the case-law of the courts, which was extremely conflicting. Within the building of a single family building, developers simply built multi-dwelling houses and used this gap caused by the case law, secreted and sold a much larger number of housing units, resulting in conflicts with residents, inability to establish good communication services and all other types. Thus, High Izbo, the problem with the interpretation of this provision, which was amended last year in the House Property Act, is that the expressis verbis, which the entity is to test the compatibility of the way the premises are secreted with the ones mentioned in paragraph, was not defined at that time. 1a construction documents. The starosts refuse to issue certificates of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article. 2 (2) 1a Act on the ownership of premises, although it is the starosts who have the proper resources of documents, because they conduct proceedings in the field of architectural and construction administration. High Izbo! Doubtful interpretation of the rules has also arisen in the issue of self-contained dwellings in older buildings, for which no planning and construction documentation is available. I would like to remind you that the obligation to keep this documentation was created only on 1 January 1995, hence the release of independent premises in old buildings and the establishment of separate properties for them became extremely difficult. These are the problems facing two parliamentary projects from prints 2224 and 2510. Yesterday, the Joint Committees: Infrastructure and Local Government and Regional Policy examined the parliamentary drafts of the law amending the House Property Act in prints 2224 and 2510. The committee's decision was that of print 2510. Following the amendments, the final version of the provisions was included in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 2594. It's a sign of the mouth. Article 1a The 2th House Property Act has been corrected. In addition, paragraphs 1b and 1c are added. Paragraph 1b provides that the provisions shall not apply to buildings existing before 1 January 1995 or constructed on the basis of a permit issued before that date, unless construction works requiring building permits have been carried out. It should be noted that exploiting the regulatory gap allowing for circumvention of planning and construction rules, resulting in multiple-family homes in single-family housing areas, creates numerous social conflicts and has increased in recent years. This conflictogenic situation will be countered by the provision of the mouth. 1c, which provides that a separate property in a single-family building may constitute, at most, two separate dwellings. As I say, this does not apply to buildings constructed on the basis of a permit issued before 11 July 2003. Article 3 2 provides that the Starosta, in the form of a certificate, shall certify that the requirements referred to in paragraph have been met. 1a-2. All proceedings not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act in question will be carried out in accordance with the amended provisions. High Izbo! The amendments introduced by this draft law will allow for the improvement of the issuance of certificates on the independence of the dwelling, so that all notarial and judicial activities necessary to establish a separate ownership of the premises can be carried out without obstacles. High Izbo! My club, Law and Justice, will vote in favour of the report of the Joint Committee in print No. 2594. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u167	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the law amending the Property Act. This necessary amendment of the National Resources Act The real estate confirms what kind of legal shit you guys pushed through under the cover of a court-martial fight. We raised this problem, which you have now confessed to, in our Civic Platform, the position on the KZN Act, but you rejected it because the opposition said it. Now, if it weren't for us, the Civic Platform, the revision of your underdeveloped records, you wouldn't have been forced to take the initiative on this matter and you would still be in denial that everything is okay, which is confirmed by the ministers' responses to our interpellations. The purpose of this amendment is to remove the legal gap in the scope of the competence standard resulting from the amendment of the Local Property Act introduced by the KZN Act and to clarify the transitional provisions. With the help of the Law of 20 July 2017 on KZN was introduced in Article. 2 the provision which has caused the current problem that the establishment of a separate ownership of a self-catering premises is carried out in accordance with the findings of the local spatial planning plan or the content of the decision on the conditions of construction and land-use and in accordance with the building permit or the effective notification and the permit for use. A separate property in a single-family building may constitute at most two separate dwellings. The purpose of this regulation was to reduce the practices of certain investors establishing a separate ownership of more premises in single-family buildings than provided for in the local spatial planning plan. The goal was right, just execution - not really. Separate ownership of the premises may be established by contract, as well as by unilateral legal action or by a judgment of a court which is loosing joint ownership in the form of a notarial act. An entry in the everlasting book is necessary to create this property. This process shall be attended by a notary or a civil court ruling on the abolition of joint ownership and a perpetual accounting court. Consequently, the entry into force of the Act on KZN, i.e. Since 11 September 2017, it is not possible to establish the grounds necessary for the effective establishment of a separate ownership of premises as notaries and courts refuse such an entry. A large part of the housing resources of the municipalities are buildings built before World War II, and a larger part of the buildings of housing cooperatives are buildings from the 1960s or 80s of the last century. This problem concerns practically all buildings that were built before 1994, as it is only since 1995 that the owner has been obliged to keep complete documentation of the post-executive construction for the period of existence of the building. Since it is not legally possible to establish a separate ownership of premises from 11 September 2017 and the legal activities involved from that date may be subject to a sanction of nullity and the threat of refusal of entries in perpetual books, it is necessary to enter into force as soon as possible of the proposed amendment to the law, because residents, courts and notaries have difficulty applying the law you are implementing. This is a serious social problem, because these bad records concerning KZN harm cooperatives, municipalities and individual Poles. So we're glad you've listened to us and fixed this mistake. Your amendment consumes our bill and therefore the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u169	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. [[No, it's me.]] You're welcome, sir, but keep an eye on it at the club, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary drafts of the laws amending the Property Act 2224 and 2510. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the aim of the Act is to eliminate interpretation doubts concerning the release of independent dwellings and the competence of the old-timer to examine the grounds for the separation of independent dwellings which were created by the amendment of the Property Act introduced by the National Property Resources Act. The draft Act on National Property Resources was conducted in a unique hurry. All three readings of the project took place not only during one meeting of the Sejm, but even during one day, 20 July 2017. There was no time to reflect on the validity, effectiveness and effectiveness of the rules. The Act entered into force in September Ub. After a short period of time, there were first problems with its use. The changes introduced raise important interpretational doubts, disorganize the work of old men and notaries and, above all, create problems for citizens. This is not an isolated case, which shows what results from the creation of the law without adequate time for reflection, impact assessment, applied amendments. Any faster to push the bill without thinking about the logic of the rules. I am concerned that the ruling party is unable to provide optimal conditions or time to process laws and falls from extremes to extremes. Such instability, instability and uncertainty have an extremely damaging impact on all aspects of public life, and their negative consequences are mainly felt by citizens. The second kind of extreme is the putting aside of some important projects for ever, an excellent example of which is the Kukiz club15, and the citizens' proposal to amend the Housing Cooperatives Act, which is stuck in the Infrastructure Commission. This is all the more amazing because the President, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, in his April speech at Trzcianka, stressed that he saw the problems of lack of any control over housing cooperatives, the existence of a specific state in the country, and promised that there would be a time when the rulers would now make order with it. I ask: When, ladies and gentlemen? From this point of view, I would like to appeal to the Minister, your Members, to delay the reform of Polish housing cooperative for years to come. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have been approached by members of the cooperative in matters of violation of their Member States' rights, non-respect of laws and statutes, various types of infringements, irregularities and pathologies to which they present evidence. The project has been submitted, waiting for work and, above all, the sincere desire to restore normality in the functioning of housing cooperatives. With regard to the projects in question, it must be stated that the whole content of the article. 114 National Resource Act Real estate, even after the amendment has been adopted, is a profound interference with the freedom to conclude civil law contracts, because they depend on administrative rules, even when architectural conditions are fulfilled. Since the entry into force of the Law of 20 July 2017, these provisions introduce chaos and today's clarification will not change much in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u171	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the parliamentary drafts of the laws on the amendment of the law on property of premises contained in prints 2224, 2510 and 2594. High Izbo! Two draft laws were sent to the High House, the aim of which was to remove a certain legal gap in the scope of the competence standard, which was created as a result of the amendment of the Property Act introduced by the National Property Resources Act, and to clarify the transitional provisions contained in that Act. According to the Act which was adopted in 2017, the purpose of the Act was inter alia. shortening the practices of some developers by establishing a separate ownership of more premises in single-family buildings against local zoning plans, building permits and usage permits. It is a good thing that that law has ended these practices because they have introduced chaos and have contributed to, I would say, the emergence of certain neighborhood conflicts precisely because some developers have tried to circumvent the rules. On the other hand, the doubts concerned and concern the lack of clarity, expressis verbis, the determination of the addressee of the standard required to examine the grounds for the compatibility of the separation of the independent dwelling with the findings of the local development plan or the decision on the conditions of construction and spatial development and other building decisions. This makes the elders refuse to issue a complete certificate to the extent provided for in Article. 2 (2) 1a of the Act and are limited solely to the conclusion that the premises are self-contained because of the lack of clear concreteization of the obligation of the old-timer in this respect and without the issue of a complete certificate by the old-timer to examine the conditions for compatibility of the separation of the premises referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1a of the Act, both the notary and the perpetual accounting court may not carry out the necessary steps to establish a separate ownership of the premises. Consequently, from the date of entry into force of the amended law, i.e. Since 11 September 2018, it is not possible to establish the grounds necessary for the effective establishment of a separate ownership of the premises and therefore it is not possible to do so. I think we're all aware that this makes the lives of Poles absolutely complicated. The second question is, for which buildings, when built, are to apply these rules. In our view, the law cannot act backwards, but we cannot close our eyes to those changes that have changed in building law legislation over the last few decades. Within the framework, I would say, the reaction to these signals was created by two laws: the first - the Civic Platform, the second - the Club of Law and Justice. Both have somehow solved this problem, although not taking into account, as I said, the legal changes that have occurred over the years, and I think that a good project has been created within the framework of the committee's work, I would say, taking into account the legal situation of 2003, which was adopted earlier, also in 1995, and in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Law, certain competences have been assigned to old age. Thus, with regard to buildings that existed before 1 January 1995, there was no obligation to store both permits and documents related to construction, therefore these provisions concerning the number of premises will not apply. The same is true of those premises for which construction permits were issued before 15 July 2003 and the assessment of compliance with requirements, assessing whether the requirements have been met, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are referred to in paragraph. 1a-2, assigned to old age. This, of course, takes into account the demands of the Modern Posel Club. As this bill meets the expectations of the social side, the expectations of citizens, we will support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u173	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to welcome young people from upper secondary schools from Jelenia Góra, Karpacz and Szklarska Poręba. These are the winners of the competition: 100 years independent. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] And now I ask Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u174	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating the committee's report on the draft law amending the law on ownership of premises, print no. 2224 and more. The purpose of the law is undoubtedly to avoid a legal gap in the scope of the competence standard, which was created as a result of the amendment of the Property Act introduced by the National Property Resources Act, as well as to clarify the transitional provisions contained in that Act. My previous speakers have already talked about these elements, the records that caused these distortions and difficulties for housing cooperatives, local authorities, seniors in the performance of their duties to issue relevant documents enabling the separation of self-contained premises and to make the relevant entries in the perpetual books as part of the achievement of the objectives of individual users and owners. And it might seem like a good thing that we're updating this, that we're correcting it, except today, probably for the second time, in my second speech, I'm going to ask, when are we going to create, we're going to adopt laws that we're not going to correct within a year? It just so happens that lately, even today, probably for the second or third time today, with the next piece of legislation, we are updating what the High House has adopted in the last year. It is good that we are updating, because if this is to make life difficult for people, it is necessary to do so, but Minister, ladies and gentlemen of our Polish government, we cannot work like this because we will be running out of time to solve new problems. Today's debate also raised the issue that the current provisions and wording also contain suggestions which one opposition party put forward in its work in July that year on this law. And what would have happened if these records - it turned out that they were reasonable - then they were accepted? Maybe that's enough time for us to show that it's not that good just ours. No one can even stand the chance of accepting his suggestions because it doesn't work out so well later and doesn't prove us best as parliamentarians. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of the provisions of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u175	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the questions? If it's me, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about the subject we are discussing, namely the revision of the Property Act. The establishment of a separate property is to take place when the spatial planning plan is compatible with the building permit, in short. My question is: According to what spatial planning plan is to be established separate ownership? Is it current or from the construction of this building? In the Recovered Lands we have e.g. from 1898, not to mention those before the war and just after the war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u177	Thank you very much. [[But the rule has been in force since 1995, Mrs.]] [[No, my fellow Member.]] Please, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the scale of these, so we can say, illegal buildings in single-family multi-family buildings. It's about whether or not we're trying to over-regulate this law. Good, simple laws try to complement, detail. Every now and then it turns out that it is over-regulated, makes it difficult for people to invest, makes it difficult for people to manage their own property. What would happen, for example? It was like we would have removed the entire article at all. 114 and would we allow people under the Civil Code to manage their properties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u179	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u180	Thank you very much. In the context of Mrs Chmiel's embezzling in a club talk about the great legal and social problems that these revised regulations caused last year, I have a question: Isn't it a big social problem that for years the courts have maintained such a legal line that the governor is not bound by the findings of the local plan and the decisions on building conditions or building permits? Isn't it a social problem that the old man, confirming certain circumstances in the certificate of the possibility of separating the premises, knows as the authority issuing the building permit that all this is contrary to the local plan, with the decision on construction conditions that the content of the certificate radically doesn't correspond to the provisions and content of the decisions issued? Isn't it a social problem that houses built by developers appear in areas of quiet single-family housing, where there are no parking spaces, where there are too narrow streets, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Communication based on internal roads does not withstand such pressure of the inhabitants and on top of that the municipalities are deprived of the taxes due? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Halina... [[Can I answer that?]] Mrs Halina and then Mrs Halina. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, in July, we were working on the National Property Resources Act. It's a very important and very extensive bill. I just want to stress that there will certainly be more changes, because we have tried this law at an express rate, at just one, I repeat, at one joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government. No amendment proposed by the opposition at that time, no comments to this law were accepted, were voted negative. This bill today, as you can see, is also seen by the Ministry, because I wrote an interpellation... They answered me positively that there is a need for a change. This change created problems in the trading of existing housing resources both in cooperatives of the State Treasury and in municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: Is the Ministry able to determine the amount of losses incurred due to this annual amendment to the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u183	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Chmiel. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u184	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer Mrs. Finger...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u185	Corrigendum, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u186	Yes, with regard to the speech made by the Member who apparently did not exactly read the draft law that you adopted, because according to the article. 2 meeting the requirements referred to in paragraph. 2, states the oldest in the form of a certificate, but the amendment does not indicate who is to determine the fulfilment of the condition set out in paragraph. 1a of this article. In one article it is written, in one point, in the other it is not written, it is not stated. And it's underdeveloped. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, a few people came to my parliamentary office who had problems with these certificates issued by the old age. It's a good thing there's an amendment. Such a question: Will those who have sought such a certificate have to apply for it again? And how does the Minister predict when this will enter into force and once this case is settled, what is the vacathio legis there? I'm not a member of the committee, and I'd like to hear that in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Artur Soboń will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Members for their consistent support for this project, also for their good work in joint infrastructure committees and local government. These amendments, which have been tabled, in our view, help to resolve the situation that has actually arisen and which you mentioned in your speeches. In the case of Mrs Chmiel's question, my answer is that this is how we address this solution in order to solve this problem. In a situation where we cannot determine, in the case of such old buildings, the compatibility of planning documents with the decision on building permits, we simply will not do so because these documents are not there. What would happen, you asked President Sachaiko. Exactly what Mrs Paluch said. We must not ignore the situation in which construction self-will, because that is what it should be called, generates social conflicts and high social costs, also for the local government and other residents, because the situation in which someone is releasing from the premises a number of premises, which in no way, for example. is not secured by the infrastructure accompanying these premises... [[That's right, you're right.]] ...this is a pathological situation. And that was the answer that came from the KZN Act. I therefore understand that I have also answered the question of the Member. To Mrs Rozpondek - we do not close ourselves to opposition suggestions, hence working together on two projects. Thank you again for these projects. There's no loss here, except, of course, a waste of time, from a cost point of view. However, to answer this question precisely - if the procedure is completed, it will be necessary to re-apply, but if the procedure is in progress, such a proposal will not need to be submitted again and these provisions will govern it. Thank you very much for this debate and for supporting this project. [[Applause]] [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u191	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Property Act of the premises. The adoption of an appropriate amendment is necessary because of the interpretation problems of the existing law and as a result problems in the practical application of the law. The current regulations do not specify which authority examines the grounds for separating the self-apartment described in the Act. In fact, the elders refused to issue a full certificate of compliance with these conditions, and the courts refused to include the property right in the perpetual book. Thanks to the proposed solutions, they will have the power to release self-contained premises inevitably to the starosts, and the condition that the separation takes place in accordance with the findings of the local spatial planning plan or the content of the decision on the conditions for the construction and development of the land, and in accordance with the building permit or the effective notification and the permit for use, will not apply to buildings which were granted a building permit before 1 January 1995 or existed before that date. I am convinced that these amendments will eliminate any doubts so far and by removing the existing obstacle in the form of deficiencies in the documentation of certain buildings prior to 1995 will improve the entire authorisation process. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u193	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda: 17. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services (Print No 2418). 18. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services (Print No 2433). 19. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services (print No 2451). 20. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services (print No. 2519). I ask Mrs Izabela Leszczyna to provide the reasons for the bill in print 2418.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The main objective of this draft law is to harmonise VAT rates on widely understood foodstuffs and fruit. In the current legal situation for these articles, three rates of tax are applied on these products, i.e. 5% 7% and 22% , but in accordance with Article. The last two rates are temporarily raised to 8% and 23%, respectively, by 31 December 2018. The Civic Platform Club's project aims to harmonise VAT rates to 5% for all food currently covered by the rate of 7% - by the end of this year 8% - and food at a tax rate 22% - again by the end of this year 23% - such as coffee, tea, confectionery or chocolate. Among the main advantages of the harmonised VAT rate for food products are three. First of all, it is a simplification of the tax system, a simplification primarily for entrepreneurs. Moreover, this will certainly reduce VAT fraud, as this is a reduction of the systemic gap. And thirdly, the project will certainly protect the poorest, because this is the social group - the least earners - which spends the most on its food earnings. The differentiated VAT rates for food also constitute an administrative barrier for food business operators. On the agenda are situations where operators producing or marketing different foods are required to charge VAT of different amounts for each type of product sold. This makes it difficult to conduct business, but it also creates a room for error, which can result in losses either on the side of the State Treasury or on the side of the entrepreneur. The example of a miserable hot dog is already famous here, in which it actually focuses as in the lens the problem of differing VAT rates on food. Hot dog - i.e. roll, sausage and mustard or ketchup, which is simple, it would seem, the product - is actually all possible VAT rates. The roll itself can be taxed at three different rates, because if its shelf-life is longer than 14 days, then the rate is 23% if it is up to 14 days of shelf-life, but the sugar content is increased, then we have 8%. But if it's just a bun with a 14-day shelf-life date, then we have 5% VAT. You can definitely get lost in this. The sausage is 5%. VAT, but already mustard - 23%, mustard sauce, in fact not to know why - 8% and ketchup - also 8%. Spices: salt and pepper - 8% But it's already marjoram and dill - 23%. From the media reports a few months ago, we know that even such a great businessman as Orlen State Treasury has been selling hot dogs with a lower VAT rate for a year. It means that not only small and medium-sized enterprises have trouble here, but also giants can't handle it. Thus, the differentiation of the VAT rate for food is certainly the area for fraud related to the fraud of the refund of this tax as an indirect tax. And in our view, in the opinion of the designers, the harmonisation of this rate will reduce the risk of fraud and thus the fraud of VAT refunds. And it is worth noting that in this connection the Civic Platform club project fits into a very clear tendency to seal the fiscal system in Poland initiated by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL and continued by the Government of Law and Justice. Our project assumes, as I have already said, a level playing field for food products such as fruit, spices, starch, coffee, tea, chocolate, confectionery, sauces, soups or bread. We have constructed the provisions of the Act exactly as they are constructed today, in Annex 10, where there are goods taxed at a rate of 5%, we add those goods that we want from the catalogue of those with a rate of 23%. and 8% For now, move to the ones with the lower stakes. We do not remove them from there because this methodology was used earlier. Of course, the law bears a certain cost for the state budget. This cost of introducing a 5% rate for non-alcoholic foods is between 1200 million and 1600 million. But I would like to stress that, because this applies to foodstuffs, the reduction in the rate is of social importance, because it should translate into the cost of purchasing these goods. And, as I have already mentioned, this will be particularly important for those groups of consumers that are the poorest. It's got it, of course. also important in the context of the price increase of many foodstuffs. It is social importance not only for the consumer, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the administrative costs associated with the high differential rates are particularly burdensome. This is linked to the complexity of the accounting system, requires additional supervision, controls, leads to classification problems, which thus exposes the taxpayer to error in tax settlement and to unpleasant consequences of this. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are not always able to use the services of professional law firms, especially since these services are not cheap. The differentiation of rates also requires the taxable person to keep track of the descriptions on the packaging of the product or its specifications and promotes abuse of the inclusion on the packaging of the expiry dates appropriate to the application of the lower rate. I said that the bill was a cost, but in our view, the source of funding for its implementation will be the amount of tax that will be paid in connection with the sealing of the VAT system in this area and the reduction of the grey zone. A good example is the example of Orlen, which for a year sold hot dogs with a lower VAT rate, after all, reduced the revenue of the state budget. I would also like to point out that the draft law is in line with European Union law. We got the right opinions from the Foreign Minister. There was a discussion on this at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, but we cleared up some issues with the Sejm Analysis Office and the Bureau admitted that we were right. Nothing prevents the High House from agreeing to the request of the Civic Platform to refer the bill to work in the Public Finance Committee. Of course, the amendment will require the date of entry into force of the Act, because we have submitted it to the Marshal's staff a long time ago and it was to enter into force on 1 January 2018, and this is, of course, no longer possible. But let's remember that we're changing the rules to the benefit of the taxpayer, so we don't have to wait until the next tax year, we can introduce it pretty quickly. I'm counting on the over-party agreement of all the clubs here. I will repeat, in Poland there are millions of retired households, which spend a bunch of their wages on food, and in today's state budget situation, with the so often emphasized successes of the government in sealing the tax system, I am convinced, that the harmonisation of VAT rates will not only be accepted by taxpayers with joy, but will also become a success of the current government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u195	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to state the reasons for the bill in print 2433.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u196	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Low taxes for father and mother - this is the best recipe for an effective demographic policy: reducing taxes in a demographic way. What does this demographic, pro-family fiscal policy look like in the execution of successive governments: PO-PSL, and now Law and Justice? So that the coffins are at a rate of 8%, while clothes and baby carriages are at a rate of 23 percent. So it is clear what the next governments are putting their priorities on. This rate was raised in 2012. We propose to reduce it to relieve young parents at a time when the cost of purchasing clothes is high, which could encourage them to have more offspring - certainly more effectively than other government social programs or programs that also affect parents of almost older children, as well as those who do not expect or expect them to. Get to the point. We propose to reduce the VAT rate for children's clothing from 23% Up to 5%. Similar solutions also exist in other countries of the European Union. In the UK or Ireland, the rate of tax on children's clothing is 0%. in Luxembourg, these clothes are subject to 3% VAT. Of course, either from you or from the Ministry, I guess, there will be allegations that there is an EU VAT directive, that we are forced that those countries are covered by accession treaties, which gave them the opportunity to levy other VAT on children's clothing, that we are a second-class country, that we are not treated individually, only subject matter. But I say: if we want to mean something in the European Union, let us fight for our interests. If we want to influence what VAT rates can be applied in the European Union, let us fight for it, because that is what Member States want to be subject countries rather than those concerned do. And so, as Kukiz.15, we have prepared for Prime Minister Morawiecki a ready proposal - the ready content - to be submitted and sent to the European Commission, for a special measure enabling the adoption of a lower VAT rate on goods of the type concerned. This is justified by a particularly fatal demographic situation in Poland, I would say, a demographic disaster. The fertility factor, which should be at least 2,1 for generation replacement, is still around or even below 1.4. This means that soon we will be a country of pensioners and there will be no one to work for our pensions, for officials, for Members, because there will simply be no young people. In order to change this, radical steps must be taken, especially with regard to the tax system. The motion we have prepared is on the Prime Minister's desk, ready to sign. Just show that you want to change in Europe, send it to the European Commission and ask for such a special measure. But if for some reason the Prime Minister does not want to apply it, then we have another solution that applies to countries like France. It was loud about the VAT rate on the so-called. e-books, e-books. According to the VAT Directive, these books should be subject to the maximum rate in force in the country concerned, while France, without having to worry about the VAT Directive and showing that it imposes a narrative in Europe, as the first country introduced a reduced rate on e-books, on electronic books. What did the European Commission do? It treated France as a country, as an entity and not as an object: it adapted the European Union Directive to the changes in taxation in France. I don't think we're worse than France, we're not worse than the French. There the notabene fertility factor is already practically at generation replacement level, above 2.0 . We too can show the European Commission... We can force this to convince the European Commission either to take a special measure or to amend the VAT Directive on this issue so that special goods such as children's clothes can be made easier for its own citizens, to act in a truly pro-family, truly pro-demographic way and to reduce this VAT. I myself am a young father, I have many friends, neighbors who have small children. I know how hard it is in these early periods, especially when the first descendant appears, to spend such huge amounts on children's clothes. Children grow out of their clothes very quickly, you have to change these clothes very quickly. Why colleagues who emigrated to Great Britain, e.g. due to lower costs of ZUS and lower other forms of taxation, they can purchase clothes in the UK at a rate of 0% , i.e. cheaper, and the colleagues who decided to stay in Poland in the spirit of patriotism must pay such high taxes? It's an open question to the Ministry. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will change a little bit of its priority, abstracting from success in terms of raising revenue to the VAT budget, and will also address the second important issue - reducing the tax burden for citizens. In addition to tightening the screw, sealing the tax system, the Ministry will be able to come out with open hands to citizens, to families, to children and to say: we will relieve you tax-free, that is possible, we will do it. Therefore, this project, the Kukiz project15, on this issue will be a test for the government, for the Ministry, for the Law and Justice politicians, as long as their approach to family-friendly policies on fiscal issues is sustainable and as far as they are able to change Europe and not just submit to it. I think this will be very crucial for you. Therefore, I would ask you to support this project at first reading, possibly for key comments during the work of the committee, and the Ministry of Finance, too, to take a favourable look at the project and consider these means of dialogue with the European Commission on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u197	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, our discussions are attended by young taxpayers, students of primary school No. 2 from Sieklowka, from Podkarpackie Voivodeship. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz and present the justification for the bill in print No 2451.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to provide a statement of reasons regarding the proposal submitted by the club for a law amending the act on tax on goods and services. The purpose of this Act is to restore VAT rates before 1 January 2011. The government then decided to increase these rates from 22% to 23% and from 7% to 8%. We want it restored just before 1 January 2011. The increase in VAT was actually driven by a crisis across Europe and, in principle, by a global crisis. As there was a concern that we would cross the second warning point, or the second prudential threshold - this is not to exceed 55% As far as debt is concerned, the government has made such a decision. Indeed, this has contributed to a great extent to the fact that Poland did not go down to negative GDP growth during the economic crisis. I can honestly say that probably all citizens who had confidence in the State have them and want to have them, were hoping that this period, which was then stated, i.e. that these increased rates would be in operation until 31 December 2013, were disappointed because the Act of 8 November 2013 amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services extended the period of operation of that Law and those rates were to be maintained until the end of 2016. The temporary change in those tax rates, which were initially to apply for a period of only 2 years, has proved to be a long-term increase in taxes. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that the team that claimed, going to power, in its election campaign, that it would lower taxes, one of the first things she did, was by law of 1 December 2016 that the increased rates were maintained: 23% and 8% VAT by the end of 2018 So it can be said that the electoral promises turned out to be fairy tales and fairy tales quite expensive for Polish society, because it was the Polish society that had to pay these increased VAT rates. Therefore, the Modern thought that a return to these lower rates should be speeded up. We have therefore also considered that we will submit a bill which will introduce these lower rates from 1 July 2018. We thought, given, at least in quotes, that the credibility in the message of Law and Justice, that the budget is perfect, that there is VAT sealing, tax collection, we are at the moment a very rich country, that, if that is so, why wait another six months for Poles to pay higher taxes, it is better that you have the opportunity to fulfil your request, one of your demands, namely to reduce taxes. Today, here in the Parliament, in the debate, we showed that you would be sick if you did not raise at least four taxes for the Polish society within a year and apply these methods over and over again. The second reason why we thought your hypocrisy should be shown is that we have very strong doubts, on a good case, that you would decide to actually reduce these rates from 1 January 2019. We have some doubts about this, because when it comes to spending public money, it really is the world championship. Not only are you giving away, let's say, groups that can handle a good cause without the money, but most of all you spend the money you're supposed to have on your own. There have been numerous examples of the life of some people who use business credit cards. We have often talked about the awards and salaries of your Misiewicz, who work in companies of the State Treasury, and for this you have money. I know that the Minister, Prime Minister Szydło, says you deserve it. It didn't belong to you. For what you do in Poland, you don't deserve anything. You should still be punished financially for dismantleing democracy in Poland. And I hope that you will not only be financially responsible, but will also be held responsible for what you are doing before the Court of State. Before the Court of State, because you deserve it. [[Definitely not because of you. You'll be gone.]] Relax, but society stays and society settles you, and you're gonna cry for it. Now with regard to the actual state and the difference between the current and the proposed legal state, now Article. The Act of 11 March 2014 on VAT on goods and services provides that the increased VAT rates apply between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2018. The proposed law provides for a reduction in the duration of higher VAT rates by six months. They would cease to apply from 1 July 2018. Given the fact that you are very fast in passing laws that destroy the judiciary, the Constitutional Tribunal, and you can do so within 72 hours, and sometimes even 48 hours, we felt that even submitting this project during this period should be enough to adopt this law. In terms of reducing the tax on goods and services, this will translate into lower prices, which will increase the purchasing power of Poles' wages, which will result in higher consumption and prosperity. According to CNA estimates in 2014, the increased VAT cost Polish households from PLN 7.60 per month in the first target group to PLN 35 per month in the higher group. The increased VAT was also the most severe for the least prosperous farms, as consumption expenditure is the biggest expenditure in this social group. Economic impact. The reduction in the rate of duty on goods and services will have a positive economic impact. Increased consumer demand is expected. As far as estimated costs of reduction are concerned, we estimate that this is about PLN 6.2 billion per year. But given these assurances about great financial results, that in 2018 this tax collection is expected to bring an additional PLN 30 billion, I ask where the money is. Since there is this money and you claim that it is, I see no reason why these VAT rates should not be reduced so that the money remains in the pockets of Poles, because they deserve it. Nor is it possible to fail to indicate the things you spend on, because the state of this money, from these direct and indirect taxes, is financing so for a good cause buying voters' votes. The insolence is that you do it with our money. And that's an exceptional insolence. Therefore, the example of the last idea to add PLN 300 to everyone's children's trip, when you don't have a disability, shows that where you have 3 million voters, it is better to give them 300 PLN each, because maybe in the upcoming municipal elections they will vote for you. But if you had the same money to give you 270 grand, it's no longer worth it. Therefore, the electoral calculation is very simple: 3 million voters - they need to be financed, 270 000. - doesn't pay off. And that's what you think. You spend extra money on a propaganda tube, which is public television. More than PLN 1 billion has been allocated for President Kurski to hand out to the right and to the left the helpful journalists who have already gone on such a good cause to the level of Mr Marek Barański, an editor who worked in a state of war. That's pretty much the level that shows public television. And for this public television, we're supposed to be giving money. For public television, which insults us as an opposition, which is a propaganda tube. It's just unfortunate that it's still called public television. This isn't public television. This is the propaganda tube of Law and Justice, and unfortunately the level of journalism that we can observe there at the moment, however, calls for vengeance to heaven. So we think that if you have money for everything, you're bragging that you're doing so well that the failure of previous governments caused financial problems, so share your welfare with society, lower VAT. Be responsible and smart enough. And I wonder how the Law and Justice will vote on our bill. I am afraid that also those laws that are presented today, about reducing the tax on children's clothing, the state will probably throw into the basket, because all the laws that are reported by the opposition, most often end up in a freezer or in a basket. So at least this bill, which is 1%. It will reduce these tax burdens when it comes to VAT, it will certainly be a law that will serve Poles. So I'm very curious about how the Law and Justice Club is going to behave right now. I appeal to everyone to support our bill and vote to reduce VAT rates from 23% to 22% and 8% to 7%. As of 1 July 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u199	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Blazh Parda to provide the reasons for the bill in print 2519.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Kukiz15 project which reduces VAT to 22%. But first, a little history. In 2011, the PO-PSL government amended the VAT Act, temporarily raising it from 7% to 8% and from 22% to 23%. Then the PO-PSL government increased the rates first for 2 years, then extended it for 3 years, so the temporary increase instead of 2 years was 5 years. In practice, the increase in VAT for Poles meant an increase in prices of products and services, so it certainly was not a good solution for the economic crisis, since Poles were to buy more expensive food or any other food, which is often discussed in this Chamber. In addition, revenues to the budget increased by less than 10% at that time. year-to-year, but it was only a one-time situation in 2011. In the following years these influences were even smaller, e.g. in 2013, by several billion. Therefore, the budgetary effect, i.e. saving the budget, proved to be miserable, miserable, or even inverse. We are therefore presenting this bill. The story of this is even longer, because Law and Justice also raised the issue of tax reduction to 7% and to 22%, i.e. it has returned to the issue of its electoral campaign, the withdrawal of this increase, which was introduced by Donald Tusk, but unfortunately, contrary to its promises in 2016, it has increased its own VAT as well as the Civic Platform. As of 2017, it amounts to 23% in proportion and 8%. It is said to be in force until the end of 2018, but that is yet to be seen. In the view of Kukiz,15, in the current budgetary situation, there is no reason for the temporary increase in VAT for 2 years to be further extended for the seventh year already in force, which is why we are calling for it to be repealed and returned to the 2% and 7% VAT rate. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years VAT has been reduced, among others. in Romania, where, as it turned out, this had a positive impact on the situation, precisely in terms of budget revenue. This also contributed to a fall in food prices by 11%. and an increase in sales by 17%. As a result, this reduction did not reduce VAT revenue to the budget, so there is also our call not to be afraid to make such a decision, because it will not necessarily be negative for the budget. So we're predicting that the total cost of reducing VAT to 23% may have virtually no budgetary implications at all. In some way, the grey zone and trade in individual articles and services will be reduced and, on the other hand, it is possible to notice greater activity of businesses operating under lower VAT conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already mentioned, the effect of the introduction of an increased VAT rate by PO-PSL was very short and occurred only in one year, in 2011, i.e. increase by more than PLN 10 billion. Then there was a stagnation of this level, and then, in the following years, even a decline despite the relatively good economic situation and despite the fact that Poland somehow managed to survive and grow. The question is, where did the money come from when they weren't in the budget? Exactly, or maybe they appeared in some mafia cartels, maybe they appeared in VAT carousels, because ladies and gentlemen, raising VAT from 22% to 23% is a great gift for the mafia. For them, profits have increased thanks to one simple law by 5% in the case of tax fraud of 23 percent, i.e. 5%. They gained by doing nothing more than what they did. This led to an increase in the number of people willing to deal with this problem. Moreover, in the case of a lower tax rate, its increase from 7% to 8% We are talking about an increase in profit, a return on fraud of 14%. The ideal situation, i.e. theft, was additionally rewarded with millions and even billions of zlotys. Way to go, y'all. I don't know if you had it included in the election program, but I don't think so, because if you had it included, you wouldn't have done it. To sum up, theft has gained 5%. and 14% Poles lost billions of zlotys. I hope that this thread will be explained in detail by the established VAT committee. Moreover, in that shameful act, you wrote that tax rates could increase even more. Art. Paragraph 146f. 1 in a nutshell reads: if the Poles' debt platform is even more and the public debt exceeds 55% , this VAT will jump to an even higher level, i.e. 24%. If that were not enough, it would be in the same article, but in the mouth. 2 you wrote down that VAT will amount to 25% in 2014. In your own bill you created a whip on Poles who were to pay for your inefficient policy of debt of the country. It was perfidy, insolence, shame on you. Instead of looking for savings, you planned a surprise for us in case you had too much appetite for our money. Do you know why this tax wasn't finally raised to 25%? You might think they might have come to their senses. No, I'm afraid not at all. That's when the consumption of PLN 150 billion from OFE took place. When they wrote the tax bill, they didn't know they were gonna be able to take advantage of this option yet. Only then did it turn out that their needs were too big and the increase in VAT alone was not enough. The impudent act of the Civic Platform expired at the end of 2016 and VAT would return to its original level, i.e. 22% and 7% , but then the law and justice government joined the fight for the title of the largest wallet leech, which prepared its law increasing from January 2017 VAT to 23% and 8%. Annually, this temporary increase in taxes costs every citizen about PLN 270, including infants, kindergarteners and every other person living in Poland. Let us remember that taxes, in particular VAT, pay everyone. If someone is 5 years old and buys a lollipop, they pay VAT if someone buys clothes, they pay VAT if you buy a TV, you pay VAT if you buy a car, an apartment, food, you pay VAT. VAT is everywhere and this tax pays everyone. Let us have this awareness as a society, because sometimes some people think that taxes are paid only by the rich. Here's an example. If you've bought an apartment from a developer for $250,000 in the last seven years. zł, you paid 8% VAT instead of 7% That's the normal rate. Thanks to PO, PIS and PSL, you lost $2.5,000. zł. If you bought a house or an apartment worth $500,000, you lost $5,000. zł. In our view, in the current budgetary situation, there is no justification for the temporary increase in VAT for 2 years, which has already been in force for the seventh year, to be further extended, so as Kukiz15 we propose to reduce taxes and return to 7% And 22%. For Poles, the proposed change will be a tangible advantage. Please support our project and refer it to the finance committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the next young taxpayers listening to our debate, students from Biłgoraj primary schools. Thank you so much for holding on to our country. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to be particularly concerned with these proposals in Mr Zagłosz's style, i.e. offering the Netherlands when nothing can be decided for itself. This had to be done much earlier, and there were opportunities, at least as far as the Civic Platform is concerned. It is difficult, I would say, to take seriously the comments on tax reductions by the Modern Group, whose knowledge of market knowledge seems to be such as the knowledge of Mr Piotr Misja, who wondered whether a government official could pay with a credit card for drugs. As far as your calculations are concerned, this is PLN 6.2 billion, I am also afraid that according to my calculations there are about 9 billion or more. Looks like it's a little bit as counted as your polling bill, so let's just give it... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, yes, sir... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But, Mr President, to the point.]] ...calm down, calm down, you've already shown your class, Mr. Meysztowicz. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Speaks the chief economist of the SKOKs, who has trained the state budget for 5 billion PLN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u203	Mrs Hennig-Kloska, please stop yelling at the benches. [[Applause]] If you have time, you'll be standing on the stand and you'll tell me what you have to say. Maybe you're an MP. then shout it out, and now silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u204	Mrs. Member! Don't talk to anyone, because it's a responsibility. You are not only responsible to the ethics committee for what you have said, but you can also bear legal responsibility. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes...]] Ladies and gentlemen, while continuing, I would like to say to you that the last time the Civic Platform and PSL dealt with VAT, the Polish state budget for more than PLN 260 billion was robbed, so I understand that you are expressing great concern today about how the tax will be applied to drynuts, nutmeg, citrus fruits, etc. In my view, however, it seems that the voters clearly pointed out that it would be good for the Civic Platform not to reform, no longer to deal with taxes, because it ends with either an increase in the rate as it was in 2011 or this epochary statement by Minister Rostowski that there is no money and there will be no money. Although these proposals would undoubtedly result in reductions in tax revenue of PLN 6.3 billion and PLN 1.6 billion, I believe that they are significantly understated. It would be more tax-depleting, but you might ask, where is the point, where is the logic, because you say that on the one hand you want to reduce tax revenue, and on the other hand you demand that you pay 500 PLN per child. If you count it, it would turn out to be about 20 billion PLN more. You Members, as a Modern Member, also advocated that you give 500 zlotys of live cash to all people with disabilities. I would like to say that if you counted not the 270 000, only about 1 million people, more than 1 million people, who should then be covered by this, because you should not differentiate these problems, it would cost about 9 billion PLN. So the state would like to reduce tax revenue somewhere within the range of PLN 9 and 10 billion, but spend 29 billion more... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Just don't steal.]] ...to add more to the doctors' residents. Ladies and gentlemen, this simply indicates your incompetence. Thank God you can't deal with these taxes right now, because the bills don't add up. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform increased the tax rate in 2011 and in 2013 there was already a significant drop in VAT revenues to PLN 113 billion, but there was also a significant increase in VAT refunds to almost PLN 70 billion. So you can see how this scale of raking grew, you can say, this VAT crime, raking this income. If you think in your naivety that the tax rate is reduced from 23% to 22% or from 8% to 5% It would bring about a substantial reduction in the prices of articles, and you are in a fundamental error. It's empirically numbered. A small, 1% reduction would rather bring profits, an additional bonus for foreign trading networks, please, not for Polish families. I would also like to remind you that these are representatives of the Civic Platform, Mr Grupiński, Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who said, raising VAT to 23%, that the increase will be the least severe for people. Prime Minister Tusk even said that a secure policy would make us increase our state income. Great, that's what we're trying to do by sealing the tax system. Prime Minister Donald Tusk said this: VAT increase to 8% and 23% will mean for the Polish family a burden of several pennies per day. So what are you guys digging for, like, a dozen pennies a day? The Poles will forgive you, the more the wages rise by about 7%. , and this is probably not the end, it will be felt in budgets, in wallets of Poles. Prime Minister Tusk also said he's gonna fire anybody in his government who's gonna propose a tax raise, right? Ladies and gentlemen, let me put it this way: If you don't know what port you're going to, no winds are going to help. Thank you very much. And I wanted it on the basis of art. 39 apply for rejection of all these four projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u205	Mrs Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! I hope you'll charge me one minute for this commotion that has made our time wasted by Mr Szewczak's statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Opposite clubs are even obliged to propose a reduction in tax rates and I am not surprised that such proposals have many influences. Paradoxically, due to good tax collection, good governance, the Law and Justice Government encourages us to apply for tax reduction and increased expenditure. This policy, which we have been pursuing since the beginning of the United Right, proves that such proposals may appear on the opposition side. We also show that it is possible to finance a number of social expenditures, such as the 500+ family, the reduction of the retirement age, this year's school trips, and at the same time to have a very good tax policy, but we must take into account as responsible politicians the fact that the state budget is still a budget, not with a surplus, but with a deficit. Such an approach that, since taxes go well, it is necessary to ensure that this deficit grows, is irresponsible, wrong. Already in the first rule of law and justice, in 2005-2007, we have proved that we are capable of reducing taxes. I would remind you that this concerned PIT rates. During the current governments, we are gradually introducing an increase in the tax-free amount. We are introducing what the Prime Minister said in April, a significant reduction in the rates of the Social Security Office for micro-entrepreneurs. It is not possible to introduce new social programmes, increase spending on disabled people and pensioners and pay in the budgetary sphere and at the same time reduce tax revenues. These are arguments of a general budget nature, but very important in the discussion that we are currently discussing around VAT. I would like to say, in particular, with regard to the project that Kukiz has notified15 concerning the VAT rates for clothing, infant clothing accessories and children's shoes, that the adoption of this law would lead to a breach of Union law and the Court's judgment in Luxembourg on the rates of that tax and would expose us to another conflict with the European Commission. The government, as I know, is working to reform the VAT system as part of an agreement with other Member States of the Union. Poland calls for a new proposal in the Annex to the VAT Directive on goods for children to be included in the draft legislative proposal. On the other hand, these negotiations would not be effective or possible if we brought about a conflict again by pushing a law unilaterally reducing this rate. Therefore, although this is not popular and especially not populist, we cannot accept the proposals which the opposing clubs have made regarding the rates of duty on goods and services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u207	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u208	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems that this debate is about draft laws that have been tabled by Members, but in fact this debate is about how much truth is in your propaganda about VAT collection, how much truth is in your propaganda about sealing the VAT system. That's what this debate is about. Because if what we've been mamming for two and a half years were true, you wouldn't have a problem voting these projects out. You wouldn't have any problem with the nine billion that my previous speaker from the PiS was talking about. It is also interesting that he is worried about 9 billion, but he no longer cares about 6 billion, which were paid out of the Banking Guarantee Fund because they were paid to SKOKs. [[Applause]] That's the PiS-provoking hypocrisy. He is concerned about the finances of political parties, but he is not concerned about how much his party spends on the protection of the President, he is not concerned that public money is actually financed by the President's private life. [[Applause]] You're worried that we can't decide tonight, says it's okay that we don't decide, because if we could decide on taxes, that would be wrong. However, I would like to say to you: More speeches like yours just now - you are not in the room right now - more arrogant speeches, we will decide sooner than you think. [[Applause]] [[Dreams.]] This debate, as I said, is about how it really is with VAT, because there is this continuing propaganda festival that tells us that the gap has been reduced, that now VAT collection is so high, but you are confusing one basic thing. What else are higher VAT receipts to the state budget, and what else is the gap. Higher influences consist of, among others, that is, a gap that is among others. Also criminal activity, but this is among others. The higher inflation you've caused. In the last two years of the Civic Platform's rule, I'll remind you, there's been a deflation. Higher inflation is also a higher revenue from VAT to the budget, which is also a higher consumption that we are currently dealing with. You're talking about the fight against VAT fraud, the way you're chasing VAT criminals. Is it part of the prosecution of VAT crimes that is... I'm just gonna quote you the press title from a year and a half ago, and I think you know him: Kaczyński stood up for a convicted VAT extortion. Is it in the fight against VAT fraud and VAT criminals? Chairman Kaczyński, President of your party. As a result, he was sentenced to VAT extortion, which was due to be released from prison only in February next year, and was released on 10 October 2017. I understand that this is how you fight VAT fraud, and this is how you seal the VAT system. You are constantly using lies in the VAT debate. Such an outstanding example is the year 2016, in which for 11 months you delayed the return of VAT to businesses in order to return it in December. But for 11 months you said that there were extraordinary high VAT receipts, so that in December it would actually be zeroed out and in December pay back in part the due VAT, which could be paid in January, in order to improve the results for 2017 and again in 2017 to have propaganda about how excellent it all looks like with VAT collection. One of the propagandists said that a lie repeated many times becomes true, but it's not true. Lying is always a lie, and truth is always true, even though you are also using it in this debate, also in the debate on public finances. Less harmful are your stories about Poland getting up from its knees, that it has a great position in the European Union, that it counts on the international stage, that it builds partnership. It's less harmful. Of course, it is annoying, infantile, but less harmful than gmeraning in public finances, because it actually concerns the life of an average citizen or the life of an average Pole. The previous speaker spoke, quoted Donald Tusk's statements. I'm the one who's gonna return the other quotes, and that's so recent. Minister Kowalczyk, 5 November 2015, PiS already ruled: We are not going to change anything. Since 2017, it has already been registered in the Act automatic reduction rates and this is what we are sticking to for now. Minister Kowalczyk just after PiS took power. But little of this, it was 2017, is mentioned about 2017. Prime Minister Szydło, commentary from January 2017: If everything is going to go according to the plan we have, I think we can have good news for Polish taxpayers already in 2018. This is also a reduction in VAT rates. So far it's 2018, it's almost half this year, we can't hear anything about a reduction. You're mocking me. You say it's $9 billion and there's no money at all for it. You say you've sealed the system in an extraordinary way. But what was that sealing thing like? Recent data show that if we are dealing with sealing, in 3/4, about 3/4, this is due to legislative solutions. You are also admitting that you are taking advantage of the legislative solutions that have been introduced during the term of office of the PO-PSL governments. But how did we decide that in the plenary room? When we voted, you didn't support these changes. Then you didn't fight the VAT gap, then you didn't fight the extortion when we introduced the reversed VAT. At the time, you did not support these solutions. Today, when you have problems, you are looking for a way out of these problems, of course, you invented a committee of inquiry to treat this issue in a propaganda manner. But when we say: okay, let's talk about what it looks like with VAT sealing, but also about the PiS governments, about 2016, about 2017, when some data say that it could have been between 70 and 90 billion VAT gaps, you don't want to talk about it anymore. You only use it for propaganda purposes. But like I said, a lie will always be a lie, and the truth will be the truth. So that there is no money for - as we hear - lower VAT, there is no money for raising the tax-free amount, there is no money for carers of disabled people, but for prizes there was money. It's a bit of urban politics - the government feeds on itself. Urban was right, and in your case it was indeed seen in the context of the prizes. As I said, this debate is actually about how VAT is collected in Poland, what sealing looks like. You can see that this is only your propaganda, because if it weren't your propaganda, you would have done what you were just talking about, what Minister Kowalczyk was talking about, and what Prime Minister Beata Szydło was talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u210	Thank you, Marshal. Law and Justice since the beginning of government has been practicing admirable equilibricism, so that by introducing further new burdens, they may not be called a tax. May I remind you: solidarity tribute, emission fee, RES fee, transitional fee, higher excise duty on used cars, recycling fee, water collection fees, capacity charge, abolition of the ZUS contribution limit, freezing of PIT thresholds in the case of wage inflation, bank tax, maintenance of increased VAT. Surely it is a very uncomfortable debate for you today because we are talking about a tax reduction, and you have consistently increased taxes for more than two years. But I need to remind you of a quote from the then Minister of Finance, November 2017. At the time the finance minister Mateusz Morawiecki said: I do not plan any new taxes. We lower taxes. So we're waiting for these reductions. We are waiting for you to start talking about how this VAT can be reduced, because so far we hear that already at first reading a law and justice representative wants to reject these projects. I would like to ask you if the VAT reduction was one of your promised flagship promises. Isn't it in your election program that there was a record - and I quote - that the obvious mistake of the PO-PSL coalition was to believe that raising VAT rates to 23%, 15% and 8% will result in additional revenue to the budget, will help to reduce the budget gap and that in order to ensure an increase in budget revenue, it is necessary to return to lower VAT rates? I ask again: If we are discussing this today, if there are concrete proposals on the table and if this is on your electoral agenda, why do you want to reject it at first reading? The Civic Platform proposes today primarily to harmonise the VAT rate for food, because it causes a lot of problems, lots of questions. In 2016, 1193 times in their requests for individual interpretations about VAT rates for food products, I understand that this is not what makes you think either. It is worth mentioning in this debate that Poland was ranked 51st in terms of the complexity of the tax system in the last edition of the Paying Taxes report, falling by four positions compared to the previous year. In the light of such statistics, no one can deny that the tax system in Poland is complicated, incomprehensible, often internally contradictory, imprecise, but VAT is at the forefront of this issue, which causes the most problems. In conclusion, I will repeat what has already been said today. Very good economics, as you say, tax sealing - and you are based on reports from the Ministry of Finance - which the Ministry likes to boast about, which bring tangible effects on the budget, so there is no reason to maintain the rate of VAT which is actually permanently rooted and which has been introduced on an ad hoc basis. That is why we are once again appealing for leaning over these projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the club's position regarding these, unfortunately, combined four draft laws. While I agree that the two are very similar, i.e. the Modern project or the Kukiz project 15, it is about returning to the old VAT rate, but the other two should not be combined if we wanted to process them, but you combined them into one block so that it would be easier to reject them in a moment, because we guess it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, projects, among others. The Kukiz15 project was notified as part of Monday of freedom, I already spoke from the Parliamentary Speaker, which concerns this project. These are laws that give freedom and, above all, simplify citizens' rights and lives. On the other hand, I do not know, I am not convinced that you will understand what is being said in these projects, because when we are talking here, the opposition, about tax reductions, tax on children's clothing, on footwear, when we are talking about reducing VAT from 23% to 22%, you may not understand this for a simple reason. You haven't raised taxes or created new ones in over two years. As my previous speaker, Mrs Golbik, has said, you are introducing new charges: an audiovisual fee, a water levy, a rainwater levy and melting snow, a solidarity fee, an issue fee or a recycling fee. You don't raise taxes, so maybe you actually bow to my colleagues, maybe we should verify the name of this bill and name it, buddy, something different. We're talking about a reduction in the tax on clothes, and maybe we should talk about a reduction in the charge of purchasing these clothes, and maybe then you'll understand better. What's my point? Ladies and gentlemen, a tax reduction, that is a fact, it will cause economic growth, it will increase consumption, and that is what Laffer's curve is saying, and I think that this is something that the country should refer to. As I was talking about probably a good change in the name of our law, i.e. a good change of our bill, we should do so, and we should also change one more name of a very important law, that's about 500+. Ladies and gentlemen! This shouldn't be called 500+, because you young parents don't give 500+, but you actually give 385 zlotys. The 500+ fee is supposed to increase the desire to have children, make it easier to have children at first, right? We spend on baby food, clothes, shoes, toys. You give people 500 zlotys, of course earlier by pulling 600 zlotys out of their pockets, but in fact, like all these products you will tax 23% of tax They have 385 zlotys left because in taxes, when they buy these products, at once 115 zlotys return to the state budget. So I suggest you change the name to 385+. If you voted, it would be your success. The idea may be Kukiz15, but success would be a ruling party, because it would pass by your vote. If we were to reduce the taxation of these children's clothes to 5%, then this percentage would be PLN 25 and we could change the name of the law from 500+ to PLN 475+. Ladies and gentlemen! An effective pro-family demographic policy is precisely that it makes it easier for parents to have children. Now we're talking about how we can't do this. Why can't we do it? United Kingdom, Ireland 0% , Luxembourg - 3%. I am very surprised at what Mrs Bubula said, that this is unfortunately a violation of the law, a violation of EU directives. Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union we are all equal, and yet we are afraid. We offered, I offered from the Parliamentary Speaker, a reduction in the tax on e-books. And then you said it was against EU rules. You turned it down because you were scared. And now France has done so and the European Union is taking the example from France. We propose a reduction in the tax on clothes for children, and you are once again demonstrating the role of Poland in the European Union. This is the subject matter rather than the subject matter. It's either we're all equal or we're not. How do we lower the tax to 5%? - as my colleague said, they are ready to submit documents so that our Prime Minister can intervene in the international arena - that maybe other countries will do the same and will eventually be comfortable. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a fertility factor of 1.4 calls for vengeance to heaven. You are in power for nearly 3 years or, as anyone prefers, over 2 years and you have done nothing about it, because 500+ does not really cause - and we will verify this - growth, dynamic growth of this childhood. As my colleague said, we are becoming a country of increasingly old people and for our pensions in fact there will be no one to work in a moment. That is why I appeal to you from this point of view not to reject this law, at least not at first reading, to work on it in committee, to adhere more to those ideas that will be your success, and ours will be just ideas. You can still change it, but it can't be that some people submit projects in November or January, and after six months we consider them in the plenary room. And I'm sure you'll reject it today. I therefore call for these two draft laws to be supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, we are discussing four projects, but we are focusing on two of the most crucial projects, namely the VAT reduction project from 23% to 22% and from 8% to 7%. and an equally important project to reduce the VAT rate for children's articles, mainly for children's clothing and children's shoes. I would like to refer only to the behaviour and to the votes of Members of the governing option, but I would also like to congratulate this speaker on the real summits of hypocrisy among the Members of the Civic Platform who are speaking on a matter in which they themselves are guilty. Because it was you, the state, who raised this tax, arguing, of course, that it was a need for a moment, for 3 years, then it was extended, and the PiS government took advantage of this gift you offered them, and extended this VAT increase for the following years. Why do I say it's hypocrisy and on the one hand and on the other? First of all, as you said in your election campaign, you were going to reduce VAT. Prime Minister Szydło after taking up office and, as I recall, even in her exposé she spoke about the need to return to the rates 22% and 7% . Little was said by Minister Kowalczyk in 2016 in December to argue that, of course, we would return to this rate. You, Minister, in one of the Catholic media also argued that the economic situation is so good, the VAT sealing is so good that we will be able to return calmly to 22% rates and 7%. Unfortunately, as we know, optics change just after we have taken power, as we have had evidence many times in cases such as cases involving political offices and taxes. As you can see, the PiS state behaved in the same way. Your optics have changed, and this VAT reduction is no longer a key issue. Second thing, a VAT reduction on children's clothes. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it that countries such as the United Kingdom or Ireland, in which I have spent 7 years of my life, can apply the zero rate for clothing and children's shoes, arguing this pro-family, pro-development program, not in the way that Law and Justice do? You take your parents' money as VAT, and then you fake it, of course, and you give it back as 500+. But of course this is the tribute you give and boast about. I understand the government's redistribution function, but this is not the way. If you, ladies and gentlemen, left their tax in your pockets, a similar discussion took place in the case of people with disabilities - they would know very well what to do with it. And it seems to me that there would be no special need to create further social programmes that consume another 10, 15, 20% of them. I will not ask an additional question in a block of questions, but, Minister, I would like to ask you one question because Kukiz15 last year prepared a letter to the European Commission on the application of a special measure and on the possibility of exempting Poland from VAT on children's clothing and clothing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was presented at the press conference by Marshal Stanisław Tyszka. And I would like to ask the Minister from this point on: Is it true - do I have good information about this - that at the time you were a member of the Republican Foundation, you also prepared such a proposal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I think you are well aware that the ultimate tax payer, every tax, and especially VAT, is always a citizen. We pay VAT every day by shopping daily or using different types of services. According to estimates of data introduced during the crisis, the increase in VAT cost each Polish family up to PLN 35 per month, which gives about PLN 420 per year. This tax is always the most severe for families of the poor, because it simply weighs the most in the wallet of these families. Let us recall that when introducing this higher VAT rate, it was justified that there was a crisis, a global economic crisis which was caused by the global crisis of financial institutions, and this is a temporary solution which was intended to reduce the increase in government debt. The crisis ended a long time ago. For years we have heard from representatives of the Government of Law and Justice and various economists, we also see in statistics that the world's, European and Polish economy is doing well. This is the perfect time to return to lower tax rates. As it turned out, the higher VAT rates introduced neither limited the state's debt nor were temporary, because after one government, the other government simply extended it. Unfortunately, there was no meaningful distribution, no use was made of revenue, additional revenue to the budget, which thanks to these increased rates appeared. The waste of public money by the current government administration is already so great that we still cannot accept it, and citizens do not have the slightest desire to put any further taxes on it. They do not wish to finance from their money ill-considered reforms, personnel expenses for checks and awards to ministers of this government, as well as the entire dawn of the epiphany. They do not want to spend on unjustified expenses, e.g. Credit cards of employees of the Ministry of National Defence or propaganda in public media. Simplifying and reducing taxes is one of the main demands with which the Modern came to the Sejm. We assume that a simple and flat tax system is not only convenient for citizens, but also uncomfortable for all tax offenders. Single stakes are the lack of gaps and the possibility of composing. The lack of complex and complex legislation means less doubt for taxpayers and less work for tax firms, tax advisers or accountants. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the rule of law and justice, you have come from a completely different assumption. Instead of cutting your doubts, closing legal gaps, simplifying the law, you're going in a completely different way. In fact, since 2.5 years we have seen that more and more work has been done by tax advisors, accountants, and an ordinary, gray citizen only spends more and more money on any tax advice. For 2.5 years, the Law and Justice Government has chosen the path of high taxes, complex rules, complex procedures and various rates. Since a good year we have heard constantly that the tax system has been effectively sealed, and the rise in revenue to the state budget is not due to economic growth, it is not due to the changes made to the law by which certain tax transfers were made, not to the creative activity of the Minister of Finance, which shifted the revenue between 2016 and 2017, not to the interruption of tax reimbursement for taxpayers, but to the sealing of the tax system. Unfortunately, 2.5 years was not enough to bring back VAT rates from 23 to 22% and from 8 to 7%. Perhaps because the government is simply too wasteful, or because the system has not been permanently and effectively sealed. This is the kind of conclusion that makes an observation of what is happening in the first quarter of this year. If last year the government effectively sealed the tax system, we should feel the effects over the years, and further closing the tax gap with economic growth would simply give higher revenue to the budget also in subsequent periods and not just in 2017. However, what we have seen since the beginning of this year contradicts the theory that the system has been permanently and effectively sealed. Data for the first quarter of this year on VAT receipts do not confirm any radical breakthrough in this respect, as in the first quarter of 2018, VAT increased by only 1.6%. , and an increase in retail sales by 8.1. What does that mean? If someone doesn't know what it means, then I'll say it straight: it just means that the VAT gap is expanding back. And if this trend continues throughout the current year, it will mean that any government treatment carried out in 2018 did not produce any lasting effects other than oppressing taxpayers and draining citizens' wallets. And the fact that the Government of Law and Justice will go down as a government that introduces the most taxes, new charges, danin, whatever you call it, is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. This is a government that can't glue the state budget together without introducing four taxes a year. The number of taxes introduced by this government is already very long. Minister! The request to all representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as to the Prime Minister, who has been Minister of Finance for 2 years: stop lying to Poles about not introducing new taxes, that you are not draining their wallets, because all these taxes, all these taxes, all these contributions, as I said, whatever you call them, are pulling billions out of taxpayers' pockets. You can't give and then take, and that's what you do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Of course, the Modern Club is in favour of handing over all four of these draft laws for further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u217	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the change in rates from 23% to 22%, from 8% to 7%, is nothing more than a return to normal, because the "Tax on Goods and Services" Act calls it. The basic rate and the reduced rate. Law and Justice already announced a reduction in these rates during the elections. However, so far nothing has happened in this regard, hence the draft law of the Poselski Club which reduces these rates, and in principle returns to those rates, which are in the Act on VAT on goods and services, from 1 July 2018. Here Mr PiS Szewczak said that supposedly the VAT gap for the last 8 years of the Platform's governments is PLN 263 billion. Minister, what is the VAT gap under the rule of law and justice? 2016 - various publications show that this gap has increased and amounted to 2.9% GDP. GDP amounted to PLN 1850 million, so the VAT-owska gap for 2016 is PLN 53 billion. Indeed, there was a sealing in 2017, but it is only about 10 billion, so the VAT-owska gap for 2017 is still about 40 billion PLN. So the total VAT gap for two years of your governments is PLN 100 billion. Where's the money? Minister, all you have to do is not steal, and it would be for all actions, including for the disabled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for allowances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u219	Thank you, sir. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the parliamentary projects with a uniform title: on the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services, print Nos 2418, 2433, 2451 and 2519. I would very much like not to depart from the fundamental subject we are debating. The amendments proposed by Members in the print project 2418 concern the harmonisation of VAT rates up to 5% both for all food at a rate of 7% and by the end of December for 8% and for food at a rate of 22% , and by the end of December - a rate of 23%. The project concerns a large product group. Here are fruits, spices, onions, seedlings, starch and starch products, bread, confectionery and cakes, biscuits, biscuits, and this group of 23 percent chocolate, coffee, tea. We share with the applicants the view that the harmonisation of VAT rates greatly simplifies the tax system, because there will be no different rates, limits the so-called. systemic gaps, which will reduce abuse, and of course protect the poorest. The project applicants state that the costs for the budget resulting from this change will amount to around PLN 1.5 billion per year. The draft law has been approved by the NSZZ National Commission Bureau, which stresses and recognises the need to simplify the tax system for entrepreneurs. The trade unionists also point out that, in an era of sustainable economic growth, the reduction of VAT should be a priority in the fiscal action of the State. Similarly, the Association of Employers of the Business Centre Club made a positive assessment of this project, stressing that there will be a reduction in costs for small and medium-sized enterprises resulting from this burdensome, proper classification of goods due to VAT rates. This was discussed very carefully by the project's representative. Unfortunately, with critical attention, the first Deputy Attorney General spoke. He argued that this created a field for abuse and that a reduction in influence would reduce the security of the state. The Sejm Analysis Office draws attention here to the article. Paragraph 98. 3 of the VAT Directive, there is an annex III, that this is not entirely in line with this. Therefore, we believe that the project deserves further legislative work in Parliament, only an attempt must be made to establish this and to bring this project into line with the... [[Member, it was inconsistent.]] ...the EU VAT Directive. The next draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, i.e. printing No 2433, concerns the reduction of the rate on clothing, clothing accessories for babies and children's footwear from the current 23% Up to 5%. The current rate, let me remind you, was introduced on 1 January 2012 following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the Union. The Court found that the reduced rate of failure to fulfil obligations under Annex III of the VAT Directive. The projecters point out that EU law in this respect is not uniform, that Ireland and the United Kingdom, already said this today by the rapporteur on behalf of the applicants, retain a zero rate, and in Luxembourg it amounts to 3% for these articles. The reduction of these rates, which is related to children, i.e. for children's or children's clothing, is an important instrument for helping families with lower incomes or multi-children's families. If the Law and Justice had been positive about this, it would have been another element of pro-family policy for them - although today we have heard something completely different here. However, if the European Commission wishes to avoid negative terms relating to non-compliance with Union law, it is necessary and necessary, as the applicants propose, to request the Minister of Finance to grant the so-called "European Commission." a special measure to reduce VAT on products for children. We are also in favour of this project, and we are in favour of bringing it back to work. Two further draft laws amending the law on value added tax, prints Nos 2451 and 2519 concern essentially the same subject matter, namely to reduce the duration of the increased rate from 7% to 8%. and from 22% to 23%. These rates were introduced in November 2010 and were in force from 1 January 2011 as a temporary solution at the time of the global economic crisis. Unfortunately, these taxes have also been maintained for the present time, a good time and stable economic situation, and are valid until the end of this year, i.e. 31 December 2018. Draft Print Act No 2451 proposes to reduce the duration of the increased VAT rates by six months and sets a new deadline until 30 June 2018. On the other hand, the draft Print Act No 2519 proposes that the reduction in rates should take place within 3 months of the date of publication of this draft. The club, of course. supports both projects and is in favour of their further work, but bearing in mind that these two projects are mutually exclusive, so if they were to go first, there would be no other justification. In conclusion, I would like to say that all four projects in our assessment deserve attention and support. The reduction of VAT, the higher one, for food and clothing - whether shortening the deadline, that is clear - generally simplifies the whole tax system, reduces systemic gaps, reduces abuse and, of course, protects the poorest. I would also like to say another word about Mr Szewczak's speech on these projects. I think it only reflects the culture of the ruling group, and I don't think it deserves any polemics at the level of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u221	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, from the Free and Solidarnia Circle, presented the position of the Circle in writing - also in support of the process of all these projects. [[Of course.]] Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Time for the question - two minutes. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u222	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The tax system in Poland is complicated, confusing and often incomprehensible, and the best example is VAT on groceries. There are many examples of the fact that similar articles are taxed at different rates. I don't know if you know this, but the tax on peach is 5%. and for bananas - 8% , for potato chips - 8% and for corn chips - 23% , on mustard sauce - 8% And for mustard, 23%. Why is mustard more expensive? One of the tax authorities said it was more expensive because it was healthier. It's just absurd, and with these absurdities, we have to stop. That is why we have prepared a bill that balances and reduces the VAT rate for all food to 5%. The budget isn't going to lose much, because it's just 0.5%. revenue, but entrepreneurs will benefit from it, because interpretation problems will disappear, and most of all consumers, because many articles will pay just less for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u223	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be commended to Marshal Kuchciński that on the agenda he gathered these four drafts of the amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services, popularly: VAT, because it helped to understand Poles and it came to them that the opposition had proposals, like an ordinary citizen, every citizen can participate in economic growth. So that thank you to the marshal, I know it was unintentional. And now: the way a representative of the PiS club mocked these projects shows only what arrogance of power is. He especially cared about the hot dog mentioned. I understand that the hot dog party is no longer eating. And now, the real five of Morawiecki is what we see, and that's a plus five, on the fuel price panels at the gas stations. It's true that 60% fuel prices are excise duties and VAT, including VAT, are calculated in such a way that excise duties, i.e. tax, are the basis. So there are ways to relieve Poles. I put the question to both the applicants and the Minister: Is it true that increased revenues from fuel taxation in its entirety would now be covered by VAT losses resulting from four proposed projects? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u225	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his election campaign, the PiS promised to lower taxes, not raise taxes. This law, which has been introduced by the Modern Act, is that we want to reduce VAT from 23% to 22% and from 8% to 7%. Minister! Will the government and members of the PiS support this bill? Will Poles be able to enjoy reduced VAT, and thus the reduced price of all products? As I said at the beginning: The PiS was supposed to lower, but as we know from experience, the PiS only increases taxes. He increased the bank tax, the trade tax, the progressive rent tax on apartments. There is excise duty for new goods, increase of the Social Security Office for self-employed, recycling fee, minimum tax on commercial property, elimination of the upper threshold of the contributions of the Social Security Office, issue fee, third tax threshold, and today's project will certainly be rejected and the VAT rates will be maintained 23% and 8%. This is another project we're talking about today. This morning we had a debate about fuel prices because you want to increase the price of fuel by 10 gr. Dear Members of the PiS! Dear Council of Ministers! If you hadn't spent your money on prizes, on Rydzyk, on Misiewicz and you hadn't crashed in state limousines all the time, there would have been money and you could certainly have reduced VAT. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u227	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm really impressed with the interest of the Law and Justice Club in this issue. You can see how much they are interested in a case that affects each of us, every taxpayer, every citizen who has to pay VAT every day, and the lower the VAT, the more money he has left in his pocket. [[Applause]] I am very pleased that you are Mrs Tomaszewska... [[Voice from the room: He's the only one.]] ...who very often leans over the fate of the victims, but also the poorest, and I hope that I can count on the Member to support our VAT reduction law. I have a question to the Minister: If Law and Justice reject the Modern Project for reducing these rates from 1 July, will the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Finance, submit a proposal and submit a law on extending the higher rates for 2019 this year? Since I have quite limited confidence in the statements of the Law and Justice representatives, who have said many times that they will only lower taxes, and it turns out that they only increase them, I ask the Minister to present it to me in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u229	You're welcome. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u230	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Throughout the 2015 campaign, Law and Justice promised Poles that they would not raise taxes, that there would be no new taxes, little that - taxes would be reduced. So? It turned out quite quickly that it was not true, because immediately, as soon as you could, you raised VAT from 22% to 23% and from 7% to 8%. You didn't keep the stakes. You just raised them. You passed a bill that sanctioned it, and you lied to the Poles about it. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're giving you another chance to make up for these promises. We're giving you another chance to get out of those promises with your face. We present very good laws on VAT reduction, and Law and Justice promised this in the election campaign. Now, Prime Minister Morawiecki, please come here, stand on the platform, look the Poles in the face and tell them that these rates will be reduced, that you will accept this bill. This is the last moment for the face you show to Poles to be the face that tells the truth, which tells the truth and realizes the promises that were made earlier. If not, if you reject our draft laws, if you keep VAT at the current level, then your words will simply mean one thing: that you lied to Poles. So that we are waiting for these laws to be adopted and taxes reduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern. Is it? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It should be said, as a mantra, that the tax on goods and services is a consumer tax. This tax we all pay - it is included in every purchase and in every service we purchase, so it is very important because of the costs we incur in everyday life. But this tax is also important for entrepreneurs, because the degree of complexity of this tax unfortunately has a very negative impact on the development of Polish enterprises, the development of Polish entrepreneurship. This is also the case with the operation of the Ministry of Finance, which has an impact here and is very often benefiting from this influence, among others. by reducing the direct refund of the excess tax charged over due. Hence my question. Minister, what is the extent of the actual limitation on the refund of the excess tax over due? The second question concerns the so-called. direct reimbursement. To what extent is the Polish State indebted to entrepreneurs, so to what extent is the excess tax charged over due to be carried over to the following months? How does this develop in individual months? I understand that this data is detailed and the Minister may not be prepared to answer these questions today. Therefore, I would like to ask for a reply, data for 2016, 2017 and individual months of 2018, in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u233	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u234	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have proposals for four laws. I will refer to them in the order in which they were presented. The first law deals with the far-reaching simplification of the so-called. matrices of VAT rates in the field of food. It is a project that actually leads to a reduction in bureaucracy, to facilitation for entrepreneurs, as well as for administrations and courts, and in principle fits into the answer to those problems that are obvious and present in our financial law system. Of course, I am talking about the complexity of the tax system in Poland. All this is true, but I would like to remind you shyly that the current state of legislation, for example with regard to the VAT rates on food, is the result of legislation carried out in 2010 and 2011 by the then Ministry of Finance led by Minister Rostowski. From the beginning it was indicated that this change, the transition from one older PKWiU to a newer one, could be used for this simplification. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In those years, this system was deeply complicated. In some areas it was necessary to withdraw quickly from these regulations, after a few months it had to be updated - here mentioned by Members of the Civic Platform cookies, for which a 14-day shelf life date was launched, and then, after a turbulent discussion, even protests, it had to be switched to 45-day ones. We have this condition programmed consciously, because all the arguments that have been made in this Chamber today concerning the complications of this system were present in that discussion. I remember that exactly, I had the opportunity to participate in those works as an expert for our foundation. On the other hand, the basic argument regarding the simplification of the system, which we, of course, recognise - of our work in the Ministry in a moment - must also be assessed in terms of the financial outcome of these requests. Here our calculations actually differ from the proposals contained in the justification for this amendment. We see a loss of budget revenue of PLN 3.7 billion per year. At this moment, in this budgetary situation, in this macroeconomic situation, under these external conditions: the expenditure rule, the Treaty obligations and EU law do not have the full scope to implement this request. That's the first thing. Second thing. As a financial resort, we are also working on simplification in this area, but our proposals, although they are moving towards, as I say, a significant simplification of this matrix, do not cause such a significant damage to budgetary revenue, which is an expression of responsibility for the sustainability of public finances, for the budget. This work is ongoing and I hope that it will soon be submitted for consultation. Of course, there are other very important aspects. During the debate, there were allegations of the amount of tax interpretation resulting from this complication in the VAT rate system. We agree with all of this, of course, and we are building a new way of guaranteeing taxpayers tax security related to the allocation of VAT rates to their goods, to their products, and it seems to us that these changes that we are planning will respond to these major problems of business without harming consumers. As I said, the present state of complexity, today's absurdities related to mustard, Dijon sauce or the amount of VAT rates present in the hot dog are the direct consequence of the lack of bold movements at that time, i.e. in 2010, when, in fact, due to the need to change the PKWiU, all the changes that we are working so hard on today in the resort could be made. So that the proposal, as it is written, is from the perspective of the finance department at this point impossible because of the responsibility for the state of public finances, although the direction of simplification is not so much the right direction as necessary, speaking of the whole reform of our tax system. Turning to the issue of children's clothing, I would like to begin by answering the question which was addressed to me personally. Yes, I had the pleasure to co-create the proposal for a derogation or a revision of the directive, and for that time it was the only form that gave us the legal right to apply this reduced rate to such products - let's call it - prodemographic clothing type and children's shoes. That proposal was rejected as an embarrassing proposal, as a frivolous proposal and, unfortunately, it was not realized at the level of Poland's application for such preferences in the VAT Directive. A lot has changed since then. We have been actively involved in the European Commission's work on a comprehensive change of VAT rates in the VAT Directive for at least two years. One of the basic areas on which we place significant emphasis is precisely to enable Poland and other Member States to apply reduced rates in this prodemographic area. I personally go to bilateral meetings with my counterparts, during which we exchange experiences, I present, apart from many other aspects of our reforms, how important it is to enable Poland to apply reduced rates in this area. So that this awareness is built with our partners in the European Union, and in this direction there is also work at the level of the European Commission and in those bodies that are involved in this process. Therefore, if we were to apply unilaterally, contrary to the provisions of the Directive Today, this rate reduced to this prodemographic commodity group could jeopardise the positive finality of our efforts for two years in this area at European Union level. Therefore, there is a request for some kind of patience. I hope that soon we will be able to apply the reduced rate fully legally, fully in accordance with EU regulations. All these arguments, which you have put forward in favour of the reduced rate in these prodemographic products, are all right and are part of our argument at European Union level in bilateral discussions in Member States which, for example, have a Presidency in the European Union. For these prodemographic goods, this is not a significant budgetary impact. We estimate that this is about PLN 200 million per year. This is about a certain prodemographic coherence, a pro-family of Law and Justice and government policy. So that citizens are aware that at every stage this family with children is supported, whether we are talking about the 500+ programme, whether we are talking about a reduced rate on shoes and those clothes which, as the Member mentioned, must be exchanged frequently because of the growing child. So that in this respect the government is optimistic about the progress of work at European Union level and we should expect changes in this area soon. Turning to projects reducing the VAT rate during the tax year, during 2018, I would like to say that these projects generate significant budgetary damage. If we estimate the impact of reducing these rates annually to PLN 8.5 billion, then, respectively, there would be over 4 billion damage this year. These projects do not indicate the sources of funding for this damage, which means that they are in principle dangerous and pose a risk to public finances still this year. This means that from the perspective of the government, from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance, they are not accepted in the form in which they are presented. Of course, current budgetary results are the result of financial flows at this point in time, while, as a general rule, the 2018 budget provides for a deficit, and we cannot clearly claim that the current surplus allows to finance this loss which will lower the basic rate and lower the VAT rates to the budget. I would also like to remind you that the increase in the VAT rate in 2011 was not directly due to the global crisis of the world economy, the global financial crisis in the world, but, as you said here from the Platform, it was a rescue rate. It's a fantastic term for what happened back then. It was actually a rescue so that statistically it could prove itself [[♪ The bell ♪]] the financial situation that does not trigger the prudential thresholds. Today we have a different situation. Sealing the tax system, sealing the VAT system causes this additional percentage point to return to the pockets of Poles, to the pockets of Polish families, rather than to entities which abuse or extort VAT. And my last sentence. The argument that took place here, namely that simplifying the VAT rate matrix reduces the scale of fraud, is absolutely absurd, has nothing to do with reality. The definition of VAT rates does not affect fraud. If that were true, then the complexity of the VAT rate matrix for this hot dog would also result in VAT fraud in 2010 and 2011. That's not true. I think it's enough to look at these cases in the papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u235	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Well, maybe I'll start with the Minister's last words, 'cause they were really psychic. The Minister said that the sealing of the tax system causes the taxes which the Polish taxpayer pays to the tax office to return to the pockets of Polish families. Minister! I think it's the PiS ministers' families. If that's what you mean, of course you're right. Returning to the bill, which I had the honour of presenting on behalf of the applicants, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that unfortunately PiS wants to reject at first reading a law which harmonises and reduces VAT on food, a law which leaves PLN 1.5 billion in the pocket of the Polish taxpayer, mainly in the pocket of the poorest taxpayers, whom PiS was supposed to care about. Why doesn't PiS want to leave PLN 1.5 million in the pocket of Polish pensioners, pensioners, single mothers raising children? In fact, the answer is simple: because unfortunately Prime Minister Rostowski was right when he said there was no money for your promises. Moreover, Minister Gruza acknowledged this, saying that, in the current budgetary situation, this law is not feasible in spite of its advantages regarding the simplification of the system. This means that the PiS already understands that although he only fulfilled two of his electoral promises, with a whole series of uncoverable promises, he still lacked money. He ran out of money to the point where, from 1 January 2017, he raised VAT from 22% to 23% and from 7% to 8%. and introduced 20 new taxes, danins and fees, 20 new danins during the 2,5 years of the PiS government. There was just no money for your promises. You need to rip off some Poles so you can give away others and give them glory. But, Minister, your speech, to put it mildly, was illogical. In the first sentence, you commended the direction in which the law is going, namely simplifying the tax system, and then you said that in 2010 and 2011 we were confusing it ourselves. It's so typical of PiS. First of all, you do not understand, you pretend that you do not understand that the economic situation was completely different in 2010 and 2011, completely different today. I don't know, Mr. Minister's pretending he doesn't understand that by raising the basic rate and the reduced rate by this one percentage point, we have introduced an additional 5% rate that actually complicates the system, but, Minister, so that the poorest people who most often buy raw food, the easiest one, can survive the crisis as cheaply as possible. There's no such thing today. The economy is developing well, the world economy and the European economy. This, of course, benefits the Polish economy despite the inadequacies of this government, despite the inhibition of investment. We're developing, too. As a result, there is no unemployment, income taxes are paid well, wages are rising because employers pay more. And now is a good time to simplify this system and instead of three rates introduce two. If you're talking about brave moves, go ahead, enter one VAT rate with shields for the poorest. Then it'll be easier. You said that these different VAT rates were in no way related to the reduction of VAT revenue. And what Orlen does when selling low VAT hot dogs doesn't reduce the revenue of the state budget? Maybe that's why you have such a problem with VAT revenue? Minister Czerwińska had to send a letter to all the directors of the tax houses in Poland, rushing them, asking what was happening to this VAT. What's wrong with VAT? GDP growth in the first quarter - 5.2%, VAT growth - about 1%. So what about the gap and the seal? Something's gone wrong with you two. Too much propaganda, too little reliable action. The fear that you scared the businessmen who come to our offices... They tell them how you hold up VAT, they even say that they prefer not to even ask for the tax to give them some of the VAT, because then the check will come, and today the checks are that the taxpayer, even though it is, as you call it, the constitution for business, is without a chance, without any chance. Yet the Member, the representative of the PiS said, the only argument that the Member argued was that we were 8 years old. That's what I've been talking about, but maybe it's not worth it at all. One more thing I would like to explain is that here, too, the Kukiz Club 15 colleagues said something about the fact that we gave PiS this increased VAT as a gift. I would like to remind all of you that the PiS has raised VAT since 1 January 2017. He didn't get it from us as a gift, because the bill ended, the validity of the law with the raised VAT rate ended in 2016. The Minister also said something about the fact that this increase in the VAT rate was not the result of the crisis at all. Minister, there have really been a whole study on this subject, two waves of crisis. Both came to eight years of rule by the Civic Platform. Just get acquainted with them and don't talk about them, don't disappoint everything, because the Polish password in ruins turned out to be a lie, everyone already knows. Soon a lie, like the Smolensk lie, like the lie about Poland in ruins, will turn out to be this VAT-owska gap, and it is certainly a lie to put the Civic Platform in the belly that allowed this gap or did not take appropriate action. Finally, I can't help but say that Mr Parda still doesn't understand what it means to cancel bonds, to reduce public debt, to confuse public debt with deficit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u237	The representative of the applicants, Mr Jakub Kulesza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Parda will refer to the latter, and it is really funny that you pretend to have raised VAT only for your term of office, and for the term of office of Mr PiS it is the PiS that kept it. [[He picked it up himself.]] It was easier to keep these 23% How did you pick it up? You've made it easier. And that's the end of the discussion. This translation is really very childish. Everyone in Poland knows who led to this increase in VAT, and also knows who kept it, of course. [[He didn't.]] I would like to reply to Mrs Bubble, who responded to our request to reduce VAT on children's clothes that she was afraid of the European Union's response, which is completely contrary to what the Minister later said, who said that the dialogue with the European Union is being conducted with the European Commission on this matter. It would be good for you to take note of the ministry's work in this area. Similarly to the rule of the Civic Platform, it was not a fear to send such a proposal to the European Commission, nor would it be a threat to the rule of the PiS, nor would it be an obstacle to send the same proposal with the same content. I will also answer the questions asked by Members. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka asked if we know how complicated the rates are and so on. I answer that we all know, the ministry probably knows, but this is the only question that should be: What do we do about it that we know what the consequences are? Mr Wilczyński asked if it was true that these measures would cover... Here, too, the answer is yes. The two statements did not contain a question mark, they were claims, but very correct, while the remaining questions were addressed to the Minister of Finance. I would like to respond to the Minister on these announcements, in principle to the call for our patience. Minister, we have been patient - I say: we as Poles, citizens - for 8 years of government of the Civic Platform have been waiting for the promised tax cuts, we have been patient since 2012. Now we've been patient for almost three years. The question arises when our patience will end, when these actions, talks with the European Commission will end positively for Poland's citizens, and whether perhaps this patience would not help us to submit this proposal, which you are the author, or whether it would speed up the reduction of VAT to a level that would satisfy many Polish families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a representative of the applicants, has the floor. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. In that case, the representative of the applicants, Mr Blazej Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna talk a little bit about a few things. Member of the Commission, former Deputy Minister of the Civic Platform government went, threw a password, some sentence, something Parda, doesn't understand and goes away because she doesn't want to hear the explanation that she's a little bit spinning. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I know exactly what public debt and deficit is, but I don't know if you listened to my speech because I was talking about this public debt. There are prudential thresholds, and if you crossed the threshold - you knew that perfectly - there is a problem. They're in the constitution. For this reason, the increase in VAT, and then, when there was no money, is still taking money from OFE, it is about 150 billion PLN and redemption... In addition, this also has a direct impact on the deficit as there is no need to pay interest, i.e. the cost of the current debt service. But you'd have to be here to hear it. That's another line. The Minister said that VAT rates do not affect the level of fraud. Very interesting. Then let's reduce VAT to 2% per year and see if there are more or less frauds. I think that here empirical evidence will definitely speak in favour of the fact that this has a huge impact on VAT fraud. The bigger it is, so to speak, the fish, the more eager it is for this fish. The increase in VAT certainly has an impact on the involvement of criminal groups in such activities. This also results from my concern that the increase in VAT to 23% introduced by the Civic Platform has resulted in 5% profits only thanks to this single law on Mafia groups trading such money. So if someone gets 5% more money, it's more worth it. This means that even more people are eager to join this business - so simply counting. There was also a question from the Member of the Civic Platform regarding 5 PLN for fuel. VAT is a little related. Of course, the price of fuel as a result of the VAT reduction will also decrease. I will just remind you that today was also a proceded project by which the Government of Law and Justice makes a new fee, it is about increasing the fuel price by 10 gr, but its merit in these 5 PLN has the same government of the Civic Platform, which introduced a fuel charge of about 30 gr per litre of fuel. Therefore, this fee is unfortunately so high today and the fuel is so much taxed. Unfortunately, I regret that the Law and Justice once again apply to reject a good, necessary and important law. It's not about what you promised your constituents, it's about you and your conscience, but it's about the fact that it's just the right thing to do. However, the next solution we propose is rejected. I hope, however, that this will be rather one of those solutions that you copy and in six months you will present as your own. It will always in some way relieve citizens, even if we cannot sign directly under it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u241	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the Members' draft laws on the reduction of the applicable VAT rate. The proposed amendments provide for a 5% harmonisation of VAT rates for all food and food products, a reduction in the VAT rate of up to 5% for clothing and children's footwear, and a return to the VAT rate of 22% and 7% , which were in force 8 years ago and which, as the authorities of that time claimed, were raised at most for 3 years. We should start by saying that the opposition is doing these kinds of projects, finally admitting that the current state of our economy is good. I'll take that as a plus. I hope that this is the first step for them to start a substantive conversation with the government about what Poles expect and how this can be achieved. I am convinced that the reduction in the VAT rate is in line with these expectations. Moreover, I am also convinced that this is also seen by the ruling coalition, which proclaimed such a change as one of its electoral demands. However, another issue is whether this change will serve the Polish state and its citizens in the current circumstances. We all see how much has changed since the United Right took over. Applicable for 2 years 500+, free medicines for seniors, a reduction in retirement age are just some of the promises that have already been made, which significantly burden our budget, and in the forthcoming plans there are also others like the so-called ones. five Morawiecki, i.e. a reduction in CIT for small companies, which was first reduced from 19% to 15% , and now up to 9%, the introduction of a small ZUS calculated in proportion to the revenue, an expedition of 300 PLN for each student, a new local road construction fund and a programme of elimination of architectural barriers in public space. All these changes serve to improve the living conditions of Poles and Polish families. These solutions are also possible through taxation, and I believe that their possible reduction requires longer discussion, prioritising and very accurate estimates. As has been mentioned in this House many times, the budget is not made of rubber. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceding all projects. However, it should be noted that, while I am aware of the impossibility of making all the changes, I hope that we will particularly lean on the reduction of VAT on footwear and children's clothing. In my opinion, this would be a change that, in line with the government's family-friendly policies, would provide further help to families and encourage parenting. In view of current demographic trends, I consider all such actions to be extremely desirable.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u243	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 2418, 2433, 2451 and 2519 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 to 6 p.m. 16 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło (prints Nos 2495 and 2568). High Seym! On the basis of the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. At the moment, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, asked for the floor. There you go. [[Voices from the room: Beata, Beata, Beata.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to start with a little unusual, because it's a quote or a thought from the NIK report. NIK report, July 2015, on family policy, which is a part of social policy. Well, in this report by NIK, these auditors, those investigating family policy, stressed that family policy is uncoordinated, that there is really no family policy, that there are no fundamental assumptions. on long-term family policy and that therefore family policy is not a priority of the government of PO and PSL. And even as a curiosity in this report, NIK noted that in 2013, which was the Year of the Family, this priority of the family, was removed from the PO-PSL program. Well, for starters, maybe... [[Yeah, only a big family card came up. Lies like that aren't here.]] ...I'll show you... [[The voice in the room: You can tell lies like that in the PiS.]] ...under what circumstances the Law and Justice government included social policy controls. Because today, for a good cause, I should not be standing here, here should be a Polish family, a Polish family with two, three or four children. And these families are very well... [[Those who protested should stand.]] [[Voice from the room: With disabled children.]] ...they would then say what was most important to them, what was the life of Polish families in your time and what their life is now. These families would have spoken. This is where he should be standing... [[They spoke, Prime Minister.]] ...an employee who in your time earned PLN 5.6 an hour... [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] ...sometimes less than 5 PLN even, because those were the stakes. We have introduced hourly rates, which are the foundation of pro-working policy, pro-social policy, in the amount of 13 PLN, now 13.7 PLN... [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Prime Minister was earning much more at the time.]] ...and so much higher hourly rates, as well as significant, the highest in years was the increase in the minimum wage. Here, in this place, there could also be a family who was taken from their children because of poverty... [[He can't, because the Marshal of the Sejm won't let him in.]] ...because that's what happened in your day. [[Voice from the hall: There was no such family in Poland.]] And we changed it all. So the truth about social policy is that we don't have to... [[Voice from the room: Pathology.]] ...in a special way to defend our social policy, we do not need to defend the enormous work done by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, by Minister Elizabeth Rafalska, because it is the work that defends itself. [[Applause]] This is... [[Voice from the hall: You had to give to the poor, and you didn't take the bonus.]] ...therefore, such an action that serves the whole nation. We've been running a policy that you've been saying, "This can't be done, this can't be done, there's no money for it." Your finance minister Jan Vincent-Rostowski said it would be... [[There's no money for everything.]] ...the Greek option, the second Greece. Remember that? Meanwhile, we found money for social policy, winning the fight against the VAT mob, winning the fight against the VAT mob, [[Applause]] before which you made red carpets like before celebrities. And tax criminals stopped in Poland today to indicate that, so to speak, the direction of economic policy, as it was often before. And let me tell you, it was quiet after the last meeting of the government when we discussed [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the issue of the closure of the financial year, the closure of the tax system, because a summary of the State Treasury accounts is routine every year. There the proceeds from our sealing in the amount of PLN 40 billion were taken into account. Why didn't you question that? 'Cause you finally saw it was true, 'cause you finally saw that we really sealed our taxes... [[A voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] ...and we passed it on. [[Applause]] Social measures. [[For the prizes, for yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the programme activities, the deep pro-social actions that we have been doing for years are characterised by such dynamics... [[Voice from the room: Salaries of the councilmen of the PiS.]] ...when there's a proposal, a proposal for law and justice. 4.5 years ago at the Congress of Law and Justice, President Jarosław Kaczyński proposed 500+, even then. A day or two later, Prime Minister Donald Tusk... [[Then why didn't you give it to the disabled?]] ...he said, show me where the money is. Show me where they're buried. So we showed you where they... [[Where are they for the disabled? Where are they?]] ...they're buried. We've shown they're in fuel, in the fuel mafia, [[Applause]] Smuggling cigarettes, contaminated alcohol. We showed it all. We didn't just show them, we got them back for the Polish society, and we just handed them over to people. So that's the characteristics. Here's the offer, and on your side is mockery and mockery. Just like the other day. And that's what we're still seeing today. But consistently, my fellow countrymen, all of you, we are carrying out various social programs, because this program... [[And we're not natives?]] ...this biggest flagship program, changed the face of Poland, changed the lives of Poles. It was you who laughed at those families who suddenly went to the sea for the first time. You didn't like it. [[Who laughed?]] [[We're laughing at you.]] Well, unfortunately, fortunately for all of us, I have very good news. This year there will be two or three times more Polish families, Polish children to the Polish sea [[Applause]] thanks to the 500+ program. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This, of course, stings in the eye because it's a huge program that has definitely rebuilt the social structure. [[It's Bean. Normal lies.]] The CUS recently reported demographics. This programme, apart from various social objectives, is also a pro-family programme. Analysis of the Central Statistical Office - in 2014, it was planned that 346 thousand would be born in 2017. children. Nearly 60,000 were born. More. This is the great prodemographic success of the 500+ program. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska said so, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand why you're trying to question this program in different ways now, and you're trying to say that it's shared. You wrote in your application that this program is divided. Attention, because maybe you haven't read this motion. [[Give us a chance to say something in this Seym.]] Read your own motion. [[Applause]] This program divides Poles. It means that if you take this program, then everyone will join in poverty... [[Listen, then you'll understand.]] ...without this program. Is that what this is about? Do not take this program away from Poles, it is very necessary for Poles and is the foundation of our policy for the future. This is the 500+ part, very important because it also concerns credibility. In politics, credibility is very important. [[Right.]] What has been announced is being realized today. [[Reliability - big thing.]] On your side, on Mom's good case... What's our credibility? We're pretty much unbelievable. Unbelievable, which has also recently been very strongly encouraged by your EPP leader in the European People's Party. Joseph Daul came here and you probably heard what he said, and your faces, the face of President Schetin is just priceless... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We all heard.]] ...after Joseph Daul said he talked to a lot of young people and they told him that for the first time they didn't want to leave this country, [[Applause]] that they finally have prospects for development here. [[Statistics, see.]] The mine really is absolutely priceless. [[Voice from the hall: The Lord is not alive in this world. That's a lie!]] I recommend it to everyone if anyone's ever seen it, but it'll be happier for a while. That's how you build, ladies and gentlemen, credibility, that's how credibility is built. That's why when I said at the Law and Justice Convention a few weeks ago that we would implement the expedition, the good start program, 300 PLN on this difficult school prenup... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: And we will take the books.]] Absolutely not taking any books and you... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] ...please, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Don't take any books either. [[Applause]] So 300+, as we said, this is what we do, and this is also the credibility that we emphasize through our actions. [[What about the disabled? And what did you give them? There's nothing for them.]] [[Voice from the room: How much did you give?]] The next great task that we carry out in the context of social policy is 75+. This is a program for seniors who in the times of the Third Republic of Poland, in times most of your governments were on the margins. They're the ones you've been taking away their wages... [[Lie! That's a lie!]] ...it's their de facto retirement age. Enough, PSL raised the retirement age for women... [[But you give yours.]] ... PSL, of course, together with POs, some women living in the countryside, even 12 years old, and men - even 7 years old. [[A lie, a lie, and a lie again!]] Those who worked hard. We give a choice. We're giving you a choice. The person who wants to retire at the age of 60 and 65 respectively. Whatever he wants, he works longer. You know what, ladies and gentlemen? A lot of people today choose a job, but a lot of people choose an early retirement age. [[That's a lie! Absolutely a lie!]] Exactly what we promised. The characteristic feature of our social policy is credibility, and I want to emphasise that. [[Applause]] As part of senior policy, it is also very important what we have done by developing the infrastructure of the senior home. I've been to a house like this in Ostrołęka, and I've seen people live there... [[Senior's houses are our...]] ...I've seen the possibilities of creative, creative work, the relationships that go on there. [[30 million less last year.]] I'm really built by the fact that as part of our social policy... [[You brought the senior parliament out of the Sejm, just like the children's parliament.]] ...we have put so much emphasis on the development of various senior programs. It's not just free drug programs, it's not just senior house programs, it's not just a reduction, as promised, of the retirement age, but it's also the highest, compared to your 8-year-old pension valorization. Compare your pennies to what we did this year and last year. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: This is a lie.]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] It also raises the minimum pension to PLN 1000, and today, after valorization, it is PLN 1029,80. These are the steps we've decided to take. And again it was possible because we seriously approached you, that we didn't listen, like you, to these neoliber dreamers, we didn't listen to those different Balcerowicz people who said that social affairs were a cost, [[Applause]] I think it's best that the employee doesn't have any raises because that's when you attract investors. We have shown that it is exactly the opposite, that social matters, that helping people is an investment. This investment in man pays off very well. That's what we do all the time, and we're gonna do it. We're definitely not getting off this road. [[Applause]] [[In a piss man.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth noting that in addition to programs for seniors we also have, apart from the 500+ programme, social programs for young people. The programme is based on a threefold increase in crèches, care facilities - up to PLN 450 million. We've increased it by $25,000. number of places in daycare. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are also increasing the infrastructure so necessary to raise children. Our social programmes are multifaceted, which is why I said at the last Convention on Law and Justice that we will also implement a minimum pension for moms. For our grandmothers, our moms, for ladies who have four children or more. It can't be like this... [[Six.]] Yeah, six, too. I know you laughed at people like that, called them pathological parents. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Who laughed?]] [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] You can't call it that, you can't insult people like that. These are families of many children who bear the greatest burden of development of Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] This is a vocabulary you should forget. [[You're lying like a communist.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That is why we have these, these grandmothers we will appreciate, because they have done and often do the biggest work for Poland. Thanks to their work, Poland has much better growth prospects, much bigger, better development prospects. [[Voice from the room: Will you help? We'll help.]] And we're definitely gonna get this mother's pension from the new year, and you can be sure of that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The bonus will be many more.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Social policy, which has been so profoundly changed thanks to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, thanks to Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, also includes a number of housing programmes. Because really Polish families, when asked, say that the most important thing for us is family, work, pay and apartment. And I've said a lot about this family, about pay, minimum monthly salary, hourly rate, too. That there is the lowest unemployment in Poland thanks to our economic activities, I have already said a bit. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[When did it start falling?]] Work. We have a huge achievement today by attracting investors, although you are trying to scare them away. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But we still have to talk about the apartment. [[Voice from the room: What is not in the statement.]] Well, in the case of our apartment+ programme, it is also a great social program. [[On paper.]] Of course, you doubted it. You said it was unreal. [[And you proved it.]] This is your song, your talk from the beginning. [[Applause]] Why do we need this, we can't do it, no way. Meanwhile, we have just shown, by handing the first keys to 186 families, that the Living+ programme is possible. And do you know how many people were willing to go to one apartment against the propaganda of some media? [[A million people were willing.]] Seven, eight-to-one, which means it shows at the same time... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, laugh at this program, of course, because you only care about living here, in Warsaw or in cities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: We laugh at you.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[Our self-governments have given more than you.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because the characteristic of your policy is something I want to talk about with all my power, because we address it through our social policy. You know what? This is the division, the division mainly into big cities and villages... [[Voice from the hall: For a better sort, for a worse sort.]] ...small towns and villages. [[Voice from the hall: Thieves, Communists.]] No, we do not share, we do not want any such divisions here in Poland. For us, Poland is one. [[Applause]] [[What we hear every day.]] And from Warsaw, and from Szczecin, and from Suwałk, and from Sanok, and from Sierpc, and from Little Golędzinov, from Szewc, or from Pęgów. These are small towns and we have a pro-social policy, a pro-family policy to make it fair. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] You want an example, go ahead. [[Voice from the room: We don't want anything.]] [[Voice from the room: No examples.]] What was your pro-family policy like in case of relief? Well, they were relieved, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Presidents.]] ...mostly those who had some income recorded, right, income mainly from the employment contract, so mostly city dwellers, not villagers. [[You know your way around the country, too.]] So the villagers didn't just have a lower average wage... [[But they don't pay taxes. Farmers don't pay taxes.]] ...they have not yet been able to benefit from your system of reliefs and privileges. So the opposite of social policy. It was better for those who were richer, and worse for those who were less wealthy. Well, we certainly won't be running that kind of policy. [[Applause]] The Living+ programme is a great civilization program, where the first steps have already been taken. The pilot went well - contrary to what you've known in the last 12 months - excellent. [[You... have a different opinion about this.]] We're gonna give back more apartments in the next few months and we're gonna start this snowball. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Developer+.]] You're afraid of it, you're afraid that this bullet will crush you, because if people see that you can create Poland not only for those of the big cities, for developers, I think they're going to vote accordingly. [[Applause]] [[And that's why we're expanding the Marshal's Guard to protect us.]] And that's the basic difference. This is Poland's power versus Poland's powerlessness. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But you know what else? When I look at all the EU's social programmes, Europeans -- I've been doing a little bit -- there are a lot of programmes that we've implemented. How will you deal with this? Here - attention - they should start beating you a little harder now. These are EU programmes, European programmes, so I think you would applaud at a time like this. [[We only have the right to clap here.]] Sometimes I think that you love this Europe more than Poland even. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[As you can be ashamed of yourself.]] But you know what? I'll tell you. Our programmes have brought us up in the social policy presented by the European Commission to fourth place in Europe. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: And you think you're an educated man? To the Prime Minister?]] We are one of the countries that rejected these myths, that social spending is just a cost, that capital has no nationality, and the state is not needed for anything. And we're implementing a completely different, completely different change. Because the broad understanding of social policy is also the presence of the state where it needs to be. And you guys were rolling up this country. [[You're always where you need to be.]] Now it's a list of disgraces. Stations, police stations - a map. We should make it, we'll make it, we'll show it to you. You're laughing about it too, aren't you? [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Wroclaw and Stachowiak.]] There's gonna be a map of the police stations you closed down. I'm driving around Poland now. Minister Błaszczak played, today Minister Brudziński plays these stations. [[Three of them recreated it.]] We've already recreated 100 police stations. Do you know how many police stations you've locked up? You've locked down 400 police stations in 817. [[But that's not the point, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Police cars have moved.]] This is an unbelievable reduction. Dear fellow countrymen, this is how the coalition of PSL and PO worked. Locking down half the police stations means... [['Cause the cops are gonna go out on the street.]] ...the reduction of security, the reduction of peace, also the reduction of social peace. This is also a widely understood social policy. You guys were rolling, and we're developing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few sentences about an extremely important part of social policy, in which Minister Elżbieta Rafalska has done a great deal. This is the area of people with disabilities, people with various disabilities. To begin with, a few numbers, those very large ones, those that I am sure Members are able to read perfectly, and those very concrete ones in the budgets of individual families. Well, we've increased the spending on people with disabilities from 12.5 billion to over 15.5 billion in 2.5 years. [[Applause]] [[May I? Yes, you can.]] That's an increase of 25%. And the household budgets of people tragically hurt by fate have been increased by various types of rehabilitation and care allowances, a social pension of about 2 000. PLN up to approx. 3000. zł, that is 50%. These are real means... [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] ...in families' budgets with people with disabilities. [[Applause]] In just the last period - 2.5 years we increased the social pension by almost 50%. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is our debate, not yours.]] This is something that has grown 50% in your time. for about eight years. This is the difference between us, because we really are trying to ensure that in the case of people with disabilities their fate is better supported by the state. [[What about Poland's debt?]] That's why we've increased our social pension, as I said. That is why we have implemented the law on rehabilitation allowance. There's real money in there. [[Which one? What money?]] We have been telling the truth from the very beginning, and I think that the vast majority of people with disabilities understand this and therefore sit with us to the round table. In June with Minister Rafalska, with Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we are making a round table and, without falling asleep in ashes, we will continue to change this system for the benefit of people with disabilities. [[Applause]] All these rehabilitation allowances involve actual expenditure on the part of the National Health Fund, where we increase the budget on the side of budget expenditure, so it is real, as it is said, living cash that we give to people with disabilities. That is why we are trying to read these social needs very well or as best as we can. So in this area, too, thanks to the solidarity tribute you seem to be supporting, right... I hope you support this tribute from millionaires... [[He speaks for us, he's responsible for us.]] ...from earning more than a million dollars, right? [[Voice from the hall: Tax, not tribute.]] You have also tried - such reflection on the margins - ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of blackmailing us with various kinds of pressures, the fact that they will be here - a few Members in this spirit have spoken - various kinds of unrest, street and abroad, right. This is your strategy. [[That's what you say!]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: What are you talking about?]] In the meantime, what I'm trying to say is that this is why, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're showing you the true face of social policy. We are heirs of Solidarity, we are really... [[Applause]] [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Are you the heir of solidarity?]] ...we translate what she wanted in the '80s for social purposes. And that's what we do with full commitment... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Who are you? The heir? How embarrassing are you?]] ...using simply the winning fight against tax mobs... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzywarska: How can you not be ashamed to stand here and talk to us?]] ...with VAT mobs. It is absolutely unacceptable that this is how you treated the entire tax system in your time. Meanwhile, we through solidarity tribute - this tribute already today will cover more than PLN 1.5 billion, about PLN 1.5 billion... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: And you signed agreements?]] ...we're going to be helping those poorest and most needy... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Christ!]] ...and we're gonna tax, we're gonna pay tribute to the richest ones. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room:]] But at the same time, I would like to tell you about an extremely important programme, a social programme that we have been developing since autumn last year. That's the best proof of that... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: That you are lying. Best proof of that.]] ...that our social agenda wasn't the answer, the accessibility+ program wasn't just the answer to the protest, because I announced it... [[Does it already work?]] ...in greater detail much earlier, and I spoke very specifically about it at the Convention of Law and Justice before this protest. This is why the Accessibility+ programme is so important. And what was your offer to the public? Take the credit... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska:...in which you worked.]] [[Then why did you give these loans?]] ...change your job. That's what former President Komorowski said. Change, take it. And what was his interpretation, the same president, of the 500+ program? I don't know if you remember. This is the dumbest way to spend public money. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: You were involved in this. Hello! You had your hands in it.]] The dumbest way to spend public money. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: That's what you advised.]] So we, Mr Komorowski, are showing that we can do what actually happened to a large extent with my participation in the Ministry of Finance. [[I think you're being too modest.]] The VAT mobs that roamed in your day, we took the money and gave it to people for social purposes. [[Applause]] So instead of mocking and mocking at the social goals that have rebuilt Poland, where we live in a completely different way today, especially for people in the countryside, in smaller towns, throughout Poland, maybe think about some programme proposals. Why don't you think about answering some questions? [[Don't worry about us. We can really do this.]] Maybe I'll make it easier for you. I'm gonna ask you a few questions. Will you be part of social policy... Do you support this social policy? [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Will you help? We're not gonna help.]] Do you support 500+? You don't support 500+. Are you in favour of 300+, our expedition? You don't support 300+ either. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Do you support our social policy on pensioners, the reduction in the retirement age? Will you restore the previous retirement age?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u245	Calm down, please. [[Calm the Prime Minister down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u246	Can you answer these questions? [[We can't answer that.]] Can you also answer if you will leave your pensions reduced to esbek and ubekom? Will you bring back...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u247	Mrs Krystyn Skowronska, please do not shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u248	This is basic justice and solidarity. The workers of the "Solidarity" earned less than the pensions of the Esbeks and the Ubeks, [[Applause]] And we took those pensions. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: But you made ten times more at the time.]] That's a social goal too. Will you bring them back? That's my next rhetorical question. But I can ask you further. Are you going to continue our social security programs, the playback of police stations? Will you raise the taxes we have reduced? We also reduced them for social purposes. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: He asks the questions himself, he answers the questions himself.]] [[You lower taxes, and you introduce tributes.]] Because especially for small companies that run business, the ZUS was a huge burden. We lower this ZUS. It will be proportional to 2.5 times the minimum wage. [[Who?]] No - huge burdens for small businesses, and shopping malls and shops did not pay at all. [[Applause]] I want to tell you that thanks to our actions in the last six months in Brussels, we have been able to negotiate this... [[Well, in Brussels, it's...]] ...you guys haven't tried at all. It's gotta be hard-to-negotiate. We're gonna tax shopping malls, big shops and commercial offices. [[Applause]] [[All those words will come back someday.]] This money from these richest commercial office buildings, from the shopping galleries we will transfer to the Treasury... [[It didn't come into force, man.]] We are also transferring them to social goals. [[It didn't come into force, man.]] So I can ask you further. And do you, ladies and gentlemen, want a random distribution of court cases? Do you want the President of the court to send judges between different departments after being considered? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We want independent orchards.]] Do you want Judge Milewski to be a symbol of your rule? [[Voice from the hall: Crystal.]] I think you're supporting this reform of justice, aren't you? [[Bravo! Bravo, Mr. Morawiecki! We know where you're standing.]] Dear young judges, but not only young, all judges, I believe that you in the vast majority also want this reform of the justice system. [[Applause]] You want more efficient courts, less chronic courts, more just courts. You want what we want. I'm addressing the judges, the judge's community. There's a Roman paraemia: aequitas sequitur legem, which means justice follows the law. Of course we agree with this, but we say that it is also the opposite, that the lex sequitur aequitatem, means that the rule of law can really function in the state when there is justice, when there is justice. [[Applause]] That's it, dear judges. For the reconstruction of social life, the fair courts that you certainly want to represent are very important and we are certainly not going off this path of normal reform like all countries. [[Prosecutor of martial law - that's justice.]] Because ladies and gentlemen, the Third Republic since the Fourth Republic - they are not named anywhere, I do not know, in the Constitution or, of course, in the laws - they differ substantially. Does it work for certain selected interest groups... [[Voice from the room: PiS.]] ...does he respect certain clientelism, corporateism? [[That's exactly how it works.]] Or is it a policy that serves everyone? It is intended to promote the democratisation of social life, not exclusion, not exclusion from parentheses, but just to make people happier so that economic development is more even. [[But that's what you're suggesting...]] Because the characteristic mark of our economic development is responsible development. The social market economy, you forgot the article. 20 constitutions... [[And how many of you have done for this development...]] It is we who restore the importance and true content of this article.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u249	Mr Nitras... [[What do you write all the time?]] ...don't interfere with the Prime Minister's speech. [[Who am I interrupting?]] [[Voice from the room: everyone.]] [[Don't bother me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u250	Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, is responsible for so many successes in social policy that when you talk to people in all places of Poland, they cannot believe that someone could have applied for an appeal from the Prime Minister's government, Minister. [[Applause]] Of course you won't cancel the Minister, you won't cancel the Prime Minister, but you can do something good: cancel your anti-social policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Cancel this social policy and we invite you to our camp. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Poland is one, we want to cooperate with you. [[After everything you've said? So many lies, hypocrites.]] We want to work with everyone to improve the fate of all the social groups that have been forgotten in this neoliberal model of yours, including a model that was characterized by something else, that was for a good cause... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Listen to yourself later.]] When I remember what I said last year in Przysie, why would we need LOT, since we have Lufthansa, I was so rhetorical about why we... [[We're the ones who saved the lottery. It's us. You guys are supporting this.]] ...euro, since we have the gold, I didn't think your candidate for President of Warsaw might really think so. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Are you still doing the election campaign here?]] That he might really think why we need the Central Communication Port when we have a port in Berlin. [[Applause]] I really didn't think so. Believe me, somebody might not know if he's running for president of Warsaw or mayor of Berlin. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Or is this politics, a symptom of the Civic Platform policy? Maybe instead of modern Poland, instead of Central Communication Port, hub, you just want a port in Berlin and a port in Frankfurt am Main? [[How dare you tell such a thing?]] [[Are you the Prime Minister? Are you the Prime Minister or are you just a politician?]] Maybe instead of a gas hub in Poland, you want to sign a gas contract with Gazprom by 2035, maybe you still want it? [[Aren't you ashamed?]] No, I hope you can see today that this is not what the Poles want. That Poles want social policy, one that really connects and which gives prospects for development in all parts of Poland. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: You've already seen what the Poles want.]] [[Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Quiet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: we don't count it, but you've run for a complaint 300 times to various foreign capitals on us, on our terrible regime, our terrible power. [[You're grotesque.]] [[In Europe, we're at home.]] But you know what, let me see if you have any... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You don't want to, you just have to, the Member here said... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What do you have to do?]] So, ladies and gentlemen, instead of making these complaints, requests to Brussels or elsewhere, perhaps you would consider how much you have made pro-social proposals. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: I can tell you.]] [[They're all at Kuchcinski's.]] I'll give you a hint: zero. No proposals that raise Polish entrepreneurship and improve the fate of the Polish family. [[We'd like to replace the president. But it's too soon. It's too soon.]] But you know, maybe it's for the best, because it's kind of a debate in the defense of Prime Minister Szydło... [[What debate? You're the only one who's talking right now.]] ...Mrs. Elizabeth Rafalska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u251	Mr Nitras, this is the second time I have warned you. Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u252	I think that we should really protect Poles from the return of the Civic Platform and the PSL to power. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Today you are built up.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, social policy is crucial and I will say something that for many of you, especially here on this side, but maybe to a lesser extent than before, it will sound trivial: that economy and society are one. There is no society that develops evenly, without good, fair, solidarity-based economic development. [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Especially in solidarity.]] Economic growth must serve all social groups, these are the basic principles of our social policy. [[Applause]] That is why we will do everything together with Prime Minister Beata Szydło, together with Minister Elizabeth Rafalska, with the entire camp of the United Right. Because we will not mistake Warsaw for Berlin. [[Applause]] [[Member Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: And this Patrick Jakim Warsaw was wrong about Czech Prague.]] Patrick Jak certainly knows exactly what serves the interests of Poles and the interests of Warsawians. [[Warsaw is wrong with Moscow. Democracy.]] I'm sure there's nothing wrong with him here. We will continue this policy. That is why we will drive, listen to Poles because we want to earn their trust. Because we believe that in the century of regaining independence we are largely realizing that dream of glass houses, not glass ceilings that were in your time, but a dream of glass houses. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Do you know Poles of dreams?]] Because that was the dream of our ancestors, and that is the task of our grandchildren. Poland is one: white and red. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u253	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am merely pointing out to you that some Members are violating the importance of this House by their conduct. I address, above all, Mr Sławomir Nitras. Mr. 39 times [[Joy in the Chamber]] Speaking loudly and shouting interrupted the Prime Minister's speech. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] I'm asking for a representative... [[It can't be that you're the only ones talking, and we have no right to say anything.]] Don't disturb me, sir. [[Everyone's bothering you but you.]] Don't bother me right now. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Kara! Kara!]] [[What's this? What right? This is where the applicant should be speaking, not the Prime Minister. And you...]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a I state that your conduct violates the importance of this House. [[Voice from the room: Calm down, really.]] I ask the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Augustyn, to provide the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister... [[This isn't kindergarten.]] High Izbo! It's a shame you're here, Marshal. [[This is your political culture.]] ...he did not draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he left here and for 50 minutes, not listening to any arguments, not listening to a motion of distrust for his deputy prime minister and family minister, making such nonsense and lies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If you listen to this again, you'll be surprised. You'll be surprised. I'll tell you, you were wrong about the PiS convention with the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Shame. It's just a shame. The first and most important thing that disqualifies all of you. You said 50 minutes. How much time have you devoted to the disabled who are the subject of this debate today, this discourse today? [[Applause]] [[Same as the protest. One minute.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] How much? [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero!]] Two sentences. And the first and most important thing for us today is a discussion about people with disabilities that you don't notice. You are able to award yourself a million-dollar reward, and you will not give them 500 zlotys, even though 40 days are waiting for it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Who told you those lies? The platform, the PSL will take it away, eliminate it. No, I want to disappoint you very much: we're not taking the 500+ program. [[Something like that. Bravo.]] We're just gonna make him fair. We're not gonna take it. [[Applause]] Many, many of the things you said here today are lies and discourses. You really smoke out of your ears when you say things like that. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir! Polish Prime Minister.]] Really, in the debate about people with disabilities, to talk about the fact that in the Pomeranian Stone they're renovating the police station, and there's no last car there, and the cops don't have anything to go for intervention... You know, it's just a shame. This is a complete mistake. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir! Empty precincts because the police aren't here.]] But let us go back to today's motion for mistrust, because we want to talk about the Prime Minister, who - here I will quote your regulation, which you issued on 20 December - is responsible for initiating and coordinating projects to improve the availability and level of social and caring services and the situation of people with disabilities and their carers. It is Prime Minister Szydło who is responsible for this. You didn't read it, you forgot it. You forgot to tell me. We asked the Prime Minister about it on Monday at the social policy committee meeting, and we found out that everything was okay. We have learned that the conclusions are stupid that the strike in the Sejm was political and that the Prime Minister has nothing to blame because the government is sensitive. You can tell yourself that a thousand times - maybe it's worth it, because if you keep telling yourself that your government is sensitive, maybe someday you'll believe it. [[Applause]] But for now, I've prepared some arguments for the exact opposite. The Prime Minister has requested an apology from us. 40 days she didn't have time to come to the disabled, talk to them. They spent 40 nights on the floor. There was no Prime Minister responsible for taking care of the weakest in society. [[Applause]] But she's offended. How about you think you're the one who should apologize to the disabled? You ignored these people, said they were a small group, meaningless group. [[It's probably from Germany.]] The Prime Minister was sitting at the committee meeting. I don't remember you resenting me for protesting you for making any gesture that would show you're behind those disabled people. [[Voice from the hall: You billed them for the soup.]] The next day, however, the Prime Minister said that she did not have to go to the media because they are all a united national team. What kind of team didn't you even go out on the field in that game? [[Applause]] What kind of team is this? I'm not gonna bully you here anymore, considering who's gonna score in this game, but I'm pretty sure you shot yourself, really. [[Applause]] Since the Prime Minister has expressed her desire for us to talk substantively, let me remind you: for the last eight years, and also today, above all, we have taken people with disabilities seriously as citizens. That's why we removed the barriers so that they could live with dignity. We have ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We introduced them a second language, sign language, official language. We have increased the number of families with assistance from 70,000. in 2007 to 105 000 parents and carers in 2015 We increased funding for rehabilitation tours and equipment. We've simplified the 1% transfer. Since 2009, there has been a significant increase in the amount for public benefit organisations, which really help a lot of people with disabilities. We gave pensions to all the Olympic medalists. [[And you gave 500 zlotys?]] One simple, but very important law on dog guide helped disabled people to access shops, restaurants, offices and means of transport - just with the assist dog - and before that they were closed places for them. [[Applause]] Despite your resistance, despite the complaint you brought to the Constitutional Court in 2011, we made it easier for people with disabilities... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: So they reported.]] ...participation in the elections thanks to the possibility of voting in correspondence and by representatives. [[Applause]] The voting cards with the Braille alphabet are valid. In each municipality, at least 1/3 of the voting places for disabled people can vote calmly, there is special electoral information for them. Actually, I should have said that in the past tense, because the PiS team came in and what she touched, it ruined it. [[The voters supported us.]] That's how you manipulated... [[Accessibility+.]] ... The electoral code that you threw into the basket the rules on correspondence voting, but after the protests you kindly allow, but only some, only people with a significant or moderate degree of disability, to elections, and the rest, all the other people, the elderly, living outside Poland, are excluded. [[Applause]] These changes, Prime Minister, violate the constitutional principles of the universality of elections and equal participation in political life. But that's not all, because the worst, the saddest, the most embarrassing are the reasons why you're doing this. You may recall how the PiS Members argued at the time why they wanted to eliminate the correspondence vote. [[They don't trust them.]] 'Cause the disabled are gonna be trading votes. Shame on you, Prime Minister! Disgraceful! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] It's just a disgrace! [[Voice from the room: Communion!]] I'm the one who wants to ask now if you were protesting when it happened. Did you express your outrage at least once? Where were you then? Did you defend the disabled against taking away their constitutional rights? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Prime Minister voted in favour of this bill. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You talk so beautifully about the need for dialogue. Who do you want to conduct this dialogue with? Disabled people came here, to Parliament. Has the Prime Minister met with them? You needed two years to set up a national consultative council. Now you're saying, Prime Minister, you'll be talking to the disabled from June. Congratulations. And the opposition? And why doesn't any amendment... [[But you guys haven't talked in eight years.]] ...the opposition isn't even considered at all? Why does all this go to the trash? That's because you're ignoring it. You may ignore us, but people with disabilities and the whole environment will remember this. [[But don't differentiate.]] It's a shame, it's a disgrace, it's obscene. [[Put a line on it.]] You can talk very nicely about what you did good. And praise you for that. The Prime Minister stressed today that you have raised your social pension by more than 30%. However, you will not be aware that during the Civic Platform, i.e. during the crisis, the care provision for parents of children with disabilities was raised from PLN 420 which you left for us in 2006 to PLN 1475. [[Applause]] [[For some.]] From 420 to 1400. So what's the percentage? 30? 50? How much is that? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But to whom?]] You know a lot about math... [[Voice from the room: 250.]] ...maybe you can figure it out. I don't expect any credit from you because the first thing you did was apply to the Constitutional Court where you wrote, you'd probably be surprised... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Suski, line.]] ...but listen to the fact that the principles of a democratic rule of law have been violated, in particular the principle of social justice and the principle of equality with the law and the obligation to provide assistance to disabled people in safeguarding their existence. The Constitutional Tribunal has granted you the right, the agreement, but your hypocrisy is that you have failed to comply with this judgment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Arciszewska - line.]] You've gone to the tribunal for him, it's been three years, and the sentence is still not fulfilled. [[Applause]] And the Prime Minister is not protesting that the guardians of disabled people, adults, independent people don't get that money. [[For now, you're talking.]] And yet you say there's no money for it. Well, the money issue for you guys is really very sensitive, and you should think about when you're talking about it. [[The government's fed up.]] But you're lying. Please take a look at the draft budget law left by the Platform for 2016: part 83, the special reserve contains PLN 657 million... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...to secure the liability of the State Treasury. [[They stole it.]] Where are they? Where's the money? [[You're lying, you're lying...]] [[A voice from the room: True, true!]] I mean, adult carers... [[Bonus's gone.]] ...disabled people didn't get them. So where's the money? You guys are having trouble with money and manipulating information at all. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: On roads that were not there.]] [[Arciszewska - line.]] At the Monday meeting of the committee we heard, for example, that you gave - and this was said by Minister Rafalska - 1,200 PLN for the workshop of occupational therapy, but not 1,200 PLN and 100 PLN, because when this 100 PLN is multiplied for 12 months, the money will not arrive, right, and only you did not give, but gave the previous government, [[Applause]] Because, remember, you signed this regulation in December 2015. It was prepared with the money... [[No money. What was the money for?]] ...and waited for the signature. The Prime Minister signed, praise her for that, absolutely, except for the next three years you have done nothing. [[Applause]] Today you're bragging that you're the saviors of the WTCs. I'm looking at the Internet today on the page that Fr. Isakowicz-Zaleski, and I read: From 2015, repeated calls from the community of occupational therapy workshops on improving the financial situation of institutions addressed to prime ministers: Beata Szydło, Mateusz Morawiecki, Jarosław Kaczyński, and ministers of Elżbieta Rafalska and Krzysztof Michałkiewicz remained without a specific response. The nationwide protest action of workshops of occupational therapy begins. Then where are your actions, Prime Minister? Where are they? Are the WTCs also protesting with joy and gratitude? What did you do for them? [[Yes!]] Where's your disability sensitivity? [[I'm in position.]] With beautiful, round sentences, you can talk beautifully about what you do, how you care about people, but the protesters... [[Voice from the hall: The Dunajec flowed.]] ...they don't know it at all. Where have you been? [[Applause]] when your subordinate Minister Zalewska moved the children who needed to be taught individually from school to home. [[It's a lie.]] Lying? Madam President, so far counsellors and parents have been able to agree whether such teaching can take place at home or at school. [[You're scaring your parents.]] It's only happening at home today. You've removed the disabled children from school. If they need individual teaching, they have it. Only at home. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Then pay attention.]] And for hours, you can tell how you're doing it for their own good. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, do you hear what they're saying?]] Fantastic. I ask the Prime Minister why you didn't listen to protesting parents, Poles at the time. You told me in the election campaign that you would listen to them. In general, you like to say that you are fulfilling your electoral promises, but the problem is that these are lies. An example? There you go. Where's $5,000? new jobs for which the Minister and the Prime Minister announced that they would be created for the disabled by 2017? There isn't. It's a lie. May I remind you that, during our term of office, 60 000 were created in the labour market, in the open labour market. jobs for people with disabilities. [[Applause]] You can't do $5,000. Is this an improvement, or is this the devastation of this market? Because I think it's devastating. Prime Minister, what are these disabled people doing looking for a job today? How do you care about their business? With what sensitivity do you refer to them? This is disregard for protesting parents, as well as for protesting adults with disabilities. You don't forget yourself and your ministers. You can give yourself a multi-thousand-dollar award, but you couldn't come for 40 days. [[Applause]] And tell them you won't give them 500 zlotys. [[They can't give it back yet.]] From contempt to contempt is one step. I don't want to use harsh words, but they're gonna settle you, they're gonna settle you out of that soullessness you had against them. When they called you and you were walking down the stairs, you didn't even look at them. [[With the BOR.]] Shame, just shame. [[Applause]] You've all learned how to organize a life. You do whatever you want. You're dictating how we live our lives. You tell all Poles what to do, you tell all Poles what to do. They come and ask you to do simple basic things. You tell them a lot of beautiful words about how you're gonna do it, and then you don't give them anything, you come out with a smile, and that's it. Unfortunately, disabled people won't let themselves live. [[Disabled persons.]] They are people who know what they expect, and will protest, and will protest until the state does not actually implement these demands. The thousands of lies you feed people are lies that many will no longer fall for. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Mosiński - a line.]] You joked, Prime Minister, at the beginning of your premiere, that it came out of the bag. For many, and certainly for the environment of people with disabilities, it would be better not to work out. [[Applause]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes a request to express a vote of distrust towards you, and I hope that, as before, in the vote of distrust towards the Prime Minister... [[We'll reject it.]] ...this one's gonna be a success someday. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u255	Thank you, Member. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u256	After such an appearance I have a challenge, but where there is no rhetoric, there are screams. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Nevertheless... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: The Prime Minister did this for you.]] [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] [[Voices from the hall: Mr. Marshal, time!]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in print No 2568 on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this request at its meeting on 4 June 2018, decided by 20 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstentions to give a negative opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u257	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only fair, honest and solidarity Poland can develop, only in such Poland can we use everything that we have gained by our own efforts, which is our success, the work of living generations - from these wise and important words of the dead. Professor Lech Kaczyński, I would like to begin my speech. [[Applause]] Let's remember those words. Let them be a motto, an answer to the question of what we are for, who we are for, and what is the meaning of our presence in politics. Even in 2015 during the end of the reign of the PO, which at one time went to elections with the slogan: To live better for everyone, nearly 1 million Polish children live in extreme poverty. They were just hungry and malnourished. In this respect, it was only in Romania and Bulgaria that was worse in Europe. Platform politicians didn't take it for granted. Stefan Niesiołowski talked about chow, plums and mirabelles. Do you remember that? [[Shame.]] The headlines of the newspapers shouted that Polish poverty had the face of a child, and the Polish plague: hungry children. The mother left her baby on the mat because she was so poor, she didn't have enough to raise her second child. The little boy fainted at school because he hadn't eaten in three days, and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz absurdly commented that if anyone said that children in Poland are starving... [[Eve Kicker is not your friend.]] ...that gives the argument of Russian propaganda, which uses it against Poland. It's the same one today. Eve Kopacz filed a motion for a vote... [[Prime Minister Eve Kicker.]] ... She signed a motion for mistrust for you, Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska - people who have become almost a symbol of true and effective social policy, [[Applause]] The government of Law and Justice has been running since 2.5 years of collapse when the Polish coalition PO-PSL was in power and Ewa Kopacz was Prime Minister. [[Prime Minister Eve Kicker.]] Not everyone today remembers that in 2010 and 2015 under the PO-PSL coalition, the proportion of people with expenditure below the statutory poverty limit increased by as much as 65% and below the statutory poverty threshold lived in Poland by nearly 2.5 million Poles. In the meantime, with the silent permission or by the total incompetence of the PO-PSL government, the VAT mafia brought out the large billions of zlotys from the budget, and Poland shocked further scandals, with Amber Gold scandal, gambling and reprivatization in Warsaw... [[Is that your message of the day?]] ...and other cities at the head. So let us ask ourselves: Was Poland ruled by Donald Tusk, Grzegorz Schetyn, Ewa Kopacz or Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz in Warsaw fair, honest and solidarity? It wasn't. The platform wasn't... [[A voice from the room: No!]] ...of ordinary people. She took care of herself and her friends. And today too... [[You're your bonuses.]] ...a motion for a vote of distrust towards your Deputy Prime Minister and your Minister does not think about people, but only about his political interests. [[Was it yours?]] Social policy in the times of PO-PSL practically did not exist, and the symbol of your social sensitivity became widely described in the media as a gesture of one of your prominent politicians who asked him to support an older person generously offered up to 20 gr. [[Fifty.]] [[Voice from the room: Fifty!]] The opposition is unworthy [[Joy in the Chamber]] She tried to use the protest of people with disabilities. [[Game in the O.R.]] I believe deeply that Poles saw this hypocrisy of the opposition. They saw that they were not interested in the fate of these people, but only on their shoulders... [[A voice from the hall: Now put your money away!]] ...they're trying to raise political capital, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] To return to power. After all, this is all they want, and the initiation of political, tedious Polish brooks, including the use of abroad, are trying to cover up their unideosity, programmed emptiness and incompetence. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at recent developments in the European Parliament, when the MEPs voted in favour of adopting unfavourable solutions for posted workers for Poland, and then covered themselves with a mistake, I would like to believe that this is just incompetence. Law and Justice is politically responsible today for the fact that these people will never decide the fate of Poles again. We need faith, endurance, and consequences in action. It takes humility for us to never lose touch with an ordinary man. Let us recall how our predecessors feared that nothing could be done, that we would run out of money for our promises. We conducted Poles, but for this voice to reach, we needed hundreds of talks, meetings and faith that we could change Poland. Over a year ago, I asked Mr. Schetyna four simple questions, including one about the 500+ program. Your position on this matter has changed ever since. And that's what we're different about - credibility. [[You weren't listening.]] And that's what we're different about. You guys change your mind all the time, and then you do things differently than you promised. We keep our word and today our government is doing what we promised in the campaign. [[Disabled people in particular.]] Therefore, my club, the Law and Justice Club, rejects the motion for a vote of distrust towards Prime Minister Beata Szydło and considers him to be both absurd and completely unjustified. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u259	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u260	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are once again debating a vote of distrust towards Mrs. Beata Szydło. In December Ub. R. it worked. Member Jarosław Kaczyński [[Applause]] he saw a number of incompetences between Mrs Szydło and removed her from the chair of the President of the Council of Ministers. I hope it's gonna be the same this time. I hope, after 40 days of contempt, the Prime Minister, whom you expressed. practically every step, day by day towards people with disabilities and their families, Jarosław Kaczyński, today managing from hospital bed, will remove you from the deputy prime minister's chair. It doesn't matter how he does it. It doesn't matter if he's gonna make you, his subordinates, defend the Vice Prime Minister, hand her flowers, kiss her hand, and then tonight he's gonna give you Beata, you're out. Never mind. You can do the same thing in December. It is important that this incompetent person does not serve as Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs. With all due respect, Mrs. Beato. You're not fit for this function either. During your exposé, you said: Humility, work, moderation, discretion in action and responsibility, and above all listening to citizens are the principles that we will follow. So? Nothing. Empty words. No humility, no work of dubious quality, no moderation, no discretion in action and no responsibility either. Listening to citizens? You don't listen to anybody. You don't listen to the citizens. You do not listen to the Church whose authority you repeatedly invoke. You don't listen to the great Poles, the authorities of our time. You even care about Lech Kaczyński's views, whose monuments you put on every corner. [[Voice from the room: Piss off Lech Kaczyński.]] That's hypocrisy. The Bible Pharisees in front of you are nothing. [[Applause]] Another quote, ladies and gentlemen: Our lives are made up of small things and these little everyday things of my fellow countrymen I want to serve because I know perfectly well that there are no great achievements and successes without these little daily steps. Remember, the sum of small things creates great things. So? Nothing. Empty words. For over two and a half years, you haven't been able to solve small cases of people with disabilities and their families. But in a year you passed over PLN 650 million, which the Civic Platform guaranteed in the state budget as additional funds... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...for these people. [[It's a lie.]] Another quote: It is the duty of every authority to listen to and serve citizens because we are called to do so. We are called to serve, we are called upon to solve the problems of our fellow citizens who entrust us with this mandate. So? Nothing. [[Voice from the hall: Gawłowski.]] Another empty word. Your service is about giving your friends, colleagues and yourself gigantic prizes. How do you say that? I mean, they belonged to us. [[Applause]] What about people with disabilities? [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Who was responsible.]] Where's the money? Where's the 650 million we left in the budget? [[Voice from the room: Exactly - where?]] Next quote: I want to emphasize strongly, we will talk directly to society. We'll talk to the Poles like we talked about in the campaign. Dialogue and cooperation are a prerequisite for achieving the tasks that Poles have set before us. We will talk, listen, and most importantly, we will hear what the Poles say to us. And I want to be clear: we're gonna do this. [[Voice from the O.R.: Finally.]] Those are your words. So? Nothing. [[The voice from the hall: And they fled!]] Another empty word. We're gonna talk, we're gonna listen, and most importantly, we're gonna hear. Yeah, I'm sure. It reminds me of your slogan: "Meet me on the way." In what way? During the Danube rafting? [[Applause]] Is that where you wanted to talk to people with disabilities and their families? On a flosack boat, you wanted to have a dialogue about their problems? It's a joke, Prime Minister. And one last quote from you. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] This time from the election campaign, which was organized for you on 8 August 2015 in Stalowa Wola: Power must be credible. How do you believe a prime minister who claims otherwise just because there's an election campaign and then something else happens? Remember the disabled, the carers of the disabled. It was declared, it was said: we will help you. Today, the dignity of these people is valued in Poland at PLN 520 per month. Today, the rulers lacked time to lean on this problem. Mrs. Beato, how can you lie like that? [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] The Civic Platform and PSL government has gradually increased benefits for people with disabilities of their families. [[Lie!]] It is our government that has increased the value of caring for parents who have resigned to take care of their underage children by more than 300%. It was the government of the Civic Platform at the end of its term that left PLN 650 million to raise further benefits. [[Another lie!]] Why didn't this money go to the people they were meant for? What did you do with that money? Ladies and gentlemen! How do you believe Beata Szydło, who in the election campaign declared support for people with disabilities, and after winning the elections she passed the money away? How do you believe the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs, who rather than meeting protesters for 40 days in the Seym, prefers to swim in the Danube? How do I believe her? Cancel it now or, as in December, tonight. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u261	Thank you, sir. Mr Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! The Kukiz Club15 did not want this debate, did not want a political debate and did not want this person with disabilities, including those who protested in the Sejm. Really, Prime Minister, the Kukiz club asked you 15 months ago to draw up reliable information about the state of work, the reforms you want to carry out, to inform politicians, to inform the public, to inform the environment of people with disabilities, what plans you have, what you want to do with the reform of case law, what you want to do with reforms of social assistance institutions, with PFRON. You didn't answer that. You prefer the political debate, you prefer the war we have here every time to tell ourselves - we've done so much, and we've spent so much money, and we've spent so much money. Something is wrong, Prime Minister, because we still have 8 million Poles who live in extreme poverty, and every third of them is a disabled person. There's something wrong with this policy. Prime Minister! I really can't understand why we're discussing politically again. Do any of the options... And the applicants have something to accuse themselves of, and the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, and the state as a government, you also have something to hit your chest, also in the context of this protest of people with disabilities. Those words haven't been said at all. None of you have told me what you haven't done. What didn't you do? You tell me all the time what you spent your money on. There is no point in focusing and judging on this, because spending money, ladies and gentlemen, is not a measure that this money is spent well, because there are still groups of people who expect it, we still have the same problems. I would like to know how it is, Prime Minister, that 71 billion - that is what you say on your websites - you spend on Polish families, since we still have 8 million people living in poverty, because that is the data of the CSO and the Institute of Social Affairs. So how do you spend your money? If you spent it on those families that need it, these people, each of them would receive 8800 zlotys, which is theoretically no poverty. [[Voice from the hall: What was the poverty?]] There's something wrong with managing this money in institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, for 30 years, we have really had a social assistance system, a system of labour market institutions and all systems that fit in the departments that are under ladies' jurisdiction, Minister Rafalska and Prime Minister, are actually unreformable. The structure of social problems has changed, unemployment has changed, many things have changed, and in fact every government gives one prescription - we will establish a new institution, we will throw a few pennies in there. By the way, in this new institution a few people will work and somehow these problems will resolve. Well, they don't work out, ladies and gentlemen, they really don't work out. As long as we don't put that money in there, it's gonna look bad all the time, like we saw in the hallway. There will still be groups who expect something. Because, in fact, social justice, Prime Minister, because you have spoken a lot about it here, is to first secure resources for those who need it very much, to divide them into basic needs of life, for example. they sought and then only shared these resources, as they already are, for other needs, for higher needs, for higher needs, for those who do not need it at all. There is no such coherent policy. You're not proposing it, at least you're not talking about it. That is why we requested this debate. Ladies and gentlemen! We have so many institutions. I'm going back to the disabled. Imagine that there are 11 places for disabled people to turn to. I've counted 11 institutions they have to go to. These are the institutions that have grown over the years. PFRON is at the level of voivodship, seymists, voivodships, is in the PCPRs. We have labour market institutions that are also fragmented. There are various officials working there. This disabled person elsewhere has to get proof, a parking card, somewhere else he has to come in to get a pension, somewhere else he has to get other items. It's crazy, isn't it? You can't set up new institutions every time, and every time you hire people, you say you solve a problem. We can't get that far. How many of these people we wouldn't hire in these institutions, they turn into officials who, instead of really helping people just and simply write out new decisions, paperwork. You are referring to European examples. Take a look at the various examples. Take a look at how the problem of these systems has been solved in Slovakia, how social problems are solved in other countries, really effectively, directing money where they are needed, individually, for the needs of people who need it rather than wholesale by different institutions. I don't have time to refer to other forms anymore. I have only one question, Prime Minister: Why have you chosen a political debate again rather than a substantive one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you want to talk substantively, just politically? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u263	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u264	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I don't think anyone in the history of the Polish Sejm has mentioned the word "Berlin" as many times as you have. I don't know if it's a matter of some kind of complex or that you worked at a Spanish bank, and now you want to wash it off. [[Applause]] But it's not about you today. [[Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: How long have you thought about this?]] Today of a great absence, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Today - surprise - the Prime Minister is with us, but she was long gone. Lady Prime Minister's last activity was a cry from this Seymary that these prizes belonged to us. The last activity of the Prime Minister was a call to you, Members and Members of the PiS, because not to us, to the opposition: for what do you want to appeal me for? Well, after a few days, you canceled it, and you can see it was for what it was for. There's more and more evidence. [[Applause]] But you're a great absentee, Prime Minister. Because where were you during the 40 days of the dramatic protest? At party rallies, telling the story - quote: My name is Szydło, Beata Szydło and I will listen to people. We'll talk. We will be wherever there is a discussion about Poland. The time of celebrity politicians is over? [[Voice from the room: Yes it is all the time.]] Only this debate about Poland took place here for 40 days, and you weren't there. [[Applause]] You were in Zakopane, where you praised the councillors of the municipality of Zakopane for not implementing the law on domestic violence. Is that something to be proud of, Prime Minister? Do you know that it is estimated that three women die from domestic violence a week? And you praise that? This is disgusting, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame! Shame!]] You were a great absentee, great absent during 40 days of dramatic protest... [[Voice from the room: Woman...]] ...a great absence when Adrian and Cuba asked for your help, a great absence, when hundreds, thousands of people in a heartbeat supported this protest in the goodness of their hearts, a great absence when your friends and party colleagues said: take it out and hand it over to the police - your party friend Stanisław Pieta... [[Voice from the room: Friday!]] ...they are not partners for me to talk to - your party friend Bernadette Krynick, parents protesting in the Seym treat children as hostages and live shields and they cannot be given money because they may be degenerates - your friend Jacek Żalek. You were very absent when we discussed your vote of distrust at the session of the Sejm committee, and your colleagues insulted the mothers protesting in the Sejm. But they weren't there, and they couldn't defend themselves. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] You're the one who should stand up for them. [[Applause]] Where have you been all this time, Prime Minister? You said we would listen to our citizens, serve them because we are called to do so. Did you know that Cuba has been to a doctor and that she has an appointment with an ophthalmologist for 2021? Is this listening to people, Prime Minister? You should burn yourself out of shame for not having time for protesters, [[Applause]] for lack of empathy, for lack of action, for lack of solidarity, for lack of human instinct. You should burn out of shame for your colleagues, for Marshal Kuchciński, who is a member of your party, in which you are Vice President, for locking the Sejm in front of Mrs Janina Ochojska, before Mrs Wanda Traczyk-Stawska, for banning walks, opening windows. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] That's your responsibility. [[Applause]] You were Prime Minister, you're Deputy Prime Minister, you're the head of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers, and you should be on the side of those who are calling for help. We all know that - we know that, President Kaczyński knows that, Prime Minister Morawicki knows that, and Minister Rafalska, and Members of the PiS, and you know that too - you simply can't do anything. Everybody knows that. [[Applause]] You in this government are here to be, because there was no idea what to do with you. [[Applause]] You can't do anything, but that's not the worst part. The worst part is, you're not even trying to show that it's different that you might want something. [[Voice from the room: And this is what a woman says to a woman.]] You're all screaming that you don't want to, and you can't, and you just deserve your job and your money. This was the last chance... [[Enough of this nonsense.]] ...to show that you really want and mean something... [[Embarrassing.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Finish.]] ...to show human decency and heart. And don't tell us eight years, because you're in charge... [[Voice from the room: This is the country.]] ...it's your responsibility, and you haven't done anything in the last few months. [[Voice from the Chamber: Party of one term.]] You did: you showed me that you couldn't do anything. So if you're unnecessary in this government and you feel that way, then why bother? Treasury companies are opening up. Money bigger, problems less. We support the proposal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Go to the black march.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u265	At the moment, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister wondered who would stand here and talk about family policy. I'm the one who's gonna tell you who's not gonna stand here because you forgot about them. It's not gonna be $350,000. The families that fell out of the 500+ program. They will not become mothers who have exceeded the income threshold by PLN 6 and who have been deprived of 500+. There will not be farmers who, contrary to what the Prime Minister is saying, simply lying from this speaker, have raised your retirement age by five years. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There will be good hosts on this platform who, through your inability, have lost their farms because the ASF is spilling all over the country. Neither will the chiefs, because theirs... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: To the theatre.]] ...you sent them to assess the damage, so they don't care about the small local communities because you took their time. Neither will retired people because you gave them the lowest possible valorization of PLN 5 a year ago. In 2012, we gave the highest, not you, amounting to PLN 71, was 8 billion for valorization. Prime Minister! You may have forgotten, but you have to remind me. It's been bad for eight years, so shameful. Then why were you Tusk's advisor for eight years and it was etched on his business card? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He forgot how a calf he was. That's what it looks like. You are today a great advocate of family policy. You don't know anything about it, and you may not know that the "Milch" and "Senior" programme were in the previous term. You just added a plus to it, and it's all yours. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: We gave more money.]] You're saying that the people of this country can't believe that we want to cancel Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Deputy Prime Minister of this government. But you canceled Prime Minister Szydło and her entire government. [[Applause]] [[And they took the money.]] In gratitude? That was your thanks? And you, as the communal news brings, have made a significant contribution to this. Ladies and gentlemen! Reliability. There was a lot about that, too. Reliable Prime Minister Szydło was at one point when to her government colleague, she said to the Minister of Digitization: You know that political decisions are made elsewhere. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No wonder she didn't come to the protesters for 40 days. [[Applause]] Why would she come? If she couldn't do anything as Prime Minister, then as Deputy Prime Minister who has a clean card... What were the actions of Deputy Prime Minister Szydło for six months? It's a tabula breed. There is no competence, no ministry, no action, no decision, no help for others. [[Applause]] [[And there's a limo...]] There's a lifeboat. My dears, this is a lifeboat, for the unbaptized: Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs. And that's the whole truth. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: And he has a limo!]] Where's the credibility? Politics has to be different, it's... [[Voice from the room: Bury!]] Oh, you're screaming again, Bury! Bury could be the president's cat. [[Applause]] Question: "What about Rooster?" [[Joy in the Chamber]] Reliability. What you're saying. Yeah, politics has to be different. The policy of bonuses and rewards for this government is completely different. Rewards for yourself, rewards for yours, rewards for yours. [[Applause]] In fact, Prime Minister, you forgot about one group who would be happy to stand on this platform, would have surrounded the whole room. A group of its own: thousands of councillors, millions of companies of the Treasury, supervisory boards. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] That's the truth. With these screams, you will not drown out the whispers of your conscience. [[Applause]] [[You have 3%.]] What about credibility? Come on. The issue of compensation for farmers needs to be addressed. It cannot be that Polish farmers have different, worse financial conditions than farmers in the countries of the European Union. [[Voice from the O.R.: We fix it after you.]] Not only will you not double these subsidies, you will not equal them, but they will be reduced by your inability, through this chariot charge of Prime Minister Szydło to Brussels - 27:1 - reduced. Then you were so brave that you voted against the Poles. [[Applause]] You want to cooperate? I'd love to. How many times did the Prime Minister invite opposition clubs to meetings, to cooperate? How did the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs vote on a non-tax pension? No, no, no, no, no, Reduction, retirement age for farmers? No, no, no, no, no, An hour for the family? Against... No, I'm sorry, she didn't vote here. 500+ availability for farmers? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She didn't vote twice. These are our concrete proposals that you rejected. And last but not least, Prime Minister. Patriotism neither me nor any of us will be taught by a man who's been on international finance for years. [[Applause]] You're the one who checked in. in the capitals of Europe and reported. Not us. We vote in favour of dismissing Prime Minister Szydło because there are no...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u267	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u268	...competence and not meeting expectations. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u269	At the moment, Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a non-member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a few questions for you. Think about how to answer them. How was the Danube? Was there a sun? Or was the view breathtaking? [[A game show or what?]] Was there nice company and fresh air? May 2018 Mrs. Beata Szydło might find it successful? I wanted to remind you that while you were enjoying your activities on the Danube, not far from here, here, at 68 m2 protested the people who were waiting for you. [[The voice from the room: But you invited it.]] Another day they spent at the protest in this building: Anna Glinka, Adrian Glinka, Iwona Hartwich, Jakub Hartwich, Katarzyna and Karol Milewicz with their daughters Magda and Victoria, Alicia Jochymek, King Jochymek and Aneta Rzepka. They were here begging for 500 zlotys. They slept on the floor. They only had one shower. All the time, there was a camera of your government TV, TVP Info. [[Voice from the room: A TVN?]] And I'm sure their mayor wasn't, Prime Minister, very successful. Explain to us who the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs is, with one disdainful look, is killing people. Yeah, it was. People were calling you, protestors were calling you. What did you do? She looked down on them. You showed your face crooked with a ghastly face. Madam Vice Prime Minister for Social Affairs, will you tell us what you do in this government? Because at first glance, Prime Minister, it's nothing. What are you taking money for? It seems that the biggest and most prominent pathology of this government is the person of your Deputy Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers - your person. You found yourself in this position after spectacular degradation from the position of prime minister. If someone isn't the prime minister, how can he be the deputy prime minister? This is a very bad idea. And Jarosław Kaczyński knew that. 'Cause if it wasn't, he'd give you some kind of resort. He didn't give it to you because you were a lousy prime minister and you're a lousy vice prime minister. You have been appointed to this position to create the social policy of the state. You don't do that at all. You only deal with the protection and defence of the high bonuses you've granted yourself, at the rate of 60,000, and your government's leave. And in your spare time, you're swimming in the Danube. Don't nod your head, because it's true. Minister, before you ask me again what you're calling me off for, I'm in a hurry to answer. Prime Minister, for your 40 days as Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs, she has done nothing to solve the problems of the protesters in any way. In every European country, a civilised country of politicians should resign in the face of such embarrassment. Just do it or go on with the Danube. And to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, what you said here today... You know, I've never heard such lies in my life. Do you know who you are after that speech today? Pinocchio of Polish politics. That's how you lied here and lied. [[Applause]] Pinocchio of Polish politics - remember this. And to make things interesting, someone wanted to tell you something. Jakub Hartwich. Jacob, your voice. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus makes it possible to speak to Jakub Hartwich on the phone: I would like to say something to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, please, Prime Minister, don't lie to me. We still have $900 for life, not $3,000. Stop lying...]] Thank you, Cuba. You heard him, so stop lying. Prime Minister, just resign because it's a shame, a shame for all people who care about people with disabilities. Shame! [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u271	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-member, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! I will vote in favour of this proposal for one fundamental reason. The social policy of this government in the most important area, in an area that determines our future, is fatal and is a breach of those promises, thanks to which you won the 2015 elections. And it is a social policy in the field of immigration, in terms of changing the population that is taking place in Poland. The state, Law and Justice, deceived Poles. In 2015, you went to the 'Stop' elections for immigrants. Remember that? The 6 000 promised by the European Union by the Platform. Since 2.5 years you have brought to the country, opened borders, your voivods have made positive decisions for hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and tens of thousands of Asians. Last year I would have left Poland only and only on the Islands 20,000. Poles. During this time, a change of population is being made, under your rule. You have deceived Poles in this area and you are walking exactly the way Western Europe is going. If I hear today that there's no problem, because people are coming to work, and they're supposed to be from relocation, that's absurd. It's not what the Poles are saying. The Poles did not argue only against the mechanism of relocation. They argued against bringing hundreds of thousands of visitors from outside Poland. They voted in the elections for Poland to be Polish, exactly so, and not for it to be Asian, Ukrainian, African or any other. You broke your birthday promises from the election. If we are to compare the numbers, these several thousand, this was supposed to be the amount for relocation, then only Indians came to Poland last year, in 2017, 8 thousand arrived in Poland. You don't believe me? Then go out on the streets of Warsaw, see what it looks like. And see how from year to year, as from month to month, it turns to bad. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the most important challenge of civilization, economic, political, and security challenges of Poland in the coming decades - not to go through this multicultural swamp in which the West lies. Unfortunately, the PiS is going this way. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Morawiecki announces that there will be more and more immigrants. He is even talking about bringing immigrants to Poland, arguing this with demographic change, an ageing population. Firstly, I draw attention to the powerful Japanese economy and to the very restrictive Japanese migration policy in the context of such a rapidly ageing society. Pay attention to that. Why? Because the Japanese are smart, because the most important thing for them is cultural, ethnic, religious cohesion of their society. It's a determinant for them. How's the growth today? GDP in Poland? GDP growth in Poland is such that German, French companies or international banks, which Mr Mateusz Morawiecki gave, for example. JP Morgan 20 million PLN for encouragement, here in Poland, have profits that Ukrainians or Asians, Indians have jobs and 20,000. The Poles are going to the Islands. And Mr. Mateusz Morawicki has posts. This is economic growth in Poland today. That's what he looks like. These are not stable foundations. Why are the Poles leaving? 'Cause there's low wages. And why are there low wages? Because there's a cheap labor force, there's an influx of cheap labour, just like that. That's why wages don't grow. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What nonsense.]] And why are Polish entrepreneurs still uphill? Not only because you are not properly reforming countries in this area, but also because international corporations are constantly throwing away, colloquially speaking, Polish entrepreneurs from the market. This is the reality, with all the effort, with all the propaganda, with the hard declaration: no immigrants. Look at the numbers. You have already exceeded ten times in one year the number of non-European immigrants in Poland in relation to what she declared, as promised by the Platform of the Union. You have deceived Poles because in this most important matter, which is for the next decades for Poland and Poles, you are acting in a harmful way. I will vote in favour of this and in favour of any other request to dismiss the minister of this government, because this government harms Poles on the most fundamental issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u273	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. At the moment, I would ask the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There's discipline.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, in a few sentences, to refer to the conclusion that you have submitted, although there are few facts in it... [[Voice from the room: At all.]] ...and there aren't many substantive threads in it, there's more, I think, populism. But since this request has been made, it is a good opportunity, and among others. This is what I want to talk about to say about what Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice has done, has done, and will do what they will do when it comes to social policy. [[40 days.]] I think this is also a good opportunity to ask you a few questions from the opposition, the authors of this proposal, to remind you what social policy was like in the state of government. [[Voice from the room: For the last eight years.]] Since you have appealed to these nearly 3 years of our governments, it is worth asking what ceiling we were running from, taking over the power in Poland for you, and what the situation is now. There are deeds and facts behind Law and Justice that you will not scream. On the other hand, it is worth asking yourself what you are doing, because, as has already been said here, the Prime Minister has also mentioned it in vain today to look for draft laws, substantive proposals from your own social policy side. You are very happy to take care of Law and Justice. Law and Justice deals with the interests of Poles and Poles... [[Voice from the room: Especially disabled.]] [[Especially those who protested.]] ...you take care of us. [[Applause]] But it is nothing new, because during your reigns you were also dealing primarily with us. I think it's really not much that's changed here, and it's important to remember what your governments looked like. So I'll remind you. The debt of the state, the selling out of everything that could be done, and when there was no money, you reached for the savings of Poles from OFE - this is what it looked like in your rule. [[Applause]] Here's another question. Whose business are you really representing when you're still so angry at us? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] You're attacking us furiously... [[What about the disabled, Prime Minister? That's what we're interested in. What do you have for the disabled?]] ...because you're afraid of the government of law and justice. The question is whose interests you represent, because we represent the interests of Poles and for Poles we work. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Especially disabled people.]] [[But Poles want to know what you will do for people with disabilities.]] Another question. You're talking about people with disabilities today. This is one of the most important topics, a discussion that we should be discussing here, in this Chamber, in the Sejm, primarily with seriousness and full respect for these people. Has respect for these people been expressed by my previous speakers in this pulpit? What have you been presenting here, Mr. Messengers? [[You don't respect them, you don't even talk to them.]] [[What do you want to do for them as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for disabled people?]] Should it be that people with disabilities are used cynically in political games? [[Voice from the room: And in 2014 who did it?]] Is this the way it's supposed to be? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Don't be ridiculous, really.]] It is hypocritical of you to say that the Government of Law and Justice is disdainful of this environment that it has done nothing. We are the most pro-social government after the transformation in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Keep telling yourselves that.]] [[Voice from the room: words, words, words.]] You know that, and that's what you're afraid of. That's what you're afraid of. [[Applause]] So let me ask you, this is another question: What have you done for this environment? [[I want you to answer the question.]] [[But what do you want to do?]] What have you done not to divide the disabled environment? [[They protested. What did the Prime Minister do?]] What have you done to actually implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2014? [[What did the Prime Minister do for 40 days?]] I will ask: Who was the Prime Minister in 2014, who created the government? [[Voice from the hall: Who kissed their hands?]] Also tell us why the Constitutional Tribunal issued such a judgment. Because you've divided the environment of the disabled. We have to sort it out today, we have to make your mistakes right. [[Voice from the room: 3 years.]] [[Voice from the room: Money is left, Prime Minister.]] Finally, I will ask a very difficult question, but I have decided to put it; especially the last two speeches by the ladies The messenger encouraged me to do so. So let me ask you this, ladies and gentlemen: Is there a credible politician and can you believe a politician who, on one day on the street during a black march, demands the killing of unborn children with disabilities, and on the other day he calls their protector here in the Seym? Can such politicians be trusted? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Manipulation.]] [[Is it possible to encourage domestic violence as you do?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2015, the Council The Poles entrusted the Government of Law and Justice. They chose Law and Justice, because they were primarily included in their social programme of Law and Justice, because this program was born at meetings when we were talking, listening to people, about their problems... [[A voice from the hall: You have granted yourselves prizes.]] ...when people reminded us and said, it was also from this speaker: Poor in Poland has a child's face, we have increased our retirement age without our consent, we will work until death, we lack money for everything, and young people leave. [[What's for the disabled? What are you doing as head of the committee?]] I will remind you of the thousands of unemployed people who lost their jobs in small and larger cities because you sold out or closed down Polish companies. We're here to remind you of the mines, the shipyards... [[Voice from the room: Bumper.]] ...to talk about all that was supposed to be social policy? It's social policy, too. [[Applause]] May I remind you how in 2015, when we were talking from this speaker about a program that we want to implement in the next 100 days, about the 500+ programme, pro-family, prodemographic, screaming, mocking at this program? Today, for this programme, you want to call off the best Minister of Labour and Social Policy after 1989. [[Applause]] I mean, it's psychic. [[Voice from the room: Not for this program. What are you talking about?]] [[What did the Prime Minister do with her disability?]] Those were the reasons for your request. Who do you want to cancel? Elizabeth Rafalska... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the hall: Lady!]] ...which led to the fact that today we can be proud of the social policy of the Polish government. [[What have you been doing for 40 days?]] [[Voice from the hall: What have you done for the disabled?]] We are being shown as an example in Europe. That is the policy of the Law and Justice Government. You're hurting me. You can't give any legitimate facts. [[What's for the disabled?]] That's why you say things that are just psychic. You're political hypocrites, you're just political hypocrites. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[The Himalayas of hypocrisy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government of law and justice consistently for nearly three years... [[He doesn't do anything for the disabled.]] ...realizes a social policy that is focused on solving very complicated problems that have been accumulated for many, many years and for which no government, including the government of PSL and Platform, has done anything to solve them. These are, of course, the environments of people with disabilities, which we are mostly leaning over today. [[What does the social committee do?]] [[What did you do for the disabled?]] We were supposed to talk about this in this debate. You ask what we've done for the disabled. [[For the disabled. Exactly. You'll tell me.]] Let me give you one example. I'm going to ask you how much the social pension has increased under the Platform and the PSL. I'll tell you, about 6%. In less than three years of government... [[What did you do for the disabled?]] ... Laws and Justice nearly 40%. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's the difference. [[Applause]] Do you remember what happened when the program was adopted, the groundbreaking program that is aimed at... [[What have you done for adults with disabilities?]] ... e.g. to the environments of people with disabilities and their families, the program for the life you despised, the one you laughed at and voted against. So where's the sensitivity of the Platform, the PSL and the Modern? Where's your sensitivity? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where have you been for 40 days?]] You're all in favour of solving... [[What about the hospice money?]] ...the problems of people with disabilities, or just that you want cynically... [[A voice from the room: Try to find your sensitivity.]] ...use the situation of those who are in a really difficult situation for their political games? We don't agree to this, and we won't allow it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to be very clear... [[And you're extremely calm today.]] ...that today Poland is in the first place in the European Union among the countries that reduce poverty as quickly as possible. This is the result of the rule of law and justice. Today Polish children do not have to be hungry, today Polish children can enjoy that with their parents... [[What have you done for the disabled, for Adrian and Cuba?]] ...they can go away very often for the first time on vacation, and parents don't have to worry that they won't be able to afford to equip their children for school. That's what we're different about. We're talking about Poles... [[And Adrian and Cuba aren't Poles?]] ...and you guys are throwing political shows to make a row again. Street, overseas. What other ideas are there gonna be? [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] [[Voice from the room: This is your idea.]] We encourage you to cooperate, we encourage you to finally bring us a project that we will be able to work on. [[The projects lie down.]] Let it be a project that will help people with disabilities. [[Voice from the courtroom: You'll settle yourself.]] As far as case law is concerned, today we have a great debate on developments in case law. Join us. [[Voice from the room: Projects are complex.]] You know perfectly well that in order to really fix the system, and we want to do this, we want to do it and we will do it because we keep our word to solve the problem of people with disabilities, we need to do it systematically and we need to change case law. I invite you to this work, I invite you to this debate. Sit with us, with the environments of people with disabilities. [[Voice from the room: But you were gone for 40 days.]] [[You're welcome, and then you're welcome.]] Let's do it together and show... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...that in this most sensitive case, in the case of the most... [[Voice from the room: We wanted to, but you weren't there.]] ...the affected group of people who are disabled, their families, we can unite. Let's do it together. [[Why didn't you come to the disabled?]] I think it's especially important this year. [[A voice from the room: Really?]] [[Voice from the hall: These are empty words.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Poles deserve a decent life. [[You could have told them that.]] Poles deserve to feel safe in their country, regardless of where they live, who they are, what their social status is, where and what opportunities they have for their development. [[But not all of them, because the protesters didn't come to you.]] They deserve to have a country that takes care of them, which helps them, especially the weakest one, whenever they need it... [[What about helping Cuba and Adrian?]] ...and for there to be politicians who here in Parliament solve their problems... [[Voice from the room: Take the melissa.]] ...representing their interests, their affairs, not merely political performances to last from election to election. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time there is a government in Poland, which is a government of ordinary Polish citizens... [[Applause]] [[And before that, who was he? Frases.]] ...and the Law and Justice will keep their commitments. We're gonna make all these changes... [[Words, words, words. Where are the actions?]] ...the reforms that we have committed ourselves to, which we have declared, in this we will lead to the fact that the disabled environment will not be divided, that they will all be equally, equally treated, that they will have all the help that we have shown during this protest of the parents of the disabled here in the Sejm. A very rapid response from the Prime Minister, the government, two laws prepared and adopted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Today we kept our word... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And where were you?]] ...on such short notice. Now we're gonna take the next step... [[Voice from the room: 40 days.]] ...and we'll keep our word. [[Applause]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes when you prepare such proposals... I understand that this is a policy, a motion for a vote of distrust is a political proposal, a state as an opposition you have the right to make it, to say different things, just to not exceed a certain limit of impudence, but not to exceed the limit of humiliating others. [[Oh...]] Let's show in this Seym once... [[Someone called you German?]] ...in this debate about people with disabilities... [[They've just been humiliated by you.]] ...that Polish parliamentarians from all sides... [[Did someone tell you you have a capital in Berlin?]] ...they can talk in substance. On the other hand, if you do not want to take part in this work, at least vote in favour of the changes that we will propose, because they will be changes that the environment of people with disabilities expects. [[Voice from the hall: Lies, lies, lies.]] Thank you very much for all your votes. Thank you very much for those votes, which were substantive. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Marshal Mazurek. But thank you also, because once again, I think, Poles had... [[You taught me a lesson in humility.]] ...a good opportunity to hear what the government has done... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice, when it comes to social policy, and they also had the opportunity to hear how helpless she is... [[...you are Prime Minister Beata Szydło.]] ...I don't want to use that word, but if I wasn't in Parliament, I'd probably use the word "hopeless" -- but I won't use the word "hopeless" -- opposition. So I'm going to talk about how helpless the opposition is. Unfortunately, this opposition does not think at all about their affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u275	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Rafalska (Prints No. 2496 and 2569). I ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, to present the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! But first, Deputy Prime Minister, if I were you, I wouldn't ask from this place, from this Parliamentary Speaker, for which you want to cancel Minister Rafalska. You've screamed once before: why do you want to call me off!? And the president canceled tonight. [[Applause]] [[It's already been done.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] That too. The government, at its own request, organized a protest action. It's your fault there are sick children and parents of disabled children in the halls of the Seym today. It is your really irresponsible, unthinkable policy towards people with disabilities today that results in such social sentiments and such emotions - said Elżbieta Rafalska, then spokesperson of the opposition. This quote best shows how much hypocrisy is in you, Minister. Because as friends get to know in poverty, that's how the minister gets to know in crisis. Let's see how you behaved. When I prepared for this speech, I asked if you were incompetent. No, you're calculating, Minister. And it's even more moving. [[Applause]] How many calculations must be in you when first... [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] ...you're trying to lure the protesters out... [[Voice from the room: End of dictatorship.]] ...to another building so they can't go back to the Sejm. And if you fail to do so, you yourself write the text of the agreement, you call the assistant of Prime Minister Morawiecki's father and sign it with her in the light of the cameras. And representatives of other disabled organisations invited by you must attend the conference and say with regret: We have been exploited and deceived by Minister Rafalska. How long does it take to calculate to humiliate, humiliate, and disrupt the environment of people with disabilities? Or come to them for conversations and yell at them? You screamed at them: the minister has his dignity. You already showed your dignity when you hugged 70,000. zł reward. [[Applause]] And you have the audacity to yell at those disabled people of dignity? Many of us remember the 2014 protest. Do you remember any of you screaming at the children of the disabled Minister Kosiniak? Then you and the government spokesperson held a press conference in the Seym. As soon as your mother was approached by people with disabilities, the ladies fled from them in fear in the seym hallway. It's all recorded, Minister. And he'll be a living monument to your office forever. We couldn't lure you into another building, we couldn't sell this set-up agreement nicely, we couldn't get away from our mothers either, they caught up. So you finally had to come up with a proposal. And that's when you gave these people the biggest slap. You offered them 500 zlotys in diapers. [[Voice from the room: That's not the conclusion.]] Why? So there's no abuse, so moms don't huff that money... [[It's a good thing it's not in the tires for the car.]] ...so that, God forbid, they don't go to the movies. [[Shame!]] You gave Jack Kursk in cash, Father Rydzyk - in cash, and finally you gave your own prizes in cash. Why didn't you take your 70,000... [[In diapers.]] ...in soap and toilet paper? [[Applause]] It's gonna come in handy in every house. [[That's right, bravo!]] Where is the limit of your calculation, Minister? You took 70,000. cash. Let us only mention a few of your Members' statements about the parents of the disabled. Mr Stanisław Pieta, today a symbol of the hypocrisy of moral Law and Justice, who said that the Marshal's Guard should carry out the disabled and hand over the police. The famous Member... [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: What about your morality?]] ... Bernadette Krynick, who said that... [[Where are they?]] ...disabled parents' protest is a circus and would find a paragraph on them. And a Member or Professor Pavłowicz, who said that the stench was rising. But the worst part was what he spit together... [[Shame. Shame.]] ...with his venom, Mr Zalek, saying that the parents of people with disabilities are degenerates. These are your colleagues, Minister. They humiliated... [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] ...poor people. [[Disgraceful.]] It's been days. Are you the face of social policy... [[It's really embarrassing. It's awful how you act like that.]] ...and a good change came out and said publicly: I condemn the words of Pieta, Krynicka, Pawłowicz, am I sorry for them? No. You didn't say anything. This is your disgrace. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I remember two scenes, Minister. The first time in 2014 you and President Kaczyński were glowing in the light of cameras among protesters. You patted them on their backs and, as mothers remember today, whispered in their ear, vote for me, vote for the Law and Justice. Even then, as it turns out, you were cynical. And the second scene, when you run away from protesting mothers who call for you, "Don't leave us, Minister." And what do you tell them, turning your back on them? I've had enough excitement. It's unbelievable. Well, how could you condemn Żelka, Krynicka or the Five when you're exactly the same? You're talking about Prime Minister Tusk, Minister Kosiniak and that... [[Don't moralize me, Member.]] ...protest. They were here on the second day of the protest. The final part of that action was to meet the protesters' demands. Money in hand for your parents and a bill. Later, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed to unequal treatment of guardians. And what did we do then? We left $657 million in the budget for the parents who are protesting today. I'm asking you what you did with the money. [[Applause]] What did you spend 657 million on? Of course, except for the 70,000 you took for yourself. Because we already know that. What did you do with all that money? Did you hand over to Prime Minister Gliński for a deal with the Czartoryskis? [[Or maybe?]] [[Mr. Mosiński, keep your mouth shut.]] Minister Macierewicz for new Smolensk legends? Tell me where the money is. Because we're all curious, and mostly parents with disabilities. Then you disappeared and let Marshal Kuchciński do his job. You let me cut off the disabled showers, elevators, fresh air. Finally, you kept your mouth shut when the Marshal's Guard's aggressors robbed their mothers of what their disabled children were looking at. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful. Shame.]] Why didn't you defend these women? Why didn't you go after them? Or have you developed your own mind, the Minister has his dignity for the words "disabled people have no dignity"? But your harmful actions aren't just your attitude towards the disabled. All this time, in colloquial terms, you've been riding on the 500+ program's myth, basically, I gave you 500+, so back off. But if you spread your policy into factors one at a time, you'll find that it's so-called. Pic for water, photomontage. You took 70,000.? Well, let's see what it's for. [[How's your husband's invoices?]] The first 10,000. You took it as a 500-plus defect. First of all, for the scandalous exclusion from this program of single parents, mostly mothers. At that time the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, today Deputy Marshal Beata Mazurek, humiliated them, saying that she would advise them to get their lives together so that they could have more children. [[Six million, transfers, invoices, let's start with each other.]] However, it is not surprising, since the Minister herself admitted in one of the interviews that single mothers are non-developmental. In the election campaign you said: 500 PLN per child. In contrast, 44% children are not included in this programme at all. This is your policy. [[Applause]] Secondly, for the exclusion from the 500+ programme of children from children's homes and care facilities, as well as children with disabilities to a slight extent after 16 years of age. You brag about the fact that more second and third children are born. So, when, drastically, because by more than 3,000, the number of births of the first child dropped? As if this were not enough, you have allowed the financing of the in vitro programme to be abolished, from which, thanks to the introduction of the Civic Platform, 10,000 will be born. children. You say the 500+ programme has eradicated poverty in families. I'm sure he had an impact on it, maybe a big one, but I have to worry you, because in all the countries of the European Union there is the same trend as the global economic situation and the labour market situation. Third, for deactivating women. You lied here, too, because you said, "It's not true that women on the 500+ show are gonna quit their jobs. You lied. Data doesn't lie. Not even 100,000. women fell out of the labour market. The other 10,000. You took another lie. 30 January 2017 you said: The Uprising of 12 thousand. places in daycare in 2017 And what did you do? You've introduced harmful records of child shoving in nursery and kindergartens, increased the limits of places in groups and rooms, putting young children at risk. [[Yes, sir, school day care is now. It wasn't like that in the Polish People's Republic.]] You cut half the money for the nanny grant program, and as part of the program, you unveiled a commemorative plaque in the nursery in Pomerania in honor of Antoni Macierewicz. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] And you had to take an example from the Civic Platform, because when we took over for you in 2007, there were only 373 daycare centers. We've left you over 2700. The third 10,000. You hugged for taking 30 million zlotys from older people, exactly what you cut off last year's senior-WIGOR program. Of course, the first thing you did, including the minister's seat, was to change the name, of course, to Senior+. What was the next step? Of the PLN 60 million saved by the PO-PSL government, you left only 30 million for this purpose. So you did an action called senior minus. I'm asking you what you did with the money and when you're going to give it back. [[Voice from the hall: When will the husband return?]] The 'Accessibility+' programme, Prime Minister, is 60% financed by the European Union, so that you are proud of the programme prepared by the Civic Platform and the European Union is financed. [[Applause]] Four 10,000. We have a cover-up in the ZUS, then we have money related to PFRON. Speaking of PFRON, what you're yelling at me, you'd have to ask the president about the money from PFRON that Marta Kaczyńska's ex-husband took. What did he do with the money he stole from PFRON? [[Applause]] [[And what did your husband do?]] So ask me that. And what did President Kaczyński do about it? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Did he intervene or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is, what did Agent Tomek do with the money for environmental self-help homes? Take care of your own. [[Applause]] [[You do business on seniors.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: 6.5 million.]] You've done business on seniors and handicapped people. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u277	Mr President, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u278	Now the fifth 10,000. For life. 4,000. zł tributes for the birth of a sick child without providing any benefits in the subsequent years of the child's life. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Another 10,000. for calculating for multiples. In your previous term of office, when you were dealing with a bill granting benefits to multiple mothers, you said to me, "Give it to everyone." We've prepared a bill to give everyone, you've come, and what have you done? She took away those mothers' chances of getting more money. You only gave them 400 zlotys. What did we do during the global crisis? We have increased parental leave to many mothers up to 71 weeks. You can't do that. [[Applause]] And finally, your famous bands. The Interministerial Team for the Development of the Disability and Inability to Work System has long since completed its work and has not presented the results. These people took the money for it. Another team is the Team on Development of Solutions for the Improvement of the Situation of Persons with Disabilities and Members of their Families. Well, in light of recent events, it's a Stanisław Barei movie script. Hypocrisy raised to power and calculating. Once again, Minister, calculation. It's just a modest 70,000. That's what you've taken for this great credit. And these are just examples. I can tell you one thing: you deserve more. Take another 70,000. Rewards, go ahead. Just go to those mothers first, look them in the face, and tell them about this reward. You can also add that beautiful phrase that you once shouted to them: the Minister has his dignity too. [[Are you talking about dignity? Shame! Shame!]] When we sum up our deliberations, one important question arises: Why do you not like the weakest and most deprived, disabled, single parents, children from children's homes so much? Is it because they are not a strong and broad group voting in elections, and they cannot be capitalised on politically? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are very determined to ask you to resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u279	I would now ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Even Gregory wasn't there?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is Jarosław?]] [[Voice from the room: We don't know where he is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u280	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! Trusting that we are still in the Sejm, and not in the bazaar, I would like to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on a parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Rafalska, print No. 2496, which entered the Sejm on 30 April this year. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal addressed this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on 8 May for its opinion. The discussion, which took place on 4 June this year, was extremely turbulent, and the allegations made by Minister Elizabeth Rafalska for most of the members of the committee were unsubstantiated, unfounded and misguided. The committee by majority... [[P.I.P.'s.]] ...have decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal and, in accordance with the committee's report in print, 2596 recommends that the Sejm reject it. As rapporteur for both ladies, Prime Minister and Minister, I wanted to say: I am sorry. [[A voice from the room: It's a scandal. What are you saying?]] I apologize for all the words that ladies had to hear at that time during this debate and today during this debate. Dear Messengers, I am the first term of office in the Seym, I am a Member from Silesia, with us, things are called by name. [[You're the committee's rapporteur.]] No one's ever gonna tease a woman like that and humiliate her like the other woman. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're the committee's rapporteur, not the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u281	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! The statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the opposition's motion to express a vote of distrust towards Minister Elżbieta Rafalska is a great honour to myself. Why? Because you hit one of the strongest links of the Government of the United Right: the minister behind whom the actions are done, not promises, and the Polish families to whom the Minister restored the dignity and certainty of tomorrow, and the smiling faces of children, especially in families of many children. [[Applause]] This is your 16th vote of distrust in this term of office and its so-called. the justification does not even deserve to be analysed. I was embarrassed to hear the arguments put forward by the applicants during the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 4 June. Social policy, family and work are specific areas that require understanding, warmth, empathy and how often courage in their actions. Minister Rafalska has these qualities, which is why she is so liked, welcomed with warmth wherever she appears. It is this country from the opposition that you cannot bear: its success and the fact that Polish families are able to return it to its warmth and warmth. Let me quote a few quotes: Bravo, Minister! We're with you! We support you 100%. It's hard not to support this smart, hard-working woman. Really a super minister with a lot of commitment and knowledge, I don't recall ever being such a hardworking and competent minister. [[Applause]] [[Minister of Justice Lech Kaczyński.]] Such words appear regularly in comments in all the media, which inform about the actions taken by the Minister and its Ministry. Over PLN 47 billion for the 500+ programme, PLN 450 million per year for the This is only a small part of the resources that go to the Poles thanks to the activities of Minister Rafalska and her Ministry. Calling this money in your application humiliatingly insults Polish families. Applicants blinded by hatred for the Government of Law and Justice do not want to see all the government's actions aimed at improving the material and living situation of those who need state support. We remember that during the government of the PO-PSL coalition the subject of social and family policy was treated marginally... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: A lie!]] ...and sometimes even taken... I inform you that we are in the Seym, Minister. You were a family minister, too. I'll remind you in a moment what you did. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Minister Rafalska knows that.]] [[Voice from the room: You mustn't lie.]] Sometimes decisions that were not accepted by most citizens, even on pensions, were taken. One must have a great deal of resentment to say hate, not to see all these positive and long-awaited changes in society. At this point, a number of relevant questions should be asked to applicants. When you apply for a vote of distrust to Minister Rafalska, do you want to return to the old pension and pension regulations? Do you want to raise your retirement age? Yes, you do. You're not hiding it. Is it true that your hopeless motion for a vote of distrust is an unsuccessful attempt to strike the Polish family, development and security? Yes. Your application is directed especially against Polish families, against Poland. To whom does this proposal serve? Probably only those who still have not accepted the victory of the Law and Justice, political parties who report to their homeland and have nothing to offer but an incompetent office of shadows, which has been unable to come out of the shadow of its own infirmity from the time of its appointment to the present. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] I hope that the vote on this proposal will not be based solely on blind loyalty to the groups you represent, but on a logical and reliable assessment of the achievements, the actions of Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the work she's doing is a good enough argument to vote against this motion. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote against this pointless proposal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u283	Thank you, Member. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u284	I've been looking at the minister's work and the entire department you've been running for 933 days. [[Voice from the room: You're lucky.]] And there came a time when you had to say very loudly and clearly: enough. No more contempt for weaker people, no more intimidation, no more lies from ministerial officials. [[Don't give me that kind of attention.]] You take prizes and you lie. It's just not right. The 40-day protest in the Sejm exposed the whole truth about how the ministry is managed and what criteria it uses to make decisions. For Rafalska and her team, these are purely political profits. Let me remind you, Minister, how in 2014 you whispered in your ear to protesters: vote for me, vote for the PiS, we will implement all your demands. So? What happened, Minister? [[Voice from the room: We're realising.]] Why has the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment been impossible for three years? What happened to the money that was earmarked for this purpose? I'm going back to your entire ministry. Helping families with disabilities begins and ends with a one-off bribe for giving birth to a child with a disability. The PiS pays $4,000 for it. zł. [[Voice from the room: Have you read the bill?]] But note, including state aid and ministry for families with disabilities ends. Then a woman, a mother, a family left alone with a failing health system. We judge the work of Minister Rafalska today, but we must not forget this outstanding team that you accompany. For example, Deputy Minister Stanisław Szwed, who is responsible for the labour market, took on changes in the Labour Code. The codification commission set up by the Ministry worked for 1.5 years. What was the effect of the job? I'll tell you what. Nearly PLN 1 million was spent on taxpayers' money, and the result of this work was that all proposals were rejected by the votes of employers, workers and trade unions. That's how you work the resort. Let's move on, Deputy Minister Marcin Zielenecki overseeing the ZUS. For example, new standards accepted by the Ministry were purchased for PLN 60 million by new print cards for people with disabilities. But beware, without a tender, because a particular interest of the state has been invoked. So it went 60 million without a tender. You spend to the left and right, boast about huge budget surpluses, and 500 zlotys for life for people with disabilities are not there. I'm not going to mention Mr Bartosz Marczuk's statement, because he's a leader in the Ministry of Lies, Manipulation. I will quote the last example, Minister: at least PLN 3050 a month receive from you people such as those protesting in the Sejm. And what's it really like? In total, every month disabled people receive 1031 PLN. In addition, PLN 1477 is available to carers of disabled persons who have resigned from their employment. And that's the facts, Minister. Don't say that shit to the ministers, because they really don't hold up. It's a shame. [[Applause]] However, Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, a representative of the government for persons with disabilities, created the biggest profession. You'll be remembered, Minister, as a person who doesn't understand why ministerial limousines shouldn't park in a place for people with disabilities. I'm really getting my head around this, and I'm wondering, how can you ignore things like that? Why didn't you pay attention to the ministers in the government? Why don't you look after people with disabilities, their needs and their affairs? Why aren't you their spokesperson? Why are you in this position? [[Applause]] For those bonuses, the prizes? You could mention what you've done for a long time, but at the end of the day, I want to tell you how your ministry will be remembered. Your ministry will be remembered as having a face of contempt, a face of hypocrisy and malice. This face was seen by the whole of Poland during a 40-day protest, which is still not finished today. He's suspended because you don't have the ability to find a compromise. You didn't get along with them. You just chickened out. You prefer to come out here and yell at the opposition and talk about the success of 500+. But we're talking about people with disabilities today. 500 zlotys for life. Is that so much, Minister? Why do you give them diapers? Why are you telling them and telling them what to decide? Since 500+ can be spent according to your wishes, people with disabilities should also have the right to do so. That's why you should leave. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[With a formal application. As an envoy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u285	Member with a formal request? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] [[Is it in writing?]] [[Voice from the room: Is it in writing?]] It's the Marshal's decision whether he needs to be written. [[Oh, they're all their own.]] Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request and I am asking the Member to come out to this pulpit and apologize to all the mothers who gave birth to disabled children... [[Voice from the room: Bribe.]] ... Because you've used an insult to my opinion that they're getting bribed for it. This is simply unworthy, my fellow Member. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u287	Thank you very much. It wasn't a formal conclusion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And you'll apologize for not being there for 40 days.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Reliability of the Member...]] [[Are you gonna see her?]] Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Minister! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I don't know if I can start now. I can, right? Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to my previous speech and your personal and political war. The war between the Platform and the PiS is a war in which somebody will probably win. Today, the PiS will probably win because that's what the arithmetic shows, but the question is whether people with disabilities will win. In my opinion, no, so I will not personally address the Minister and these matters, because I believe that even a change in the position of Minister, personal in the whole arrangement, in the whole system, will not change anything. That is why I would prefer the Minister to answer the questions. I'm gonna go through the meth and whatever needs to be fixed in the system. I would like to know when the caselaw system will be corrected so that independent people receive money for their decent lives and those who are disabled, but with different degrees of disability, benefit from other support systems that are appropriate to these disabilities. When are we going to eliminate from this system those who have simply turned into unemployment and receive social benefits during the transition period? There are a lot of people that the state finances twice, e.g. employing them and financing jobs with PFRON, and therefore there is not enough money for independents. That's why we had to start with that. I have another question. When the Minister starts work, has she started a real reform of two systems: social assistance and labour offices? You know that 70% of customers are people of these two systems exactly the same. That's not enough, they're clients who get different benefits, and they've been in it for 10 years, and their shoes are coming into the next generation because that's the system we have. I'd like to know if you're thinking of combining these two systems to save money to give, for example. people with disabilities in the way that Kukiz has proposed from the very beginning15 to manage money wisely and effectively in the social assistance system. I'd also like to know when you're going to start a serious work on social economy, which is hope and opportunity for people to activate to give fish, not fishing... [[Voice from the room: Inverse.]] ...because EU money will run out, and unfortunately at this point it is only and exclusively financed by EU money. You're talking about working for people with disabilities. Professional establishments and other places provide only 5 thousand. jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is 5,000?? It's such a small group. If we're even talking about 280 grand. people with disabilities from birth, it is these people who will not get a job in occupational activities. Few of this, due to this bureaucratic institutional system, are controlled by five institutions. That's how bureaucracy works. And if in this pool of money for social policy you also include the state of successive officials who are called to control all these institutions, then I am not surprised that these amounts are coming out, and people with disabilities still do not have money to support themselves. At the end of the question. I return to the fact that I would not like it to be politically, and I believe that the request for your appeal is political, which is why I am so consistently saying that we did not want this proposal because it will not change the situation of people with disabilities. Just answer me, Minister, because there are three absolutely non-political projects in the freezer, made by our club, small ones, which make life easier for people with disabilities. One concerns a parking card so that, instead of applying to the three offices, the person immediately receives the card with the decision, the other concerns the granting of seats to disabled persons in family homes of assistance run by social cooperatives, and the third, which has already been rejected once and has now been lodged for the second time, concerns the institution of incapacity, the limitation of this institution, the institution of the healthcare provider. The projects cost nothing, they require some work. The projects were not used to fight politically, they concern a small group of people, they are not addressed to a large group. They're in the freezer. Why? That's because they're compounded by another group. And that's doing politics on people with disabilities too. [[Applause]] This is the debate we would expect, we should debate on such projects. So if this proposal is political, it's the same thing about keeping good and really ineffective projects in the freezer that are politically policy-making, so you're all in politics, and you're not talking about major reforms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u289	Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Posel Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just got your message. Let me read it. If Beata Szydło was so fiercely defending people with disabilities as she was defending awards for herself and her ministers, Poland would be a beautiful country. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They just belonged.]] [[Voice from the room: Who wrote this?]] At the moment, however, we are assessing the activities of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the person of Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. It is important who is the minister of social policy, ladies and gentlemen, because the layman is judged differently, or the person with established knowledge in the field. I have mentioned on several occasions from this podium that when I found out more than two years ago who was to become the head of this department, I felt relieved because who in PiS knows better than Mrs Rafalska the real problems of those excluded, seniors, disabled people. Mr. Michałkiewicz may be, but Mr. Michałkiewicz is in the department, so it's settled. The expectations of you were enormous, Minister. And I'm talking here. not only about my personal expectations, but also about the social expectations, the expectations of the environments with which you have worked intensively as a Member of the opposition. These are expectations of excluded environments, seniors and people with disabilities, expectations and huge hopes. And what happened? How did you repay the voters for that huge debt of trust you've been given, Minister? Aren't you ashamed of yourself in front of these people? After these two years of government, I still believe that you have knowledge, unfortunately it is difficult not to get the impression that the actions you are taking are being imposed and that you are misunderstood that you lack decision-making, that even if you want to, you simply cannot. Why am I directing this in the form of charges against you? Because you're allowing it. You allow the government to use you in the pursuit of party interests, and you should serve the citizens first. Being a minister is secondary to being an MEP. On the one hand, you have an appointed office in which everyone is an easy-to-use pawn, and on the other hand there is a public and social function resulting from the general election mandate and an obligation to represent citizens. What did you choose? That's the first one. The people you hire don't contribute to priority matters. On the contrary, instead of working for the success of your department, they act on time, slow down, to a disadvantage. Instead of simplifying the law and adapting it to European standards, as I understand the effective resolution of social problems, bureaucracy is up and building walls between government and citizens. You keep your promises instead of introducing them. Accessibility+ programmes, the Lifetime Programme - it's only on paper. People come to us and ask us when the demands from these programs will be implemented, and you either don't notice it, or because you don't decide, your eyes are closed. That vote probably wouldn't have been there if only you had to be judged, Minister. This vote of distrust is the result of your omissions, Minister, omissions and helplessness in crisis situations. The day after Mother's Day ended the 40-day strike of people with disabilities in the Sejm. You failed not only with the incompetent conduct of conversations, not only by sending out their representatives who insulted protesting citizens with their arrogant attitude, but also by misrepresenting the government, not only that the disabled did not complete the protest, but that they suspended him, beaten by the Marshal's Guard, not only that you did not ensure that Mr Żalek gave up immunity and brought him to justice to answer for his shameful actions and words. You failed, first of all, to abandon and fail to comply with the promises made to voters over the past years, to fail to comply with the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment on compensation for caretakers of persons with disabilities, not undergoing a reform of case law, not undergoing a reform of family benefits, the introduction of populist benefits such as 500+ or an expedition of 300+, which aggravated the situation of many environments and whose side effects, for example. The increase in unemployment among women will hiccup the entire society over the years. That's not what you're talking about in these programs. You were supposed to improve the quality of life of people who were socially excluded, and you press your belt unintelligiblely, leading you to receive benefits guaranteeing the survival of many social groups. Finally, Minister, you personally failed me by saying that you had come to reform the social assistance system and after 2 years of government you considered that you could not do it and that by submitting a request to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Family Benefits Act on welfare benefits for persons with disabilities, you could not know what the outcome of the Constitutional Tribunal would be and that you simply did not agree with this judgment, although it is in your mind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u291	Ms Urszula Pasławska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u292	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! I will begin by correcting the statement by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who said that during the previous coalition the social pension increased by 6%. That is not true, Prime Minister - it has increased by 47.4 percentage points. I hope this was due to your ignorance, not your premeditation. [[Applause]] The second point is that you have proposed dialogue and cooperation on the case law relating to persons with disabilities. I have a question: Where and when? We as the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats are ready to cooperate. But to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! Until recently, Minister Rafalska, I must say, stood out against the background of a miserable government. We had much sympathy for you, Minister, as Members of the Polish People's Party. You continued your pro-family policy of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, you maintained your support, so-called. You kept your 12-month parental leave, and you kept a lot of social and social programs, changing their name, but we're not offended. The Polish People's Party was the only opposition party that supported the 500+ programme. We have supported you in many good endeavors, but the curtain has fallen and the spell has broken after problems have arisen, that is, until the protest of the guardians of people with disabilities and the defeat of the PiS government in negotiations on posted workers. The curtain fell and the illusions blew. We have a minister responsible for social policy who turns his back on Poles, does not want to solve the problems of people with disabilities. The recent protest in the Sejm showed us all that Minister Rafalska does not want dialogue, does not want an agreement with a group of citizens most affected by fate. In return, you coddle, signing an alleged agreement with organizations that didn't even protest. Such calculating fraud is not suitable for any politician, and certainly not for the constitutional minister. [[Applause]] The Minister has deceived an environment that is hoping to help her, and it is your sacred duty to solve problems. People with disabilities simply, by telling your nomenclature, this care and attention belonged. Minister Rafalska was appointed to serve Poles, not vice versa. Just as a spoon spoils a barrel of honey, so the defeat of Minister Rafalska in resolving the dispute of guardians destroyed all previous achievements. And there was more to it than that. At the last moment, not so long ago it was decided, the negotiations of the directive on posted workers, which was very harmful to Poland, ended. Also during our coalition, the European Union, especially many European Union countries, demanded and expected it to be introduced, while the PSL government effectively blocked the implementation of this directive. It can be said that this is the defeat of the entire PiS government, but above all, Minister Rafalska. What about the situation of Polish pensioners living on the border of poverty? And the problem of single mothers getting 500+ rights? And the fact that on TVPiS they repeat over and over again that Poland is growing stronger and that people live a prosperous life, nothing about reality? A lie repeated even a thousand times does not become true, although propagandaists not only from the PiS feel otherwise. Minister Rafalska encourages cooperation and dialogue. Why didn't she want to talk about people with disabilities? Why did you reject the PSL project without tax? Why did you reject the PSL project? Why did you reject the PSL project - and you personally voted against - an hour for the family? Why did you vote against - and you too - the introduction of a special allowance to your pension? There is only one answer: not only do you not want to, but you do not know how to solve problems and do not solidarity with ordinary Poles. When I speak of Minister Rafalska and the Ministry of Labour, I recall a quote from the classic Orwell: The true field of the Ministry of Peace is war, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ministry of truth - lies, ministry of love - torture. In this nomenclature, your resort should be called the Ministry of Familylessness and Conflict Policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u293	Thank you, Member, thank you very much. Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, non-member, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Beato Szydło, you still don't understand. I'm proud of being on black marches and women's strikes. [[Applause]] Do you know why? Because these marches were about choice, choice, Minister. If you had the courage and if you had talked to the mothers who protested for 40 days at 68 m2 if you had listened to them, what they had to deal with when they had a child with a disability, maybe you'd understand. But you preferred to go down the Danube, and I'll remind you of that for the rest of your life. On the other hand, as regards Minister Rafalska, Minister, in 2014 you were in opposition and when there were protests, you promised those protesting mothers that you would arrange for their demands that you would do so. You promised. Where's the promise? What happened to the trust they gave you? Prime Minister, Prime Minister... Minister, since you are not yet Prime Minister, you have lost the trust of these protesters. You just betrayed them. On the 11th of May, you were at your last meeting, and then Adrian Glinka asked you if the government was preparing something for the protesters. Do you remember what you said that night? Because I remember Adrian and the viewers and the viewers remember. You didn't say anything. You shut up, you let your head down, and you left. So I'm suggesting you leave now, too, but she's out of this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u295	Now please speak to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u296	Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is not difficult, it is not easy for me to debate and certainly not for the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, each of the club's presenters talked about respect, dignity, the proper treatment of disabled people, and said it in words full of aggression, unjust, hurtful... [[Who?]] ...slamming the other way. I will tell you that I am sitting in this Chamber for the eleventh year, and I would like to believe that even if we are divided by political differences, we are only political opponents, but not political enemies, because we live in one country and we should all care about this country here, because this is what Polish voters, Poles, care about. It's just the way it is. [[Applause]] [[But you don't care.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I take this discussion today as an opportunity to show what the Government of Law and Justice is doing with social policy, social policy, which so far has not been in Poland. That's what I said on the committee. I have been an observer and participant in social policy for almost 25 years: 12 years in local government, the rest in parliament, the Seym and the Senate. And I can tell you that no government, after the transformation of such social policy as the rule of law and justice, has so far led, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] No government, no government with such momentum the next day started... [[What's for the disabled?]] ...to implement such important groundbreaking programs as our Government of Law and Justice, introducing within the first 100 days a 500+ family program that you no longer want to hear about because it's just uncomfortable for you. [[Applause]] [[Excluding 44% of children.]] I would also like to say, by the way, that under this programme, while we are talking about people with disabilities, the increase in expenditure in 2016 amounted to more than 900 million PLN and 220 000 PLN. Children with disabilities received a benefit of 500+ with a higher income criterion, 50% higher than any other criterion - this is the highest criterion that has ever been applied in the Polish social assistance system. You've never used a system like this before. [[What about adults with disabilities?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about people with disabilities, you are talking about those who are falling out of the 500+ programme system, and maybe I can tell you how many children have stopped using the family benefit scheme in 2008 and 2015. [[Empathy.]] [[What about the disabled?]] The right to family allowances during the reign of the Civic Platform has lost more than 2 million Polish children, it is about low benefits. [[What about people with disabilities?]] How can you charge us with not remembering the most deprived? Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of extreme child poverty. To a party like the Civic Platform, poverty, especially child poverty, probably didn't fit, so it was reluctant to talk about it. Between 2008 and 2015, below the minimum of existence in Poland, there were still 600 and 700 thousand living in extreme poverty. children. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our government that has significantly eliminated this extreme poverty, that we are eliminating poverty, not just among families and children, as soon as possible in Europe at the moment. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was this embarrassing moment in the history of social policy, and it happened to you. It was 2009, 2010, when... [[What about people with disabilities today?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the income criterion... But disabled people also benefit from social services. Ladies and gentlemen, the income criterion for social assistance benefits was lower than the minimum of existence. It's never happened before. It was a drastic restriction on people's access to their fundamental rights, to the right to social assistance. And today you accuse us of not caring for the most deprived? [[That's what the needy say. You just don't listen.]] Who was the most at risk of poverty at the time? Families with two children, families with three children. This meant, ladies and gentlemen, that the biological minimum existence was not guaranteed. Disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very interesting. Between 2009 and 2014, extreme poverty among households with disabled people increased by more than 40%, in 2015 and 2017 - decreased by 40%. Extreme poverty in farms with disabled children increased by 40% between 2011 and 2014 and decreased by 70% between 2015 and 2017. [[Applause]] [[What about adults with disabilities?]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Children's Day, the Central Statistical Office presented data on the extent of economic poverty in Poland in 2017. To whom did poverty fall the most? These are families with a disabled child, with a disabled child, and single mothers raising at least one disabled child. [[What about adults with disabilities? That's what we're talking about today.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. These are facts. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about the reforms of law and justice, about the social situation, let's say one thing that hasn't been said in a word. Let's talk about the situation in the labour market, about the record low registered unemployment. I can tell you that we have the latest data, the data for May. In May unemployment fell by a further 0.2 percentage points. [[Applause]] Decreased from 6.3% to 6.1% and the number of registered unemployed is approaching the number which so far has not been in Poland since the transition period. [[How many mothers don't work?]] I think there will be less than 1 million unemployed people registered in June. [[Applause]] The number of unemployed has decreased by 560 000 since the rule of law and justice. [[How many disabled people do we have? Get back to the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u297	Mrs Shumilas, stop disturbing the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u298	At each level, social activity is growing, both in terms of labour participation rates, employment rates, youth unemployment rates and registered unemployment rates. We have introduced a solution so far not used in the Polish system - an hourly rate. We did it in the first year of our government. As the Prime Minister, slavery, has already said, it is about paying for an hour's work at a rate of, I do not know, 5 PLN, even 3 PLN, and the Swedish Minister showed even more drastic data. Poland achieved its national objective in terms of employment rate at the age of 20 and 64 years. We have achieved the required indicator to be achieved by 2020. The minimum wage is rising. This is the situation on the labour market. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the question of where the money went. You asked for 600 million, which... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this was an accusation that was very often raised here, so you may be interested in what I can answer on the basis of documents that are available in my ministry. According to correspondence, which is, between the Minister of Labour, then Minister Kosiniak and the Minister of Finance, there is no guarantee of funds in 2016 for the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is correspondence dated 13 August 2015. Of the proposed amount of the reserve of over PLN 2 billion, the reserve, which was included, amounted to 1316 million and related to other titles, i.e. the cost of valorizing family benefits, covering parental benefits, this new solution, which entered into force since the first 2016 and the financing of the zloty mechanism for zloty. I can provide you with relevant data and appropriate correspondence in this regard. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer right now to people with disabilities, to this protest, which, I understand, at the moment when it ended, has ceased to be of interest to you. [[Voice from the room: That's not true!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the charge of not making conversations, avoiding meetings with people with disabilities is an absolutely false and unfair charge. I don't remember if I've been eight or nine times, but almost every time we have protestors, protesters wanted to see me, I was [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] At your disposal, not only in private rooms, in six, but also in situations where cameras were watching us, and they were public, really not easy meetings. We've been talking, ladies and gentlemen, about our actions, those beyond family policy... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's too bad to talk to them!]] Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's easier to talk about respect than to show respect for others... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...in a situation where you could afford it. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: They didn't hear that either.]] [[Voice from the hall: Tell that to your government colleagues.]] These invectives and the insults that Prime Minister Beata Szydło had to hear today, this is proof of your respect for the other man, that is respect for someone else. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about what policy we've been pursuing since the very beginning. So an increase in the amount of PLN 3 billion - we have talked about this many times - this is a comprehensive support programme for families behind life, that is the implementation of this program, that is a number of solutions so far unheard of or unusable, that is respite care, these are sheltered dwellings, these are assistants of a disabled person, that is assistant work or trainer, that is to support the employment of carers of people with disabilities, that is the development of environmental networks of welfare homes, increased expenditures here, their intensive development in areas where so far these houses have not been. But, of course, we have plans for the future, which I will try to present, in addition to those actions that we have implemented over 2.5 years of work. Thus, it is the development of solutions provided for in the road map of the construction of the system of support for disabled people and their families, the preparation of a project on assisted employment, the increase of the co-financing of 715 workshops of occupational therapy, the increase of the co-financing of 107 workstations that we are planning since 2019, the increase of funds and hours in the field of respite care, the increase of the availability of rehabilitation tournaments [[♪ The bell ♪]] for people with a significant degree of disability, the reform of the disability system and the introduction of a judgment on independence - I am talking about the harmonisation of judicial systems - the development and pilot implementation of a model of comprehensive rehabilitation, the amendment of a resolution on the implementation of a comprehensive support programme, support for the employment of disabled people, rehabilitation of children with disabilities, individual guidance, group guidance. Ladies and gentlemen, a moment on dialogue with the environment of people with disabilities. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] So far, ladies and gentlemen, in your time, for 35 members... [[Voice from the room: Time, Mr. Marshal, time.]] ... National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u299	Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u300	...you had seven representatives. We gave these representatives 20 - and they had to have at least 15 organizations. So you're saying this wasn't a dialogue with people with disabilities? Employment of people with disabilities has increased. [[They said you manipulated them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u301	Minister, you've already run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u302	We are developing a strategy for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal, what about time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u303	Minister, you're welcome to conclude. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to finish by three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u305	No, no, Minister. [[Voice from the room: No, time.]] Minister, you're welcome. [[Rules of procedure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u306	I'll tell you one thing. I am not attached to the position of Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I see this as a commitment to Poles, as a responsibility not easy and not difficult at all, [[Applause]] Because it really took a great deal of peace to hear it today. I think if you had such knowledge of your accomplishments within 8 years, you would not have written such an irresponsible proposal, assuming in advance that paper would accept everything, because this paper will remain and prove your embarrassment. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, because today you were doing everything you could to make it harder for Prime Minister Morawiecki to speak first, then Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and right now, me, to all of us... [[Voice from the gym: The government doesn't listen to you.]] I assure you, you have failed to do so. [[Applause]] [[It worked a little.]] Using the fact that I'm in the podium... [[It's been four minutes.]] ...I want to thank you. [[Time's up, what is it?]] I'm just gonna say thank you. I want to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] I will tell you that this is the Prime Minister that any future social policy, any future minister of family, labour and social policy can dream of, [[Applause]] Because no one understands social problems. Understanding the situation, there were many fires between me and the finance minister. Prime Minister, thank you very much for your support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u307	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u308	I also thank Prime Minister Morawiecki for continuing the policy of the Government of Law and Justice, developing it and understanding that our ideological fuel is social solidarity. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Matthew.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u309	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u310	My fellow ministers for understanding...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u311	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u312	...that social goals had to be first, behind them were different. [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone off!]] To my clubmates, you always trusted me, and I could count on your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to bow deep in the belt to Polish families and thank them because without them there would be no success 500+, because they knew, [[Applause]] how to accept this program, how to implement it and they are its co-author. [[And the disabled don't know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u313	Minister, you're welcome to end this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u314	Finally, I would like to express my deep respect...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u315	Minister, please... You've been through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u316	...and say hello, I'm coming down, all the carers, parents of disabled children and say that... [[And the adults?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u317	Minister, you're welcome to end this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u318	...we appreciate their incredible effort to raise a disabled child. [[What about adults with disabilities and their guardians? What about them?]] We know the drill. Mothers must be strong and hard. I understand that perfectly. Believe us. We remember you, we respect you, and we value you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u319	Minister, you're welcome to end this. Minister, thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Six minutes. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 14 hours 19 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 2606. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] The committee responsible has submitted a report [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of General John Henryk Dąbrowski on the 200th anniversary of death, print No. 2567. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. So we proceed with the consideration... [[The Gathered Rise Up]] There's no need to say. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of General John Henryk Dąbrowski on the 200th anniversary of his death (prints No. 2558 and 2567). Please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Mrs Joanna Lichocka. Member, if it pleases you... [[Voice from the room: Unprepared!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski on the 200th anniversary of his death. This project was submitted by Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski from Poznań. No wonder Wielkopolska insists on commemorating General Dąbrowski. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating General John Henryk Dąbrowski on the 200th anniversary of his death. Gen. Jan Henryk Dąbrowski was an outstanding military commander and organizer of Polish military formations. During the second partition of Poland as one of the few commanders honorably resisted the Prussian troops in Gniezno, while during the Kościuszko Insurrection he not only marked himself during the defence of Warsaw, but also organized a successful diversionary expedition to Wielkopolska, giving the Prussian troops great losses. After the fall of the uprising, he went to France to emigrate. In 1797 he became the main organizer of fighting alongside Napoleon Polish Legions in Italy - the first Polish military formation after the fall of the Republic of Poland. He demonstrated excellent organizational skills there, implemented a modern command and promotion system, and provided soldiers with reading and writing lessons and patriotic education. The liquidation of the Legions did not end his sacrificial service. In 1806, he played a fundamental role in shaping Napoleon's policy towards Poles. The arrival of Jan Henryk Dąbrowski and Józef Wybicki to Poznań on 6 November 1806 met with great enthusiasm of society and gave rise to the armed movement which took over Wielkopolska and then the lands of central Poland. During that time, General Dąbrowski joined the organization of the Polish army and, within 2 months, put more than 20,000 under arms. soldiers, which was an outstanding achievement. The Wielkopolska Uprising was the first of the successful national uprisings and brought hope for the rebirth of Polish statehood. In 1812 he took part in an expedition to Moscow, and the following year, after the death of Fr. Józef Poniatowski became chief commander of the Army of the Duchy of Warsaw. After Napoleon's fall, he organized the army of the Polish Kingdom. He died on 6 June 1818 in his estate in Winnogóra in the Grand Duchy of Poznań, where he was buried. The urn with his heart is composed in the Crypt of Decent Great-Polans in the undergrounds of the church of St. Wojciech in Poznań. The achievements of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski as the creators of the Legions led to the return of the Polish case to the international arena. The general's figure has become a symbol of the aspirations of independent Poles. It significantly contributed to the rebirth, although in incomplete form, of the Polish statehood in the form of the Duchy of Warsaw. 'The Song of Polish Legions in Italy' by Józef Wybicki, who after regaining independence became our national anthem, was called 'Mazurka Dąbrowski' from the very beginning. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the figures and achievements of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski on the 200th anniversary of his death. I would like to ask the High Sejm to accept the content of this resolution by acclamation. [[The gathered get up, long-lasting applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u321	Thank you. Without hearing the opposition, I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating General John Henryk Dąbrowski's 200th anniversary of his death. [[Applause]] We return to the discussion of item 21 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission, let me remind you, has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 189 Members voted against - 235, with four abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]] I state that, in the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust towards Prime Minister Beata Szydło. We return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Rafalska. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission, let me remind you, has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Rafalska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 192 voted against - 234, with two abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Elizabeth! Elizabeth! Elizabeth!]] I state that, in view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of the Family. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Public Finance Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2543. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 2543, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 4, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Public Finance Act. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2539-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws, print No 2459. The report is contained in print No 2539-A. Ladies and gentlemen! At his very busy meeting on 5 June, the Sejm worked on the bill. During his work, amendments were tabled during the work of the committee. Five amendments were tabled, with two amendments being voted jointly, so there were four votes. These amendments are proposed to be accepted. Eight minority proposals were also submitted during the meeting, which were jointly voted on. We therefore propose that amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5 be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u323	I remind you, it's print number 2539. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We will vote first on the proposals of minorities and the amendments which the committee is proposing. Minority requests from 1 to 6 and Amendments 1 and 2 have been submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. 38 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 261 against - 144, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 56 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 278, against - 147, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 4 92. This proposal brings together minority proposals from 2. to 8. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The minority proposal boils down to eight complementary amendments aimed at removing harmful legislation on road transport operators, as the Government of Law and Justice in this project went further than merely implementing the European Commission's regulation into our law, but increased the penalties by up to 100% in some cases, and also changed the punishment mode from criminal to administrative. Why are you doing this? That is why to facilitate the lives of officials controlling these services, and to make the lives of entrepreneurs more difficult. This industry is more than 12% GDP of our economy, and you are the Prime Minister on the left and right of the constitution for entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, why is this happening? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u325	Is that a question for the Minister or a question for the rapporteur? A representative of the government. Minister Adamczyk will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, the honourable Member, when he asks this question, unfortunately, misses reality, but that is a natural thing. I would like to remind you that in the European Union the level of penalties is much higher. [[And the revenue?]] We're talking about $12,000. zł. In France, it's 15,000. EUR 18 000 in Spain The euro and in Germany the penalty for the lack of documents required for the carriage of goods by heavy goods vehicles amounts to 200 000. Euros. That's one thing. On the other hand, the answer is as follows: Should the Polish Parliament adopt decisions that will strengthen the grey zone? What are these punishments for? Penalties shall be for the carriage of goods by road without the required authorisation. What kind of business are you talking about? What kind of hit in the industry? Failure to give up or prevent checks in whole or in part. Who are you defending? It's a gray zone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Who are they competing with?]] We defend first and foremost honest carriers who act in accordance with the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You can't just leave like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u327	Member of the House? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mr Stanisław Żmijan in correction mode. Time - 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: It was not mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You are well aware of the conditions under which this industry was built after 1989 alone, without State aid. You know that today they compete in a difficult European market, but with success. And this is your help? Comparing the revenues of entrepreneurs from Germany, France, Spain with the revenues of those entrepreneurs in Poland? [[What about the gray area?]] Minister, as the Prime Minister suggested, compare apples to apples. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u329	The Minister wants an answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I see that you still do not understand anything, so I repeat once again: These penalties are intended for those who perform services without having the required authorisations, without having the required documents, i.e. those who carry out business activities in the grey area. So we're protecting entrepreneurs. I repeat once again: we protect businesses who act legally, fulfil all their obligations, and maintain the principles of equal competition. Thank you very much. [[Road toll.]] [[Why in administrative mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u331	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority's proposals from 1 to 8 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 193 voted against - 235, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the third amendment to the article. 3 The amending law containing amendments to the Code of Conduct in the case of offences of the applicant in Article. 96 § Point 1a (2) suggests that this provision should also apply to the Border Guard. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 25, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to the annex to the bill. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 408, 1 against 7 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is raised by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister repeats here all the time: Berlin this, Berlin that. Minister Adamczyk, for example, refers to German, French. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in Poland. We are in Poland and we should take care of the Polish transport industry. So I don't know why you guys keep calling me here for some kind of... [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Foreign examples. This is our industry, ladies and gentlemen, which, as in the American dream of zero-to-millionaire, has taken over Europe as a whole. And now all of Europe has taken an oath against our transport industry. And what does the government do? Instead of helping our industry, it still adds to her responsibilities, she's being punished. And this is your help that's supposed to kill our entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is missing the truth here. This bill will create additional burdens for entrepreneurs, but, interestingly, it will facilitate the work of officials. The clerk won't have to find proof, prove his guilt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All he has to do is administratively punish him if he finds a breach. This is not helping, it is damaging the Polish transport industry. And get it over with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u333	Thank you, sir. But, sir, that was not a question for you as rapporteur, so I can give you... [[Sit down.]] ...the vote as the Member asking the question. [[It was for the Minister.]] I can speak to the rapporteur if there is a question for him. Would the Minister like to speak? There you go, Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that we are in the process of implementing the European Commission's Regulation, the European Parliament directive, into the Polish legal area, so let us not say that it is the government that is taking these measures on its own initiative. [[Commission regulations, not directives.]] However, when you talk about the oppressed road transport industry, it must be remembered, it must be said very clearly that it was in Poland until 2001 until September... [[Eight years.]] ...until the High Sejm passed the Road Transport Inspection Act, that in fact the truck controls looked completely different. Since 2002, when the Law entered into force, the Road Transport Inspection regulates this and, above all, eliminates the grey zone as regards road transport. And once again: Whenever we are talking about penalties today, it is about penalties for those who carry out carriages, transporting trucks against regulations, without having the required permits, i.e. not being those whom you have spoken about, those who... [[You should have moved the charges to the inspection.]] ...doing their job in accordance with the law. These penalties are only applied to those who break the rules in a clear way. There's no need to break the rules. If someone is acting in accordance with the law, they will not be exposed to higher costs, as it happened here, and certainly not in the road transport industry in Poland. And let me tell you one more thing. I think that you should be the last to speak because what the government has been doing for many, many months to change the provisions of the mobility package for the Posting in Transport Directive and these projects... [[That's right, that's right.]] ...these ideas which appear in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, in a fundamental way do not entitle you to present today the argument that the Government of Law and Justice is against road transport companies in Poland. It's illegal. [[You should have moved the charges to inspection.]] It's just not true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u335	Mr Suchoń, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Nobody says you're against it. Only when it comes to adapting our right to EU law do we all agree that this must be done. This law, on the other hand, is an example of a situation where, in addition to the part that brings our legislation into line with European Union law, there is another part that is the invention of our bureaucrats. And it is these inventions of our bureaucrats that make our entrepreneurs punished for being active. [[But they're not entrepreneurs.]] They are simply treated in such a way that they must meet additional bureaucratic burdens, not only that European ones, they are still ours, Polish ones. I'm talking about these ideas and making life easier for the officials. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm calling you guys to stop doing that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u337	Thank you. We proceed to the voice room over the whole draft law. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 2539, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 233, against 181, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on tachographs. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2574. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2574 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's against it? 422 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote 420 against - 1 vote. The Sejm passed the tachograph bill. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2477. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 2477, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 1 with 30 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Energy and the Treasury at its meeting today considered the amendments tabled at second reading. The amendments were tabled by the Modern Club. The Commission recommends rejecting the amendments tabled and rejecting the minority proposal. I am also pleased to inform you that, during the vote, none of the members of the club who tabled this amendment also supported this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u339	Thank you. Let me remind you, the committee requests the adoption of a draft print law No. 2542 and presents a minority proposal, as we have heard. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposal presented in the additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety. I remind you, the committee is asking for his rejection. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The questions will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 18 billion in 10 years - this is what Poles will pay for the fee that you are implementing. You have no shame. Fuel at stations long ago exceeded 5 PLN, and you add another 10 gr to each 1 l. These are more expensive holidays, more expensive commutes to work, these are more expensive products in shops. But this is another position on the so long list of fees and taxes implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. Finally, stop lying to Poles that you are not implementing new taxes and taxes, because this government cannot glue together the budget if it does not introduce four new taxes per year into Polish law. [[Shh, but don't yell.]] Prime Minister, is this the result of fighting the VAT mafia or draining the wallets of Poles? You're the one who said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought you were gonna make changes without raising taxes. And what do we have? It's an expensive shift. It's not good, it's expensive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u341	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A few hours ago for 50 minutes, Prime Minister, you were talking about the state of the budget, how great it is, how much you have in the budget, how you collect VAT. At the same time, a few hours later, we are voting on a bill in which you add 10 gr to the fuel. 10 gr you will milk the Poles at each gas station. We're gonna pay everyone more for fuel and all the other products. It's absurd for you to say that this fee will be taken on by fuel companies. This is the height of economic stupidity, to tell such things. Did the bank tax take on the banks? Did the insurance companies take on this tax? No. The Poles paid. You lied here for 50 minutes so you almost punched a man's eye out at the gallery with your nose. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You're lying all the time, and today you're scamming 10 gr on fuel. You're talking about five. Don't limit yourself like that. There'll be six. There'll be six zlotys for fuel. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 6 zł per 1 l. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u343	The question will be asked by Wojciech Zubowski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am so surprised to hear the statements of the opposition parliamentarians, because, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion at committee meetings was very different. Your main topic of concern was not how it is supposed to affect you on the finances of Poles, but whether or not Western fuel companies and Western stations will lose on it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] And that was what you were interested in. [[You liar.]] And a question for the Minister. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] You're talking about introducing some taxes. I want to tell you one thing. Today is June 6th, Tax Freedom Day, the best ever since this research started. [[Voice from the hall: Tax on this occasion.]] This shows the burden under the rule of law and justice. The best result in the history of doing this research. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, correct...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u345	Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Where's the canister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u346	The canister. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a black day for the Polish Sejm, because Law and Justice wants to raise taxes again. The fuel price is set to rise by 10 grams per litre. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, you want to increase taxes, fuel, and on the other hand you throw in the basket the Kukiz15 project reducing taxes from 23% to 22%. It's a shame and a disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know, Minister, do you know that only 300 litres of domestic fuel can be purchased in Poland and in other countries, in the UK, Australia, 3, 4, 5 times this much? [[How much can you buy in the United States?]] [[Voice from the hall: Saudi Arabia.]] How embarrassing are you, Minister? How can you not be ashamed? You're going through the Civic Platform. Just like the Civic Platform raised taxes, that's how you raise and do the same thing today. You're the Civic Platform of Encore. [[Applause]] [[Return the costs for the election campaign.]] Whose business are you really representing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Certainly not Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u347	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL - UED, or Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u348	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members! Do you remember such a press conference involving your leader, the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and then the press spokesperson of Adam Hofman's party, when he and the canister, which was empty, said that if the Law and Justice came to power, he would have the courage to lower the price of petrol by reducing excise duty? [[We've been downsizing.]] Do you remember this commitment? No? Don't you remember? [[Applause]] You do not have the courage to admit that as a result of this law, the average Pole will pay several hundred more, fueling and driving, using his vehicle. Do you have the shame of standing before Poles today and saying: then we lied, now we lie, tomorrow we will lie too? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u349	The Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! [[Ten cents, Minister.]] These questions have been repeated several times in recent days. I'd like to say this: this is a powerful hypocrisy, [[Applause]] Because you haven't noticed in eight years that they're stealing tens of billions of dollars a year. During these eight years 250 billion PLN disappeared. [[Where?]] You've vanished. And today, and today... [[Game in the O.R.]] And you knew that. [[Voice from the room: 10 pennies.]] You knew that. Why did you know? [[That's why there was a bill.]] Because we as the opposition, preparing for the election, were able to see that your money was falling apart. And we noticed. And that's why we gave the program 500+. We care about Poles, not you. And that's bullshit. [[You have to make money first.]] I want to tell you one thing. This amount of 250 billion came from the fact that... [[Easy, easy.]] ...year 2015, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] December, 2017, December... Listen, diesel... [[Because you're lying.]] ...fuel companies in Poland sold 51% more in 2017 than in 2015 with the same employment, with the same refineries. [[Applause]] And they got... Orlen himself made 7 billion profits. And today, when these presidents announced themselves... [[Voice from the hall: But they're Poles...]] ...that they're willing to take the fuel charge into the cost and take it into the cost... So these statements are their own, in their own name, in their own companies. [[Joy in the Chamber]] At the same time, shareholders remain twice as profitable as you have earned annually over the past years. That's how they take care of shareholders and citizens. That's the situation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why is fuel so expensive?]] So in all this hypocrisy and hypocrisy, it's just wandering down the street. [[Applause]] [[That's it. Pack your bags.]] And now, if we look at it this way, then these kind of questions and saying that it doesn't care about citizens that Poles are worse, it's hypocrisy. Fuel prices in Poland are not subject to the charge. They are dependent on fuel prices related to mining companies. So if that's what's going on, I want to say yes... [[Voice from the room: Hypocrisy.]] ...that in February 2014 I paid for the fuel 6.07 PLN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Where?]] [[Voice from the room: And now you don't pay...]] PLN 6.07 in 2014 [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Where?]] And today we have inflation, we have prices and what? And I want to say this... [[Voice from the room: No inflation.]] ...that I have full conviction... [[How much did the barrel cost?]] ...that we will not reach this price, even though there is a fuel charge and that Poles will be... [[Voice from the hall: In the shop.]] ...for that reason... [[The voice from the hall: Was it gasoline?]] ...thank you to the Law and Justice... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...that it's cleaner, because the issue fee... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[That's embarrassing.]] ...respectful country, the issue fee is a charge in such a way that fuel companies want to get involved in the fight for clean air. Because it's also fuel and clean... [[Voice from the room: What will the price be?]] It's clean air... There's going to be more and more of it thanks to this kind of charge. [[Some Members chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] So the national environmental fund... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Very nice. Let me just add that millions of apartments will be warmed up, fuel consumption will be reduced, citizens will live cheaper and greener. It's a big deal, and at the same time it won't affect the price of fuel. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u351	We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you is in favour of accepting the proposal to reject the whole print project 2542, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 199 against - 231. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment, the applicant proposes to amend the title of the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This bill is about how the piss spoils Poles. During the process over this law, the fuel price increased by 30 and 40 gr. Within a year, the fuel price has increased by 20-25%... [[Marek, have mercy.]] ...and in spite of the assurances made by Minister Tchórzewski, who here in May, as we discussed, at first reading, said that the price would not go up by a penny. Minister! So you supervised Orlen and Lotus that yesterday Prime Minister Morawiecki deprived you of your supervision. He took over the job himself. You've done so well with him. [[Applause]] I would like to propose an amendment that really reflects your intentions. This law should be called: a new fuel donation+ 10 gr, [[Applause]] because every Pole at the gas station will pay 10 gr more. You take the Poles, you reach into their pockets, it's 18 billion in 10 years. [[Applause]] [[Foreign companies will pay in Polish pocket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u353	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u354	Minister Tchórzewski! I wanted to ask you a question because you said Orlen made seven billion dollars in revenue and sold twice as much fuel. Then why are you taking money from Poles? Why should Poles pay more if you have so increased your income? Mr Morawiecki spoke here today about the fact that you are lowering taxes, and an hour later you are raising taxes. That's what you're saying, and that's what you're doing. Put yourselves in the driver's shoes. You spoke today about how you defend Poles against the financial markets. And do you know that in your governments - it's not just about fuel - 300% of the cost of motor insurance has increased? You know why? Because you take first care of financial markets, financial institutions, stability of financial institutions, and wallets of Poles... You know less about Polish wallets than you know about your wallet, and less about your wallet than the Poles know about your wallet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u355	The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't be as emotional as the Minister, but in fact, it would be worth repeating. From 2015 to 2017 - the increase by 50%, by 7 billion more profits in Orlena, is great, is great. So, what's the fuel can for this gas price increase? [[Applause]] It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. [[Voice from the gym: They need an election campaign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, on the one hand, Law and Justice increase the cost by 10 gr, and we don't know how much tomorrow will be. It is known that the Civic Platform has stopped at 30 gr in the fuel charge and the price of oil has been increased. Today it's about 10 gr. Question: "How much will you want to increase the price of fuel next year?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u357	Member Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u358	I try to do this rarely, but sometimes the nerves go away. These arguments are as thin as two razor blades, really. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Like you!]] I want to tell you something. Prime Minister, take the computer, see how fuel prices have evolved over the last two years. [[Voice from the hall: On the stock market.]] [[Up!]] It is true that liquid fuels are very costly and valuable. It's true that they affect inflation, but talking such nonsense that 10%... Even if it were at a price, and it's not going to go, as we hear it, it's pushing... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah. It's funny, maybe. That's right. The main reason for the price is the price of a barrel of oil. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Cabaret!]] Check this out, see how inflation and prices have evolved in the last two years. You have no idea, unfortunately, and you're giving people bullshit with impunity. It's just a fact. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u359	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 178 voted against - 223, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the sole request of a minority, the applicant shall propose the deletion in the Law amending the Article. 7 incorporating amendments to the Environmental Law Act. The question is raised by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Set up fuel+ once again you want to tax Poles. Why do you want to do this before vacation? Do you want Poles to pay more for their holiday trips? Why do you want Poles to pay 10 gr more for a liter of fuel? Almost 6 PLN per litre of fuel Isn't that enough? You want it to cost 7 zlotys? Do you know, Prime Minister, what percentage of the fuel price are taxes? I'll tell you, about 59%. the prices of a litre of fuel are taxes. I know, Prime Minister, that you are crashing in government limos and you don't know how much gas costs, but Poles really have to pay for it and Poles will really feel this change in their wallets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u361	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is some clarity and some truth in this matter, which you said to Minister Marek Suski. He resolved all doubts about this matter. Well, Mr.Marek Suski said: It is not true that the fuel will be used all over Poland. The fuel will only be used at gas stations. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u363	The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u364	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As Kukiz,15, we have requested that the 10 gr per litre issue fee be removed from this bill, an increase in fuel price. As Kukiz, 15, we are opposed to such solutions. We have never been, we are not, and we will not be in favour of draining citizens' pockets so that we can draw PLN 2.2.5 billion from the taxpayer's money, as the Sejm Analysis Office says in its documents. I have a question for you, Prime Minister Morawiecki: Why do you do this to ordinary citizens? Why do you allow Minister Tchórzewski to make such a terrible and shameful bill? You know that very well. I mean, I deeply believe that you don't want to, but you do. But we, Mr Morawiecki, as Kukiz.15, are appealing to you, Mr Morawiecki, but you will come to the stand and speak responsibly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not gonna go through the Platform, we're not gonna raise taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u365	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of a minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 198 voted against - 232, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before we vote on the whole, there are questions. Member of Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have a question: Did the Act on Electromobility of 11 January 2018 include an entry fee of PLN 30 for the entry into clean transport zones for the combustion car itself? So it would practically apply to all drivers of Poland. Has this fee in the electromobility bill been abolished by the Kukiz15 amendment? She's been lifted. And now what happens? Several months have passed, there is an analogy fee for entering the clean transport zones, once again, in another form - 25 PLN for entering the clean transport zones and also an hourly amount of the charge. And the question is: Has Kukiz15 again tabled such an amendment that has deleted fees in cities below 100,000. residents and reduced these charges in cities less than 100,000. The residents? If, in three months' time in the next law, you introduce another proposal to abolish such a fee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm ready. I'll keep making adjustments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u367	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I see the Prime Minister isn't here, he's gone... [[He got scared.]] ...he doesn't care if the Poles pay more for fuel, he's scared. But it's not weird, they've been driving him around forever. Prime Minister, all you have to do is not steal, and that's enough for everything. PiS politicians repeated these words like a mantra, bullshit Poles that there would be no new taxes. Today, Law and Justice throws a new tax on fuel to Poles, despite the fact that the fuel price already includes 60% tax. The new tax will make Poles pay more for commuting to work and companies - for fuel for their cars. This domino will end up on refrigerators where more expensive products will be found. So, ladies and gentlemen, if hypocrisy and lying could fly, then the right side of the room would levitate, would fly like, without trying on, a Persian carpet, and so is only red of shame. But, ladies and gentlemen, I promise you, we will soon be fulfilled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These promises of yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u369	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u370	There won't be any new taxes, because it's enough not to steal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Then why did you steal it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question. [[Voice from the room: Where is the Prime Minister?]] We are on an accelerated economics course, so that I will certainly not talk about 10 gr per fuel, because anyone who can read with understanding the bill knows the effect of the proposed change. But in this law we address the issues of eliminating the risks that are associated with the current sound. In the explanatory memorandum, we say that the risks faced by banks under the current law must be eliminated. My question is whether the costs of introducing such laws are to be borne only by the consumer and the trader. At the same time, we introduce into this legal act a statement which none of us have spoken of. Namely, what do you mean by any real action resulting in the permanent disposal of liquid fuels or biofuels in the territory of the Republic of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the conceptual network of the Polish system does such a concept occur? What does that mean? None of the government's representatives answered that question. How should an entrepreneur behave in relation to this proposal? Please answer this question if we are discussing the legal instrument to be used by entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u373	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u374	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Annual expenditure of the NFZ on combating respiratory diseases, cancers is about PLN 3.5 billion. That's what we got, among other things. in the succession of the Civic Platform governments. Under the rule of law, the way to fight smog was to raise, for example, the fees associated with the purchase of CNG. It was for the state of government that we were granted, that the judgment of the Court of Justice for the years 2007 to 2015 was handed down in respect of environmental pollution. Question to the Minister: Is it true that during the work in committees and during the plenary session, it was not noted that the funds from the Low Carbon Transport Fund, which today, among other things, have not been taken into account. We're supposed to introduce, we're going to fight smog, we're going to develop low-carbon transport, we're going to make grants to academics? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u375	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No. 2542 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Some Members chant: Where is the Prime Minister? Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the Prime Minister?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 199, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. I would like to draw your attention not to shout. You have a bad influence on the atmosphere and vote. [[Marshal, where's the Prime Minister?]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2499. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the draft Print Act No 2499, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 409, against - 6, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalev Wiślana with the Gulf of Gdańsk. We are returning to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2497. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2497 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 421 voted against - 3, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No. 2562. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2562, as a whole, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 432, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Parliamentary draft laws amending the House Property Act. We proceed to the third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please be more interested... [[The president's chair is busy.]] ...votes, not some incomprehensible phrase. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No. 2594. [[Mr. Marshal, the dolphin has revealed himself.]] The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the possibility of establishing a separate ownership of the premises. This is a necessary amendment to the National Property Resources Act. It only confirms what kind of legal bullshit you've pushed through, forcefully, under the cover of a dispute with the courts. [[Madame, I would like you to count on your words.]] We raised this problem in our position, but you rejected it, of course, because the opposition says so. I wanted to ask: Did you have to wait until a year, to the detriment of the residents who cannot buy apartments, especially in these older resources? Because of this big mistake of yours, notaries and courts are still refusing to enter in the eternal book. I wanted to ask you about the other thing. If it weren't for our Civic Platform, the amendment that forced you to take the initiative to propose the same identical amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'd still be getting into this and for the next year, to the detriment of the residents, wouldn't you be able to buy the apartments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u377	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 2594, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 425, against one. The Sejm passed a law amending the Property Act. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2606). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a Would any of your fellow Members like to speak? Mr Ryszard Terlecki, Law and Justice, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! I am making a formal request for a separate vote on the amendments in the first, second and third committees. [[Voice from the room: Briefly, concisely and on the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u379	Wait a minute. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Reason!]] ...Mr. Marshal... Where's... [[Game in the O.R.]] One, two, three. Make up what committees it's all about. [[Voice from the Chamber: I in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u380	Mr. Marshal, this concerns the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on the Ethics of Parliament. [[Is the motion in writing, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u381	This is not a formal application, it does not have to be made in writing. [[Game in the O.R.]] High Seym! I call again, again, and again, by kindness: art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 and Article 4 Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. On the question whether anyone wants to speak, Mr Terlecki came forward and made such proposals that we will have to vote on. [[But it's against the rules.]] So let me remind you, there's been a motion for a separate vote... [[Voice in the courtroom: Negative.]] ...on proposals for changes in the personal compositions of the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, as well as the Committee on the Ethics of the Polish People's Republic. [[Game in the O.R.]] I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But the contrary, Mr. Marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the hall: What shall we vote?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, paragraph 9...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What is the point in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm?]] [[The auditorium's voice:...the convention should give an opinion...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a 10-minute break at the request of the Modern Club. I'm telling you this isn't a formal application, so it doesn't concern... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please take a good look at the Rules of Procedure and the consequences of voting on this point. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 22 hours 20 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda. I would like to inform the High House that the matter has been discussed at the Senior Convention meeting. Mr Terlecki, on behalf of the applicants, withdrew his proposal to vote on the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union. [[Applause]] So we're going to vote as follows. First, of course, I will put to the vote a proposal for a separate vote on the two committees, then we will vote on the changes in the two separate committees and then on the whole. We also agreed that if any of the clubs felt injured or... [[Don't be.]] ...then we will return to this matter tomorrow at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors Convention, so that there may be further votes tomorrow evening on changes in the committee's personal compositions. We can proceed with the vote. A proposal was tabled for a separate vote on proposals for changes in the personal compositions of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 174, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on a change in the composition of the National Defence Committee. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Pawłowski to be a member of this committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] 418 Members voted. Four Members abstained in voting 200 against - 214. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a change in the composition of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mrs Ewa Lieder to be a member of this committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: This hasn't happened yet.]] 419 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 194 against - 223. The Sejm rejected the offer. [[Democratic package.]] We proceed with the vote on the whole proposal. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2606, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. There have been 13 abstentions in favour of 357 against - 45. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We're coming... Oh, I'm sorry, we've talked about this. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 34 hours 20 min 38]] I'll resume the session after recess. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development (prints No. 2576 and 2593). I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development, contained in print No. 2593. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 4 June 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 5 June 2018, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft print law No 2576. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u383	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to speak with Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Director! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development, print No. 2576. This draft law aims to increase the spending limits of the National Institute of Freedom. The National Freedom Institute is implementing a state policy for the development of civil society based on the principles of subsidiarity, partnership, efficiency, competitiveness and transparency. The National Freedom Institute manages civil society development programmes. The task of the National Institute of Freedom is to implement actions to promote the development of the civil community and civil society in the Republic of Poland, in particular by enhancing the institutional efficiency of NGOs and other organised forms of civil society, their independence and professionalism, while preserving their civil character. It is also the task of the National Institute to strengthen the capacity of NGOs and other organised forms of civil society. In addition, the main tasks of the National Institute are to support the involvement of citizens, NGOs and other organised forms of civil society in public life, as well as processes for shaping public policies and decision-making; to support citizens' control over the functioning of public institutions and public trust institutions and to increase their transparency and compliance with the principles of good governance; to promote grassroots civic activity; to strengthen and release the reserves of social ethos of citizens; to promote and promote volunteering; to maintain and disseminate culture and national and local traditions; to cultivate Polishness and to develop national, civic and cultural awareness; and to promote solidarity and social sensitivity; to promote respect and protection of human rights and civil rights; to educate citizens and to develop civic attitudes; to promote the protection of the environment and animal rights. In May 2018, after prior agreement with the members of the Council of Ministers and holding a public consultation with non-governmental organisations and an opinion with other public administrations... These are government programmes, civil society development programmes within the meaning of Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1th Act: The Civil Organisation Development Programme where support will be available for: mission implementation and institutional development of civic organisations, building the financial stability of civil organisations, funding the contribution of own organisations applying for funding from international programmes, the operation of civil and local media; The Boy Scouts Development Programme; the Solidarity Corps development programme. The total budget of the National Institute of Freedom for grants from the state budget and the system of gambling aid under the Civil Society Development Fund will amount to about PLN 100.140 million per year. The implementation of these programmes requires an appropriate and efficient managing authority. The impact assessment on the draft law provides that the funds from the subjective grant of PLN 3.6 million per year are insufficient and allow the creation of around PLN 3.6 million. 22 jobs, and 60 jobs are needed to carry out all tasks of the National Freedom Institute. In order to guarantee the proper and professional performance of the tasks, it is necessary to increase and provide new sources of funding for the National Institute of Freedom. In order to allow for the adoption of an increased grant under consideration by the National Freedom Institute, the draft law amends the article. 46. 1 law by increasing expenditure limits of the National Institute of Freedom. In addition, the revised provision takes into account the costs of renovating the park for the permanent seat of the National Institute of Liberty. The provision also takes into account the annual increase from 2019 in the expenditure limit under the special-purpose subsidy for the implementation of the increased number of tasks of the national institute. High Izbo! Following a thorough analysis of the proposed law, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u385	Thank you, Member. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development, print No. 2576. Ladies and gentlemen, when the bill was made, in the autumn of Ub. The Institute was established, there were a number of doubts both about NGOs and about the Ombudsman, as well as about the Confederations of the Council of Europe's International Non-Governmental Organisations. Today we have a new project that increases the limits, significantly increasing the limits, and unfortunately the doubts remain. The Act of 17 September 2017 assumes that the budget of the national institute for the years 2017 to 2026 will amount to 35 660 thousand, i.e. on average almost 4 million a year. It was established arbitraryly by the President of the Committee on Public Benefit of Minister Piotr Gliński, who oversees the work of the National Institute. The new project prepared by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister assumes a budget of 387 380 thousand, i.e. an average of 40 million a year, and in 2019 - 61 million. In addition, there is also money from the Civil Initiative Fund with an annual budget of 60 million and the Civil Society Support Fund with a budget of 4%. proceeds from gambling. The government estimates that this year's revenue is around 60 and 100 million. After the government correction the NIW will therefore have to distribute about 160 to 200 million a year. The money will go to the new government support programmes of NGOs. The most important in their name is the term "government," because they were not consulted with non-governmental organisations, or even, and this is very interesting... [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] ...with the Council of the National Institute of Liberty, which is the advisory body of the director of NIW Wojciech Kaczmarczyk. Weronika Czyżewska-Waglowska, a member of the NIW Council and the Vice President of the National Federation of NGOs said: As a council we met once, during its adoption. There hasn't been any information coming our way since. The programme of the new budget has not been consulted. The Council has clearly defined tasks and competences, including: This is the opinion of the draft programmes to support civil society development or the draft annual financial plan. I have the assurance that the meeting will take place soon and that it will be linked to the revision of the business plan and the financial plan for 2018. Hence the first question, whether there was such a meeting and whether there was such information. The government wants to launch three new programmes: the Scouting Development Programme, the Volunteering Development Programme, the Solidarity Corps and the Civil Organisation Development Programme. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the project: The main aim of the draft programmes is to support the construction of a strong, efficient civil sector, which, while preserving its diversity and independence, will at the same time be a real and equal partner in public and social life for institutions of political, economic, media or local government. Weronika Czyżewska-Waglowska: It is difficult to comment on this decision at this moment, because we still do not know the details of these programs. First of all, the National Civil Society Development Support Programme, which was to be the foundation for all other programmes, has not yet been established. This is where the priorities and directions of support should come from. The money will also go to the repair of the premises. In 2019 designers want to allocate as much as 20 million. This amount is equal to half of the annual grant to NGOs from the State budget. The money's supposed to go to work, too. In the assessment of the September 2017 draft law, funds of 3,6 million were set up for this purpose. According to the Prime Minister's Office, it was enough to create 22 posts. But that's not enough. The NIW is preparing to carry out tasks that we cannot learn details about, and it needs 60 jobs. The budget is therefore to be increased to almost PLN 9 million. On the BIP website it is difficult to find traces of NIW activity. We talked at the committee meeting about the fact that there is still no website. I will also quote Mrs Veronica Czyżewska-Waglowska: First of all, the institute should consult widely on all the programmes and projects it is preparing. Not in closed, expert groups, but in the whole environment. In my opinion, the Institute should also respond to draft legislation prepared in ministries on freedom and civic activity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm running out of time. Minister, would you like to introduce us in detail, because, as far as we know, which organizations - there are probably more than 500 of them - e.g. recently won the FIO competition, so we don't know which organizations have fallen off. And there's over 2,000 of them. It is also difficult to find criteria for assessing applications submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u387	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u388	Thank you. Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of NGOs is that they are non-governmental. Meanwhile, you have created an institute of freedom, criticized by many NGOs and representatives, including the Ombudsman and the OFOP. [[I didn't hear anyone criticize.]] This institute unfortunately centralises the activities of non-governmental organisations, affecting quite well developed systems and ways of communicating between public administration and organisations. What is the effect of this institute? The law you are proposing today has not been consulted with the environment, has not been consulted with NGOs. Therefore, they had no impact on the amount of funding you would like to increase in the Institute's funding or on what this money is to be spent on. Let us remind you that the Institute was supposed to support the activities of NGOs. However, there is still no civil society development programme announced two years ago. When will he be, Minister? The budget is increasing significantly, but 20 million of this budget will be devoted to the renovation of the Institute's headquarters. Is this really necessary for the development of civil society? An extra 60 jobs. Are they really needed for the development of civil society? Do we need organisations that work and will work in the future? It's always good when extra money goes to NGOs. It is wrong if they go to an institution that has unclear records in the law, unclear competences, unclear criteria that can be interpreted in different ways. Unfortunately, this leads to the suspicion that the money you have in this law will also be passed on and spent in a vague way. My question, Minister: Who was the bill consulted with? Why do you want to process this project so quickly? Is this really the next job expenses, the next million for renovations so necessary? When will the promised civil society development programme be launched? And one more thing. The FIO budget is not increasing. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u389	Thank you. I ask Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u390	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development, print No. 2576. Ladies and gentlemen! A justification as beautiful as the Potemkin village. The main task of the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development is to distribute money between NGOs. The Institute operates at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is expected to raise, as the government side emphasises, the rank of civil society, only that civil society already has this The PiS government's enthusiasm is not shared. It's a muzzle founded on the third sector," says NGO representatives. They add that there is a danger that the funds will only receive government-friendly institutions. Previously, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights assessed that the Act on the National Institute of Freedom was a retreat from the idea of supporting civil society development and a systemic threat to the independent functioning of NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, in turn, the Ombudsman pointed out, among others: the lack of sufficient guarantees that the new institution will be immune to political influence. The government was silent. By the time, because today we learn that not only that money can be granted discretionaryly, depending on whims, it is not yet in the new law specific sharpenings for what. And there are a lot of them, because by 2026 about 40 million a year. There's one exception, though. It is particularly worrying that in 2019, i.e. in the election year, the government planned to spend as much as PLN 60 million on the Institute's expenditure. Would that be a silent contribution to the PiS campaign in the parliamentary elections? [[We're not PSL.]] This may be the famous five Moravians, although here actually ten, because according to our calculations it is almost a 10-fold increase in the so-called budget. The National Freedom Institute. Is the prophecy of President Andrzej Duda once again fulfilled, which last year, in Otwock, at the party rally, gave us a statement: the motherland of the country of the country will be returned to us, Lord? The prophecy, ladies and gentlemen, was fulfilled quickly. Let me show you some examples. Mr Marcin Flakiewicz, Councilman of PiS, hugged 584 thousand. zł. Mrs. Martyna Wojciechowska, Councilwoman of the PiS, hugged 784 thousand. zł. Mr. Jakub Opara hugged 752,000. zł. [[Bravo!]] And many, many others, but here is the cherry on the cake, and I'm sorry, I would even say here: plum, because Mr.Paul Śliwa, Councilman of PiS, hugged 1600 thousand. But that money just belonged to them. Ladies and gentlemen! After the PiS aldermen, is it time for the PiS foundation? Thank you very much, but we're not gonna put our hands on this hucklehead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u391	Mr Jacek Wilk, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I'm embarrassed to have to speak again about another idiotic project, but there's nothing to be surprised about, because Law and Justice have been running governments under the slogan of false consciousness from the beginning. That was the first speech by President Kaczyński, who spoke a lot about false consciousness. That's exactly what this concept is all about, this project. National Freedom Institute. The lie is already included in the title. Let us ask ourselves a simple question: Is freedom coming from the fact that we are creating a new institution, some new group of officials, some new administration, or is it coming from the fact that we are lowering taxes, deregulation, increasing civil liberties? The other one, of course. Since the arrival of offices, officials and institutions, freedom has never increased, on the contrary. The expenditure of the state budget in the years 2017-202026 is to amount to 387 380 000. zł on the same institute of enslavement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute scandal. First, you take that money from someone's taxes, for example. citizens, companies, etc., etc., and then they give themselves to some bureaucratic monster who, according to his own will, is to pass on to various institutions in the name of the so-called. freedom of money according to undefined criteria. After all, it is nothing but bribing or corrupting various kinds of institutions, so that they sing according to what the government thinks and what the government wants to hear. Ladies and gentlemen! There are four kinds of spending money: their own for their own needs, this is the first way, their own for other people's needs, other people's money for their own needs and other people's money for their own needs. The third and fourth are the dumbest and worst, but they are always used by socialists. That's how it is in this case. So, ladies and gentlemen, in non-governmental institutions, it's not about corrupting them with other people's money stolen in taxes, it's about making them really non-governmental. A non-governmental institution operates when it is independent of the government. When she starts to depend on the government, it has nothing to do with independence and there is no freedom to talk about here. Another lie. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would agree to an amendment that would simply eliminate this nonsense and this stupidity in its entirety, the so-called one. Institute. On the other hand, in this form it requires only laughing. Then there is my question to the Minister: Minister, do you have the mind and dignity of a man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u393	Two people have entered the list of Members. Would any of you like to join us? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. We begin with Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revised regulations take into account the costs of renovating the facility, intended for the permanent seat of the National Institute of Freedom. This is equal to half of the annual grant to non-governmental organisations from the state budget. I wanted to ask here: What is the basis of this calculation, whether there are any projects, operations, costs, scope of work and description of what this renovation will involve? 20 million PLN, you will grant me, is an amount of wondering when it comes to renovation of the facility, even if it is historic or very destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u395	Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you about the increase in the limit, because there is no information in the BIP, there is no website, really if anyone is interested in this topic, there is nowhere to get reliable information. In view of this raised limit, how much money will actually reach the beneficiaries? I'm not talking about headquarters, I'm not talking about jobs. Only to NGOs themselves. I also want to ask, because of course there are allegations of biased treatment of certain categories of organization, why we consistently refuse money from the Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights or the Foundation We give the Children Force. I want to ask... [[Game in the O.R.]] You're bothering me. ...how much of that money he got last year Caritas. And if you're saying that you're happy that this year this money has gone to new, inexperienced organisations, those that really need to appear on the market of this civil movement, where can I gain the knowledge that these are such organisations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u397	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I would like to draw attention to one important thing. Here, some of the Members of Parliament presented this project as if we had already decided on the shape of the budget and funding of the National Institute of Freedom for the following year. I stress that's not what this is all about. It's just an increase in maximum limits. Each time the Sejm, setting the level of funding for the National Institute of Freedom in individual budgets for the following years, will decide this in detail and the State will have control over it as parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the activities of the National Institute of Freedom are concerned, the question was included in the speech by Mrs Hanaczyk and Mrs Rosa - and I would just like to point out that during the semi-annual existence of the National Institute of Freedom, the National Institute of Freedom held a grant contest in the Civil Initiative Fund programme. About 3,000. more than 500 offers from all over the country were selected. As far as the details are concerned, of course we will put this in writing, because it would have to be very detailed information. In total, over 90 million PLN will be allocated to organisations from this programme for annual and two-year projects. 20 micro-grant operators for small organisations and local initiatives were selected in the competition in all voivodships. Thanks to changes in the rules of the competition 70% offers selected for funding come from organisations which have not yet benefited from the programme, 60% The selected offers come from small organisations with a budget of up to 100,000. zł, also 60% The selected offers come from organizations from small towns, up to 50,000. zł. Organisations can now allocate up to 20% of grants to institutional development tasks. As far as other aspects of the functioning of the National Institute of Freedom are concerned, this is probably the most up-to-date issue. Together with GIODO, he is currently running an information and training campaign on GDPR, aimed at social organisations across the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Rosa asked about the National Programme to support the development of civil society. It has actually started, it is designed segmentally, these three programmes that were mentioned and in the justification for the proposal for an amendment, and in the committee, these are the first elements of this programme that will develop further. There were also questions about public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the project was addressed by the Council of Public Interests without commenting and supporting the project. Representatives of social organisations are taking part in this Council. Mr Jarubas asked why in 2019 as many as 60 million were earmarked for the activities of the National Institute of Freedom in the electoral year. Mr President, it so happens that during the election year it was necessary to modernise the building, an object on the street. Parking maid. And the 20 million, which greatly increase this amount, only concerns the modernisation of this facility, the headquarters of the institute. In addition to this difference, funding is foreseen at the same level as in the following years. As regards the costs of upgrading this facility on the street. The Park - this is what Mrs Płępek asked - were made estimates a few years ago, generally for modernisation purposes, in general for the purposes of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. At that time, they were about 15 and 16 million. That's on the scale of the last few years. [[What a range, I asked.]] Comprehensive modernisation, Member, for a specific institution. [[You can build a new building for that amount.]] As for the information that Mrs Hanajczyk asked, how much of this money will go to the beneficiaries, this is very detailed. On an annual basis, PLN 30 million. The maximum of course, because we are talking about the limit, which will then be specified by the Sejm in the Budget Act. As regards details concerning e.g. entities receiving funding, all this information is available on the fio.niv website. gov.pl. They are all public and to look, but of course we will also respond in writing. I have information that these foundations, which Mrs Hanajczyk asked, have not yet applied to the National Institute of Freedom. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's all part of my explanation. Please accept the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u399	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law (print No 2434). I ask Senator Stanisław Gogach to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law adopted by the Senate in its resolution and contained in print No 566. This, of course, was also sent to the Sejm. The purpose of this submission is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 20 April 2017, sygn. Act K 10/15, declaring that the provisions of the Act of 14 March 2003 on a national referendum and the Act of 15 September 2000 on a local referendum are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It would be an art. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second sentence of the National referendum Act to the extent that it excludes the admissibility of the reopening of proceedings and Article 3 Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd sentence of the Law of 15 September 2000 on a local referendum in so far as it excludes the admissibility of the reopening of proceedings. As the Constitutional Tribunal states, these are not compatible with the Article. 45 constitutions, that is, the article that says that everyone has the right to an open and fair examination of their case and is incompatible with the article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two constitutions, which this article says, that the bill cannot close anybody's judicial path. I would like to point out that in the provisions which have now been contested, Article. 35 states that the decision of the district court within 24 hours of its delivery serves to appeal to the court of appeal. The Court of Appeal of three Judges shall recognise the complaint in non-trial proceedings in the procedure and within the time limit referred to in paragraph. 2, which means within 24 hours. The decision of the Court of Appeal shall not be subject to appeal and shall be immediately enforced. By contrast, Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should be amended accordingly. 44 also points out such time limits as to the fact that the decision of the district court shall be subject to a complaint within 24 hours before the appeal court, which shall consider the complaint within 24 hours, and also in the same way as in the case of Article. 44, the decision of the Court of Appeal shall not be subject to a legal measure and shall be immediately enforced. The Senate has proposed such a solution, so that in the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In the third sentence of the third sentence, the wording of the third sentence was drafted precisely in such a way that the decision of the Court of Appeal is not subject to a cassation appeal and is immediately enforceable. At this point we delete the words accordingly: there is no legal measure, in one law, in the other we delete: there is no appeal, but we write in this place that there is no cassation action, i.e. there is no cassation action in the local referendum law and there is no cassation action in the national referendum law. That means that all other remedies and remedies are available, which means that the right to resume... This gives us the opportunity to resume the proceedings. The Constitutional Tribunal has taken the view that the deadlines contained in the local referendum and national referendum laws are very short terms. This is due to the atmosphere that it is then, to a referendum, i.e. quick deadlines and when the issue of false entries in leaflets or posters is raised, it requires quick decisions. The Constitutional Tribunal has taken the view that maintaining the speed of these time limits must not render the person concerned deprived of the right to review, the possibility of appeal, the exercise of a legal remedy or the possibility to challenge that judgment. So that I ask the Sejm to accept this legislative proposal, which we are presenting as the Senate. It is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, of that judgment which I referred to here. I'm asking you to analyze the solution we're proposing that this sentence be executed. Our proposal is as I just presented it. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u401	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to speak. Senator, please stay here, or there may be questions. [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u402	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club Law and Justice a position regarding the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law, print No 2434. The aim of the project is to introduce the possibility of reopening proceedings after the decision of the referenda court in matters relating to the dissemination of false information in statements, leaflets, that is what you just spoke about during the referenda campaign. The draft adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring that the provisions of the National referendum Act of 14 March 2003 and the Local referendum of 15 September 2000 are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Currently, a case may be brought before the Court of Appeal, i.e. the Court of Appeal, before the Second Court, but it is not possible to request the reopening of proceedings. The proposed law will introduce this possibility so that such activities can take place in law. The reopening institution is intended to enable, in particularly justified cases, the reopening of a case which has already been brought to an end by a final and final judgment. The action for reopening proceedings is therefore an exception to the principle of the stability of final decisions, which is essential from a formal point of view as regards the rule of law - the principles of protection of trust in the State and the law and the right to settle a judicial case within a reasonable period of time. As for the other details, I will no longer bring them closer, because the senator has presented these points and paragraphs. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to proceed over this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u403	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform regarding the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law, print No 2434. This is the introduction to the legal order of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017, which concerns a local referendum, i.e. Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The third sentence, which states that, after the final judgment of the Court of Appeal in referenda, there is no appeal. In turn, in the 2003 national referendum law, there in Article. 35, and here in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, it is said that there is no appeal. The Court held that these two provisions concerning these two referenda were incompatible with the Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. It turns out that according to the Constitutional Court, it should be entitled to a legal measure, namely one such as that of the Constitutional Tribunal. reopening of proceedings pursuant to Article. 399 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, this is the section on the reopening of the proceedings. And even after a final ruling, given, of course, the stability of the law, it should be appropriate to reopen the procedure. On the one hand, to ensure that an entity which has the right to do so has such a legal measure, and on the other hand, it is an exemption, of course, from stability and certain final decisions. It is a matter for this entity to feel that the State is interested in reopening the procedure and the judgment which brings new circumstances, a judgment other than the previous one. Such a legal measure should therefore be granted to any legal entity which has participated in the proceedings of a district court which gives its ruling and subsequently of the appeal court. In view of these new circumstances and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, I request further legislative work on behalf of the Platform Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u405	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech Bakun to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Tall little Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour and duty to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act, print No 2434. Without discussing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, of course, as a Kukiz club15, we agree to continue to proceed over the above mentioned. The bill. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of Marshal Kuchciński, who is no longer present, to the fact that there is a printing project 2297 in the Seym freezer, which concerns the same issue, namely the amendment of the local referendum law prepared by Mr Jarosław Sachajka, which improves some of the issues at issue in the referendum act, as well as, it can be said, liberalising and bringing closer to citizens the institution of the referendum, as many times fell from this speaker, as a celebration of democracy, in this case the celebration of local democracy. Back to the 2434 print project, I would like to say that as much as possible, the Kukiz15 club tends to continue to process this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u407	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Mark Owl, so I invite Mr Krzysztof Pasyk. The Member made his statement in writing, indeed. That's the part that's left. We also have a speech from Mr Ireneus Profits, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u408	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. The draft law prepared by the group of senators aims to align the law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017, which states that the provisions of the National referendum Act and the Local referendum Act are incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment. Act K 10/15 found the provisions of Article incompatible with the Constitution. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3nd sentence of the National referendum Act and Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd sentence of the Local referendum Act, according to which no appeal in the form of an application for the reopening of proceedings is granted from the provisions of the appeal court in matters relating to the dissemination of false information in referenda material. At present, both laws assume that where materials relating to national or local referendums, e.g. Posters, leaflets, passwords and statements contain false information, each interested party has the opportunity to apply for a decision to the district court, among others. prohibit the dissemination of such information, order the rectification of such information and apologies to the person whose personal property has been violated. The district court shall recognise the application within 24 hours in non-trial proceedings. The proceedings of the district court within 24 hours of its date of issue shall be served by appeal to the court of appeal. The Court of Appeal of 3 Judges shall recognise a complaint in non-trial proceedings, including within 24 hours. The proceedings of the Court of Appeal shall be immediately enforced and shall not be subject to an appeal, which means that, unlike the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the proceedings may not be renewed if such factual circumstances or means of evidence are detected which could affect the outcome of the case and which the party could not have benefited from earlier. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that in the so-called. referenda proceedings have very short time limits for the examination of the case at first and second instance to ensure that a decision is given in such a time that voters can, on the one hand, read the findings of the court before the day of the vote and, on the other hand, that a fair pre-election debate, free from pathology related to the dissemination of false messages, takes place for a sufficiently long period of time to form the will of voters. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal noted that the simplification and shortening of proceedings cannot lead to a finding that is not true, which does not correspond to the requirements of the rule of law. He pointed out that it should be possible to touch the final judgment of the court, which is seriously flawed. This applies in particular to a situation in which new evidence will emerge after the judgment has been given, which shows that the final judgment does not correspond to reality. The Constitutional Tribunal also noted that, in the case of electoral proceedings, the risk of misconceptions is significantly increased due to their speed. It is worth noting that, in 1470 cases relating to the dissemination of false information in electoral material conducted in 2014 and 2017 electoral mode, i.e. concerning the 2014 local elections and the European Parliament elections and the 2015 presidential and parliamentary elections, the resumption of proceedings was requested only in four cases. The proposed regulation will allow individuals whose personal property has been affected by the dissemination of false information in referendum campaigns, to request that proceedings be reopened in the event of a court order being issued in referenda mode in the above mentioned above. cases, e.g. in the event of the discovery of such facts or evidence which could affect the outcome of the case and which the party could not have benefited from earlier. The draft law is extremely important and is moving towards the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is important because it is about fulfilling justice related to the essence of the case, investigating the truth. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will support the Senate's draft law on amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u409	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask a question at this point in the meeting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The stated objective of the proposed amendments is to introduce the possibility of reopening proceedings after the decision of the referenda court in matters relating to the dissemination of false information. By the way, I wanted to highlight one more important thing about electoral or referendum campaigns. Many candidates felt how difficult it was to assert their rights at the right time if they had been discussed in the media during the election campaign. I therefore wanted to ask whether a legally clear procedure for dealing with such situations could be sanctioned. To which court should I bring claims: applicable to the place of the offence or the registered office of the publisher? In this field, there is usually a chronicity and cases in election mode are not resolved in due time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u411	But my question is, who did you ask your question to? [[It's for you.]] It's for the senator. Minister, would you like to speak as well? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. Then let the senator... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It wasn't in that context. Senator, please speak. And then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u412	At the stage of our Senate work, this issue was not raised, but it seems that territorial jurisdiction is the best. It is the territorial jurisdiction of this district court and the appeal to which this appeal will be brought, and then the appeal against the appeal, I am talking about the application of an appeal, i.e. the reopening of this procedure. Let me remind you that this is about the referendum law: the local referendum and the national referendum. [[Such cases also occur in referendums.]] Yeah, of course, but those issues weren't exactly... That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u413	Now I'll have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michael Wójcik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u414	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Let me put it briefly: this is a project that really is of a purely technical nature, but it is extremely important, which has been highlighted by several people, because the system must be consistent, this consistency of the system must be ensured. If the Constitutional Tribunal - not only in this one judgment, but also in a few earlier rulings, as was pointed out in the Senate during the debate - paid attention precisely to the fact that the system should be supplemented so that the two laws we are talking about, the national referendum law and the second law, the local referendum... Indeed, two provisions should be supplemented in such a way that an exceptional remedy, which is a resumption, can be used. Of course, this provision is written in a rather specific way, because it really needs to be read a contrario - in the Senate we also discussed about it - while there is no doubt that if new circumstances, new facts, all these grounds that give us the opportunity to resume the proceedings, which are set out in the Code of Civil Procedure... It is difficult to say here that the party, the victim in this case, is to be deprived of the right to pursue a certain right, to carry out certain actions. This is about correcting false information, which appears in leaflets, in documents of various kinds, statements. Why? It's really about the idea of justice that we talk about very often here. There is a significant systemic gap and this had to be improved. I would like to thank you very warmly - here I would like to thank the Senator - also the entire higher House, for leaning on this subject and that we are simply supplementing these two laws, two provisions in fact, with this change in the fact that this extraordinary appeal measure can be applied. Good. There was a question of mustard after dinner, because it often turns out that these circumstances come to light when there is already a valid resolution. Of course, the procedure is extremely fast, which is understandable - here I refer to the speech of the Member - because the district court has 24 hours since the application is filed. The county court will then file a complaint and the court will have 24 hours to settle the case. On the other hand, there are two time limits when the Code of Civil Procedure resumes on a general basis: no later than 10 years from the date of the decision's validity and 3 months from the time of the hearing. So even if it is mustard after dinner, as some say, it is absolutely opposite to the idea of justice. Such situations are not common, because it is true - the figures were quoted by the Member, and I no longer remember exactly what he said - that these things may not be much, but in fact in a few cases they were asked to be resumed. Today it will be possible if we improve the legal system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u415	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u416	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to present our position on the Senate bill amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law (print No 2434). Today's proposal aims to align the right with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 April 2017 declaring the provisions of national referendum laws incompatible with the Constitution and the local referendum. The proposal introduces the possibility of reopening proceedings following the decision of the Court of Justice in matters relating to the dissemination of false information in statements, leaflets, etc. during the referendum campaign. In the case of the Local referendum law: If the posters, passwords, leaflets, statements or other forms of propaganda and agitation contain false data and information, the district court may be asked for: the confiscation of such materials; the issue of a ban on their publication; the order for correction; the order for an apology to be spoken; the order for the participant to proceed with payment of up to 10 000. PLN for a charity; convictions from a participant in proceedings to the applicant of the same amount as compensation. At present, the rules provide that the district court shall recognise these applications within 24 hours in non-trial proceedings. An appeal may be lodged, including within 24 hours, with the order of the Court of Appeal (II instance), after which a request for reopening of proceedings may not be submitted. This last provision challenged the Constitutional Court by judgment of 20 April 2017. The Court pointed out that in the so-called case law. referenda proceedings are very short time limits for the examination of the case at first and second instance to ensure that the decision is issued in such a time that voters can, on the one hand, read the court's findings before the day of the vote and, on the other hand, that a fair pre-election debate, free from pathology related to the dissemination of false messages, takes place for a sufficiently long period of time to form the will of voters. However, according to the TK, the simplification and shortening of the procedure must not result in a finding which is incorrect, i.e. not in line with the requirements of the rule of law. He pointed out that it should be possible to touch the final judgment of the court, which is seriously flawed. This applies in particular to a situation in which new evidence emerges as soon as the judgment is delivered, which shows that the final judgment does not correspond to the reality - underlined in the explanatory memorandum. TK also noted that in the case of electoral proceedings, due to their speed, the risk of misconceptions is significantly increased. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, in the case of decisions in a special electoral procedure, the speed of proceedings is crucial. What will happen to the victim from a favourable judgment when he is voted out, in this case, after the referendum? However, the speed and simplification of the procedure must not lead to a limitation of the right to raise a judgment in the event of serious (qualified) defects. The current exclusion of the possibility to bring forward judgments in the present case has infringed the constitutional right to consider the matter in fair proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u417	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Senate a draft law amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act, print No 2434, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. I would first ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement once again concerns the Silesian Museum. The latest press reports on the catastrophic condition of the Silesian Museum in Katowice, which was just put into service, are appalling. Building a museum is about 320 million, as it turns out today, probably wasted. There is a situation that forces me to present today with a request to make available all documentation related to the construction and operation of the museum before and after its opening, a request for control, which will allow me to actually identify the problems and determine the degree of safety of the collections and people staying in the building of the Silesian Museum, and thus to make public these messages important for the safety of visitors and workers. If the media reports and statements of the head of the institution are true and I have the right to believe that this is the case, then I demand that those who have had the legal responsibility to supervise the construction work be held accountable and are responsible for building a building that does not meet the safety standards. I have every right to do so, because four years ago I addressed the authorities of the province, the Marshal's office and the media from which the public expected reliable information, both in cases related to the attempt to liquidate the Upper Silesian Museum in Bytom - 100 years old - and with questions about the construction of a new building. Unfortunately, the authorities of the Śląskie voivodship, the Marshal's office - I will remind you that the coalition of the Civic Platform, the PSL and the Silesian Autonomy Movement is now established - to ask questions about the technical state of the object answered me enigmatically: that everything is okay, that humidity is as it should be, that all objects are not at risk and that really why I ask about the obvious things. It turns out that we were deliberately and consciously misled by the inhabitants of the region, writing, among others, that the humidity is at the right level, and that the workers and collections were not He's not threatening. I would like to know the truth and therefore ask for a detailed and specific analysis of the problem and the answer to the question about the safety of people and collections in the building of the Silesian Museum in Katowice. I must remind you that the opening of the Silesian Museum has been postponed due to the technical conditions which I presented in my interpellations on the basis of information from people, experts concerned about this state of affairs. I call for caution, attention to national interests and respect for public money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u419	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2018 was established by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in the year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by our homeland. I would like to inform you that including myself in commemoration celebrations is an extremely important event for the Polish people, I organized in cooperation with the Catholic High School of General Education for them. Fr. Marcin Popiela in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie historical and literary competition Mon. Thank you for your independence. The letter to... The honorary patronage over the competition was taken by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk. Thank you very much for your kindness, Minister. Participants of the competition, pupils of primary and secondary schools were tasked with writing a letter to the person who, through their activities and commitment, contributed to Poland regaining independence in 1918 and defending it. It could have been both a great historical figure, it could have been a member of the family of the author of the letter or one of the local heroes. The aim of the competition was among others. deepening the historical knowledge of participants both nationwide and local, learning about the history of their family, in particular the participation of their members in the fight for independence and sovereignty of Poland, and supporting family traditions and thus shaping patriotic attitudes among authors. In addition, we promoted a very beautiful, traditional and somewhat forgotten way of communicating among young people, which was writing letters. The competition met with a great deal of interest. 206 letters were received from four voivodships: Lubelskie, Małopolskie, Mazowieckie and Świętokrzyskie. The competition, which was supposed to be a local competition covering only Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, was transformed into a regional competition. The competition committee therefore faced a major challenge because the letters were extremely beautiful, touching and often very interesting in form. Among the recipients were both the fathers of independence, Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Wojciech Korfanty and Ignacy Jan Paderewski, military commander, e.g. General Józef Haller, but also family members. And it was these very personal family letters that carried the greatest emotional load. At the same time, they showed that we managed to achieve our goals, because one of the participants wrote in a letter addressed to her great-grandmother that, if not for participating in the competition, I thank you for the Independent, she would never have known so well the history of her family. The level of work is evidenced by the fact that over 70 contestants were awarded. They received diplomas and historical books as a reward. The ceremony of the competition took place on 14 May 2018 in the Gallery of Urban Photography of the Centre for Culture in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. More than 100 people, students, parents, teachers and local authorities participated. Among the numerous laureates I would like to mention only a few names: Patryka Bojakowski from Szkoł No 3 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, Katarzyna Stojek from High School No 2 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, Karolina Sitarski from High School No 1 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Alicja Żuchowska from Primary School in Banska Wyżna, Marta Jakubowska from Secondary School in Ćmielów, Krzysztof Łupina from Secondary School in Szewno, Konrad Flis from Secondary School in Bielina and Krzysztof Kaszuba from Public Primary School No 1 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. Most letters were received from the School Complex. Jadrzej Śniadeckiego in Pawni, Primary School No. 21 Queen Jadwiga in Lublin and Primary School in Wymysław, gm. Kuns. It was this small facility that was awarded with a special award - a multifunctional device. In addition, individual special prizes, i.e. eternal feathers received: Patrick Bojakowski and Alicja Żuchowska. The gala was celebrated by a beautiful concert of patriotic songs performed by the Pearls of Ryszard Góra - Oli Kostęska and Dominika Bugajska. On 4 June the selected winners of the competition took part in a trip to Warsaw, where they visited among others. Sejm, Łazienki, Old Town and Powęzkowski Cemetery. Here I would like to thank those institutions and people who supported me in the organisation of the competition - the strategic partner of the Polish Post Office, the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the Cooperative Bank in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, the Institute of National Remembrance Delegature in Kielce, teachers of the Catholic High School. Fr. Marcin Popiela, Karol Wójcik, Mai Bińczak and the Ostrowieckie Gazet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for your invaluable support and helping my wife Maria. Thank you to all the teachers who helped write the paper. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u421	Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u422	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a statement on delays or omissions, this word can be used for the implementation of this year's departmental development programme of childcare institutions up to 3 years old. As part of this programme, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy transfers funds to support the stay of children, young children in crèches, children's clubs, non-public institutions through voivodships. This year, as in previous years, this task should be carried out from 1 January. After receiving a grant of PLN 150 per child per month, such a nursery or a children's club transfers this amount to parents. However, since the beginning of this year, although the results of the competitions for this task have already been announced in February, the institutions participating in the program The employees of the regional office unofficially provide information that so far the voivode has not received any funds from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for this purpose. This results in a legitimate impatience of the parents who checked the results of the competition. They do not understand why they do not receive funds, even though the call for this programme has been announced, carried out and implemented. In recent days I have heard Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki brag about this program several times in various public places. Therefore, I would like to address the question which the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy should probably be addressing, what are the reasons for not providing funds for the programme, as the first part of the programme is due to end in June. I found out what it was like in previous years, also under the rule of the Civic Platform. It is well known that it has never been since January, but always somewhere in February, March this money has already appeared and been paid. It's almost half a year, it's vacation time. I'm sure that money will come in, but I'd like to ask you if the state is so tragic that the government is not able to transfer funds to the programs it announced, or if there's such a mess in the ministry, a lack of the minister's ability to supervise employees, so that the money will flow in time. It should also be noted that even if these transfers for crèches and children's clubs are delayed, I do not know, in June, for the entire six-month period, this will cause very big complications for the hosts. The Ministry requires a separate sub-account for obtaining this grant, detailed settlement, and yet these tasks have been carried out since the beginning of the year, so it will require complex re-accounting of many records. I am no longer talking about the fact that reaccounting is often of interest to the tax authorities and that the tax authorities running these offices will have to explain themselves. It also so happens that in this matter I am speaking today, when a vote of distrust has been considered for the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Minister was heavily defended by everyone. The speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki seems to have exceeded all limits of demagogy and aggression towards those who think differently than him. On the other hand, it turns out that when it is a simple matter, like transferring funds from the Ministry to announced and evaluated programs to voivodships, it is not possible to implement it for six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u423	Thank you very much, sir. And I will ask Mr John Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 20 years ago, on 5 and 7 June 1998, in my home town, Starogard Gdański, the central celebrations related to the anniversary of the 800th anniversary of our city took place and the 650th anniversary of the granting of city rights to Starogard. Many excellent guests came to our town for this reason, sleep. Priest Primate Joseph Glemp, many bishops, cardinals. The celebrations were attended by countless numbers of old men, and more than that. Even representatives of the Bavarian Joannite Order have arrived, who have founded a plaque commemorating their presence in our city, as well as mayors of friendly partner cities - from Diepholz and Hillerod. The special event of these days was putting our city under the care of St. Wojciech, one of the main patrons of Poland, and since 6 June 1998 - also the Starogard of Gdansk. Before this event, at the beginning of 1998, a group of councillors of the then city council took the initiative of putting the city and its inhabitants under the care of St. Wojciech. On 5 March 1998, the City Council unanimously adopted a resolution on this matter with the following contents: In the year of the 800th anniversary of the city of Starogard Gdansk, the capital of Kociewi, it will commemorate the role played in our city's history by the Christian faith and culture represented throughout history by the Catholic Church and other Christian and esteemed religious churches, especially the Order of St. Jana, commemorates the long-term relationship between Starogard and the Polish Crown, which was immortalized in the customary honorary title: the Royal City of Starogard, the capital of Kociewi, given to the city by its first Polish mayor after years of partitions, we express our will to establish St. Wojciech, patron of the Kingdom of Poland, martyr associated with the history of Poland, especially Pomerania, patron of the city of Starogard Gdański with honorary title: Patron of the Royal City of Starogard, the capital of Kociewi. I prefer the councillors to be approved by decree by the bishop of the diocese of Pelplińska, the late Bishop of the diocese. Fr. Professor Jan Bernard Szlaga. He was also the author of a beautiful supplicative prayer recommending Starogard St. Wojciech: Saint Wojciech, Patron of Poland, Patrons of the Royal City of Starogard. Ask for us in the Throne of God, ♪ to let our faith grow ♪ according to the maturity of Christ's age. A special event took place in the rich program of celebrating this fine anniversary. June 6 was the central day of the 800th anniversary anniversary of Starogard. The main celebrations were held in the square in front of the church of St. Wojciech with the participation of many members of the Polish Episcopate. The Holy Mass was concelebrated by Fr. Card. Józef Glemp in the presence of the apostolic nuncio Fr. Józef Kowalczyk, as well as many bishops and representatives of the local clergy. Several thousand faithful participated in it. During the anniversary celebrations at the church the monument of St. Wojciech, who was declared patron of our city. The decree about the patronage was issued by the late Bishop of Pope John Bernard Szlaga. He said: In response to the initiative and the adoption of the City Council of Starogard Gdansk on 5 March 1998 which called for the announcement of St. Wojciech patron of Starogard Gdański, I state that the unforgettable habit of recalling his patronage is now solemnly confirmed by this decree. May in the year 800th anniversary of the Starogard of Gdańsk St. Wojciech, the patron of this royal city, will be an inspiration in shaping a community conscious of its goals, responsible and leading in the creation of the Christian culture of the third millennium. I remind you of this event, also today, to be guided by the individual and social teachings and Christian values taught by our ancestors by the patron saint of our city. Wojciech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On 6 June 2018, in the jubilee year of the 100th anniversary of regaining Poland's independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u425	Thank you very much. And I ask Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u426	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday 4 June, I attended the celebration of giving the name of the primary school in Humicin. It is a school located in the Ciechanov district of Mazowsze. At present, 71 students attend the school. The patronage of the school was Ignacy Mościcki, a prominent Pole, a professor of chemistry, the president of the Second Republic, born nearby, in Mierzanów, a village belonging to the district of the school. The whole community was in favour of this choice. In the presentation of the patron during the ceremony, the headmaster of the school, Ms Iwona Ożarowska emphasized that the scientific achievements of our great compatriot, the values he represented, deserved to be remembered and respected. The name of Ignacy Mościcki school is part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. The homeland was for Ignacy Mościcki the highest good and value he has served throughout his life. For her, he used his extraordinary talents, worked honestly, was able to rise above divisions and personal ambitions. By drawing from the wisdom of his ancestors, he paved the way for modernity. Decently he embodied the majesty of the Republic of Poland. Today, they emphasized versatility as a special feature. Next year, the first eighth graders will finish the school. The principal and the faculty wanted them to be certified by a school with a patron, so that the values that he symbolizes would guide them over the years of their studies. The school tried to name her, although she's still at risk of liquidation. The reason is the high costs of running this facility. These schools are not only educational, but they are a place that integrates the local community, the centre of cultural life, the meeting place, the common value. The student at such school is not anonymous, he is actively involved in the implementation of various educational activities undertaken by the school. Together with the local government, we must support such educational institutions. The ceremony, to which I was invited, had a very rich setting, began with a common prayer in the parish church in Łysakow, where Ignacy Mościcki was baptized, the school received a banner founded by the sacrificial advice of parents, a memorial plaque founded by the Association of Ciechanowska Land Lovers was unveiled. It was attended by the local community, parents and graduates were very involved in helping the school during preparation and during the event. There's a reason the 4th of June was chosen for the name day. It is the date of the oath of Ignacy Mościcki as President of the Republic in 1926 and the first free elections in 1989. Thank you very much to the director, the governor of Grudusk commune, Mr Jack Oglęcki and the entire educational community for the invitation. It is symbolic for me that we remember and commemorate President Ignacy Mościcki in his homepages in the year in which we celebrate the 100th anniversary of independence of Poland. It certainly deserves a special place in our national memory, and schools such as the one in Humicin - for further functioning and working for the local community. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u427	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice, will make another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, a group of students from Mosina's schools and their parents visited the Sejm. Mosina is a municipality in Poznań County, near Poznań. This visit coincides with an important anniversary, also an interesting anniversary, one can say, even from the point of view of the whole country, the whole of Poland. On this occasion I wanted to make a message - just on the occasion of the 170th anniversary of the Republic of Mosińska. On 3 May 2018, 170 years have passed since the proclamation of the Republic of Mosińska. It is a unique and boastful, although little known, card of Polish history. The Republic of Mosińska was declared in Mosina as an independent Polish republic by Jakub Krauthhofer-Krotowski during the Greater Poland Spring of the Peoples. Today's municipalities include Mosiny, Kórnik and Stęszew. On the document issued at that time there was a seal with the image of the Jagiellonian eagle and the inscription "Poland rising." The free Polish state in Mosina survived briefly. He ended his existence after a few days, after the defeated armed clashes at Rogalin and Nadawe. We are grateful to remember the activists and soldiers of the Republic of Mosińska: the lawyer and insurgent commander of Jakub Krauthhofer-Krotowski, as well as members of the Moscow National Committee - the teacher Wojciech Rost, tailor Antoni Adamski, beermaker Stanisław Stefanowicz, potters Jan Kordylewski and Antoni Ruszkiewicz. The Mossinian insurgents have served Poland well. Although the Republic of Mosińska survived briefly, it remains one of the symbols of the constant aspirations of the Polish people for sovereignty and independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u429	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On May 27th, I attended the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Benedictine Sisters' Assembly of Missionaries. I was honored to be able to celebrate this beautiful anniversary with them. Just as the efforts of the sisters help the needy in many places of the world, so the jubilee was and is celebrated from Ecuador to Ukraine, from Chicago to Łomża. At this point I would like to point out that Łomża is particularly connected with the family of Benedictine Orders. After all, the first church was to be built here by St. Brunon of Kwerfurt, Benedictine monk. 100 years of activities of the Benedictine Sisters of Missionaries came to an extremely difficult time in the history of Poland and Europe. The founder of the convention was born in Podol in 1859. She wanted to sacrifice her life to God, but she could not join the Order because there was a Tsar's decree that the Orders could only accept candidates after the death of one of the sisters. With God's help Russia lost World War I and Poland regained independence. Sister Jadwiga might have put on a habit. After obtaining the consent of Bishop. Ignacy Dubowski opened a novitiate. According to Sister Jadwiga, it was to be a branch of the Benedictine Sisters' Assembly from Mercy Bl. Columba Gabriela's mother. The bishop recognized the house established in 1917 in the White Church as the beginning of a new assembly. This misunderstanding caused many of Jadwiga's mother's concerns, but it did not affect the activities of orphaned sisters after World War I. As a result of the Polish-Bolshevik War and World War II, orphans and people in need of help arrived. They could all hope to find her with the missionary sisters. The sisters also engaged in conspiracy activities. Sister Klara Staszczak and Sister Jadwiga Domdalska were AK liaisons. After World War II, new challenges faced the assembly. The change of borders forced the transfer of activities to the territory of the present Poland. The Communist authorities in the 1960s took away the sisters led by them with such devotion to the homes of the child. Thanks to God's providence, the country finally had freedom, and the assembly was able to develop freely. For several years, sisters in Łomża have become an integral part of our community. They also made a positive impression on the crowds of Łomża residents, visiting the Catholic Center, where they carry out apostolic activities. Me personally, whenever I see sisters on the so-called. The city, they strike peace and good on their faces. Then I realize the deep meaning of the words that St. Benedict finishes the 57th chapter of the Law: that God may be glorified in everything. It is one simple sentence that we can refer to every aspect of life. I said we can, because secular people too should follow this recommendation by raising children, working, driving a car while walking, saying: in all their activities. And that is, that these words should be deep in our hearts and that we should all of us they used them in their daily lives, and I wish them both to our sisters and to all of us. I sincerely thank the sisters for the service and witness you give us, and I wish the whole assembly many vocations, as well as fruitful apostolic and missionary activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u431	Thank you. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u432	Dear Marshal! Fellow Members! Listeners! I return in today's conversation to what I reflected with you yesterday, namely I tried to reinterpret as a secular person of the burning and deep spiritual sermon of Bishop. Grzegorz Rysia delivered on 3 June this year. in the Temple of Divine Providence during the Holy Thanksgiving Mass for the gift of Poland's regaining independence a hundred years ago. The bishop referred in his mind to two aspects of experiencing independence, also understood as experienced freedom in an individual perspective, as we talked about yesterday, and the experience of the Community as a nation, members of the same community, faith, culture, tradition, the same values, signs in a symbolic and factual sphere. The preacher emphasized that - I quote - the measure of celebrating liberation is not only his own experience of freedom, but also his ability to share this gift with others, as he stressed. He added that to open to others the experience of freedom, it was not so obvious and simple. It turns out that this is also difficult for us: just as we fear our own freedom, we are also afraid of the freedom of others. Can they be trusted if they can do anything? Or can you trust them so they can do anything? He asked the Archbishop. So if I take a moment to accept this question, I'm going to put it in a feedback loop in this arrangement: How do others feel about my freedom? And how am I supposed to experience, experience, consume freedom by others? Isn't this the state of unauthorized, albeit most obvious relativeity? After all, my sense of freedom allows me to do more than others, after all, it is her, my freedom, who empowers me to hide it from everyone else. Does that happen? And it seems that both yours and my freedom to ourselves have the same quality: indisputability. How, then, can we find common spaces of freedom in this perspective? A benevolent but demanding preacher said: Freedom can be celebrated with people who want it as much for others as for themselves. Thus comes the word that created our freedom, the word "solidarity" - he emphasized. And he added: Solidarity is only possible with people of conscience. Here we return to yesterday's reflection on personal experience and the experience of freedom. The point is not to take away from others the right to experience it at the same time as caring for its quality. It seems that it is also worth recalling here what this freedom is. Is it frimmed, blasphemed, manipulated, merely mirrored by true freedom, or noble, pure and open? We enter in this way in connection with freedom with responsibility. It seems that the more freedom, the more responsibility, both for myself and for the world that surrounds me. This Sunday celebration of thanksgiving for regained independence is also a good time to thank Bishop. To lynx for the word, to sink in search of the answer about its meaning, quality and meaning for each of us separately and for the community of the nation. Bishop. Grzegorz, thank you for the signposts. Let me add that history is happening here and now, our life is its fulfillment. The history of our community is also the contribution of my personal biography. So let us consider what marks we leave behind, how we experience ours, [[♪ The bell ♪]] our freedom and how we experience it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u433	Thank you. A final statement will be made today by Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Independence is like a precious pearl to be guarded. Independence is the freedom to make sovereign decisions. Its fruitage is the ability to choose what is good for all of us and, above all, fair. We are all responsible for our future: parliamentarians, government and citizens. We are also responsible for our past to preserve the true history of our fathers, so that no one can take away our victories, the heroics of our ancestors, the suffering of the nation and the Polish estate. This is why it is so important that the whole nation is mobilized in actions that effectively strengthen our spirit and our attachment to the truth about Poland and the world. Our land is fertile. It has high, noble cereals to enrich Polish tables. Great spirit and deed grew on it. Great people aren't born on the verge of death. They were shaped by a culture rich in values that cannot pass away. They were born and established by the atmosphere of the noble houses. These houses, contrary to communist messages, are the birthplaces of Polish culture and elevated patriotism. In the noble houses, Dąbrowski's Mazurek resounded constantly because our anthem won the clocks. On the walls there were images with images of national heroes created on Polish saints, and when they could not hang, because it was forbidden by censorship, hunting trophies, dried flowers and herbs from Polish fields were hung. They symbolized the wealth of Polish forests and fields, the beauty of our nature and Polish soul. You can already see that the Polish house is unique and plays a huge role in the family. He went through various stages of development, but who among us doesn't know what the noble house, the manor house, looked like? From various cultural products we know that he was noble, ancient, God-fearing, hospitable, safe, cheerful, with characteristic surroundings: trees in the yard, guesthouse and entrance gate hospitably opened. This house is as real as it is dreamy, unique. He himself gained great value, to which he had already been appealed at every moment of his life, especially in moments of misfortune, separation. He slowly became a symbol of the whole country. Our family law was completely different from that in Europe. That's where the eldest son inherited his estate. The rest of the siblings were equipped for life and the family home was leaving. With us, the property belonged to the whole family and all the children received their share. Although this was the cause of the property's fragmentation, family ties remained closer, without any sense of harm. Poles chose a sense of family and justice. The family home did not lose its warmth, atmosphere of proximity, communality. I think that's why there were values born in this house that our nation stood out. They became a Polish cultural centre because they included central values, the most important ones. They always included: family land, national colors - white and red - emblem, mother tongue, faith, respect for work, love of freedom, personal dignity, ability to make unlimited sacrifices and sacrifices in the name of community, honor and obedience, family and family, family home, hospitality, generosity, respect for women, love of children, attachment to their own history and belief in its uniqueness, as well as hope contrary to hope, lack of cruelty, forgiving ability, tolerance, citizenship, democracy and criticism of power. The patterns and values of the noble house moved to peasant huts and bourgeois families. Hence the durability of Polish culture. If someone forgets about it today, it surprises them: How do you, a Pole, not know it? Older people, hearing about someone's unworthy conduct, ask: How can he, being a Pole, do this? It is time to revive our national heroes, remind them of their greatness, their fortitude, and their sacrificial deeds. On us on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, on all Poles it is the duty to teach how to love the country with its difficult freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-sejm-63-2.u435	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 7 June 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2018 to Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 16]]
