ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u1	Resume session. High Izbo! Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Welcome to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Piotr Gliński. [[Applause]] [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] [[The Prime Minister solves problems with Israel.]] I welcome the members of the diplomatic corps who have come to hear the information of the Foreign Minister. [[Applause]] I welcome the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the members of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Daniel Milewski, Łukasz Schreiber and Jarosław Szlachetka as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Jarosław Nobletka. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Daniel Milewski. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 10:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u3	Thank you, Member. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2018. Please take the floor of the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz, to present the information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u4	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Your Excellency! Dear members of the Diplomat Corps! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have the honour to present for the first time as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the new, reconstructed office of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to the Sejm, gathered guests and citizens of the Republic of Poland information on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in the year two thousand and eighteen. [[Voice from the room: 2,000 and 18th.]] It is an honor for me to present the High House's foreign policy programme for the year in which Poland has its 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Thank you for the presence of the President, who represents the majesty of the Republic of Poland in the field of foreign policy. [[Applause]] In the field of foreign policy, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, he shall cooperate with the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Close cooperation between the President and the Government, mutual support in the service of the Republic strengthens Poland's position and is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of Polish foreign policy. High Seym! According to Art. 4 of the Constitution, the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. Foreign policy is therefore shaped according to citizens' wishes. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, like any other member of the Council of Ministers, shall be accountable to the Sejm. It is the Sejm who controls the ministers, making each of them responsible for the affairs of the Republic, which he entrusts to him, on behalf of the sovereign, or nation, by giving the Council of Ministers a vote of confidence. At the same time, the Sejm itself, as a gathering of representatives of the nation, makes sovereign decisions, some of which concern foreign policy, creating the conditions resulting from these decisions for further activities of diplomacy. In direct elections, citizens also elect the President of the Republic of Poland, who co-creates foreign policy. Therefore, the content of the Constitution is based on the main principle of Polish foreign policy - the principle of subjectivity reflected in the slogan: nothing about us without us. [[Applause]] It is abstinence to accept as binding any decision taken on our subject without our participation. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The obvious reason of the state of Poland is to guarantee national independence and sovereign statehood. [[Applause]] It is also to ensure the civilizational development of Poland in the subjective relations within the international community. This leads me to put four also with regard to the challenges, goals and nature of Polish foreign policy. The first thesis: Poland's international position is due to its strong position in Europe. The source of the attractiveness of Poland and its ability to influence its decision-making processes effectively, whether as an ally within NATO or as a partner in the structures of the European Union, is its ability to articulate the interests of the countries of our region and act as their attorney. This can be done in full respect of the political subjectivity of our neighbourhood partners. In Poland as the largest country in the region lies the main burden of promoting and defending the Polish interests of our regional partners. The second point: The European Union is in crisis in both institutional, axiological and external security. Although the 2008 financial crisis has ended economically, its effects The political and social role of the Union in the future of the European project continues to have an impact on the nature of relations between Member States. The crisis of democratic procedures in the Member States and the transfer of real decision-making processes to informal bodies lead to a weakening of the Union's position, the rise of euroscepticism, the renationalisation of European policies. The third thesis: the military presence of the United States in Europe and their strong position in NATO are of fundamental importance for the military security of Poland and the whole region. It is in the interest of Poland and Central and Eastern Europe that the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance are permanently involved in this part of the world. Poland is as interested as possible in maintaining strong transatlantic ties. [[We need to talk to the Secretary of State.]] Their continuous strengthening and development are the fundamental task of the Polish security policy. The fourth thesis: Russia's policy is a threat to building the subjectivity of Poland in international relations. Russia is pursuing a revision of the political order in Europe, which developed after 1989 and brought Poland back to independence. The instruments for achieving this goal are the destabilization of many regions in the closer and further vicinity of Poland, action to strengthen political divisions within and between countries, breaking down transatlantic unity and deepening divisions within the European Union. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After drawing up the general conditions of Polish foreign policy, I would like to move on to specific issues. First of all, I will discuss what we are doing to strengthen our security in an unstable international environment and our relations with our main ally: the United States. I will then present our vision of European policy and the state of play with our main European partners. I will devote another part of my speech to regional cooperation. I will then discuss the goals of Polish diplomacy in cooperation with Polonia and development cooperation, as well as recent changes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. High Izbo! National security of the Republic of Poland is the highest priority of Polish foreign policy. The old slogan of every reasonable diplomacy: First of all, security is also our signpost. National security of the Republic of Poland, in addition to the obvious basis in the defence system of the Polish state, is founded on the strength and coherence of the North Atlantic Alliance. The government, together with the President, has been working effectively since autumn 2015 to strengthen NATO's military presence in the region. In cooperation with Romania, we have succeeded in building solidarity between the states, which was reflected in the creation of the Bucharest Nine. The postulates put forward by this group of countries in our region for the military reinforcement of the eastern NATO flank were adopted at the Warsaw Summit in 2016 and implemented last year. Poland hosts allied forces from the United States, the United Kingdom, Romania and Croatia in its territory. Allow me to express my gratitude to our allies for the solidarity shown to Poland in this way. [[Applause]] Poland as one of several countries of the Alliance has spent 2% on defence for several years GDP. True, strong economic growth and a change in the way of counting led to a decrease of 0.01% in this share last year. However, this does not mean moving away from the principle that the size of defence expenditure depends on the credibility of NATO's deterrent and defence policy. The Polish Army participates in NATO-Wskie missions in Latvia and Romania. According to the allied schedule, the Polish aviation contingent serves in the Baltic States, guarding the sky over Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Cooperation is ongoing with Germany and Denmark within the Multinational North-East Corps with headquarters in Szczecin and cooperation with Lithuania and Ukraine within the Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian Brigade activated in 2016. We have become a provider of common security, not just to the recipient. Poland will seek to increase NATO's military presence and infrastructure in the region, recognising that only credible, really strong deterrents can provide us with peace and security. The aim of Polish diplomacy is to increase the efficiency of the Alliance's operation, especially in the field of collective defence. We will strive to provide support forces, strengthen ally mobility, realistic planning and speed up decision-making processes. Our proposals in this area are now subject to alliance agreements. Poland is in favour of the North Atlantic Alliance maintaining open door policy. We want to develop cooperation with NATO partner countries, especially with its immediate environment: Finland, Sweden, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, with which we have a far-reaching convergence of views on the nature of threats to international security. High Izbo! The details of military cooperation both within the North Atlantic Alliance and within the European Union are the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence. In the political dimension of Polish military activity, I would just like to stress that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland guard the security of Poland and build the credibility of our country as a solid ally in missions outside NATO and European Union Member States. In 2017, the Polish Army took part in 13 foreign missions: seven NATO-Warsaws in Afghanistan, Kosovo, Latvia, Romania and the Baltic States, training and training in Ukraine and the command mission of a permanent staff team, three EU-led in Georgia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central African Republic, two coalitions in Kuwait and Iraq, and one bilateral training team in Ukraine. Since the beginning of this year the mandate of the Polish quota in Romania also covers Bulgaria. In February of this year, the Polish Army's contingent joined the EU Mission in the Mediterranean since 2015. In addition, Polish officers and officers participate in EU missions in Ukraine, Moldova and maritime operations off the Somali coast. I would like to thank the soldiers of the Polish Army, Polish officers and civil servants for their sacrificial service to their country outside the country. [[Applause]] This commitment builds the ally credibility of Poland in the bosom of NATO and the European Union. Thank you again. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our goal is to further deepen our security ties with the United States. We will develop both bilateral cooperation and cooperation in multilateral fora, primarily in NATO. We are opposed to any step that provokes transatlantic divisions. We will strive for a more permanent anchoring of elements of the U.S. armed forces in the territory of Poland. This political line on the whole Eastern NATO flank is shared by our allies from the Bucharest Nine. The American base in Redzików is an important element in defending NATO territory against a potential attack. We note technical delays in its construction, which the American side signalled as early as mid-January this year. We look forward to further cooperation and detailed information on this issue. The United States participates in the modernization of the Polish Armed Forces. Our partnership increasingly embraces the economic dimension as well as a promising area of innovation and the development of high technologies. We hope that the Polish-American Economic Summit planned for April will give a greater impetus to our cooperation in this field. Cooperation on the release of the Central European natural gas market depends on the dependence on Russian supplies is of strategic importance. 2018 will be the first year of implementation of the 5-year contract for the supply of American gas. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our membership of the Security Council The UN is a greater influence and greater responsibility for global problems. We will focus on strengthening the principles of international law, preventing conflicts and tackling new threats to peace and security. Poland is in the position of fully respecting the fundamental principles of international law, the integrity of borders, respect for sovereignty, respect for human rights and the renunciation of military force. On the resolution of the conflict in Syria, we support the Geneva Declaration and the negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. We will support conflict resolution in the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan. As Chairman of the Sanctions Committees, we pay particular attention to the situation in Sudan and South Sudan. As a member of the Security Council, we demand the cessation of Russia's destabilising actions towards Ukraine and we stress the need for a peaceful settlement of the Donbas conflict. We attach great importance to humanitarian issues, including the protection of the rights of religious communities. In inaugurating Poland's membership of the Security Council in January this year, President Andrzej Duda took an active part in the debate on the non-plorification of weapons of mass destruction. I participated in the discussions on security in Afghanistan and Central Asia and on the role of the United Nations Charter in ensuring peace and security. In May, our country will take the rotating Presidency of the Council, during which the President will hold a debate on strengthening confidence in international law in the modern world. Poland will chair the preparatory committee of the review conference of the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Agreement, to be held in 2020, on the 50th anniversary of the entry into force of the Agreement. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish membership in the European Union strengthens the position of the Republic of Poland on the international stage... [[Oh...]] ...brings many economic, political and social benefits to our country. [[It's not a job, though.]] Our companies are growing faster thanks to the common market. [[Bravo.]] [[Oh...]] Polish citizens can travel freely, work, learn abroad. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Finally.]] [[We're happy. We're not under lockdown.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that support for the European Union is still high. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] According to the CBOS survey of January this year 87% Poles support... [[Voice from the hall: Zabory.]] ...membership of Poland in the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Bravo for the Poles!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]] This is the largest indicator in Europe. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[You've done a great job.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! One of the greatest tasks of the Polish government is to ensure equal and subjective participation of our country in shaping the process of European integration. [[Applause]] The main question concerns the very nature of European integration... [[Not really, not really.]] ...a model of the Union that we would like to build in the future. Detailed issues related to the concept of the Union of multi-speed concern - those problems I am talking about, which are being discussed about the shape and vision of the European Union at present - issues such as the concept of the Union of multi-speed, four European freedoms, the migration crisis, permanent structural cooperation in the military dimension, as well as the Structural Funds in the context of the debate on the future budgetary perspective for 20212027. I want to be clear: Poland's goal is strong The European Union. [[Applause]] This is the goal... the applause confirms, [[Joy in the Chamber]] that this is the purpose for which, I believe, a vast majority of the Members of the High House would sign. This is also the purpose of the government policy of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] Let us, however, consider what a strong and efficient European Union means today, and why the adoption of a concrete model of the European integration process will make it strong and effective. [[Euro!]] The fundamental issue for the effectiveness of the European Union is the ability to achieve a genuine democratic mandate to act. [[Applause]] A strong Union is a Union with the support of its states and nations. An efficient Union is one that has a democratic mandate to use the resources generated by the citizens of the Member States to achieve democratically defined objectives. The Union's first task is therefore to gain the political support of its citizens for its actions. Such agreement in the form of a real mandate can only be obtained at the level of national Parliaments. Further deepening of European integration is only possible to the extent accepted by the participating countries and nations. [[Applause]] I would also like to say that the European Commission is not a supergovernment, and the European Parliament is not a superparliament empowered to instruct national governments and parliaments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's remind here that art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: the Union shall act only within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the Member States and any competence not conferred on the Union by the Treaties shall belong to the Member States. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Sacred words.]] [[And Member States are states of law.]] High Izbo! The deficit of democracy in the European Union is not a rhetorical figure, but a reality with deep political consequences. The Republic of Poland takes the view that the European Union can only be strong by real support to its citizens, who are capable of giving democratic power to their elected governments to rule. Citizens want their voice to matter. The growing wave of opposition to integration on the European continent is not the cause of the Union's democratic weakness, but is the result of it. [[Applause]] Nothing harms the idea of European integration so much as the actual inequality of its Member States towards law, the application of double standards and the departure of the European Commission from the role of objective guardian of the Treaties [[Applause]] to the functions of instruments in the hands of certain countries. Poland is an old democracy with one of the longest parliamentary traditions in Europe. [[She needs to be respected.]] This year we celebrate the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. One of the creators of the Constitution on 3 May, Hugo Kołłątaj, wrote: "It is wrong to accuse the nations that they are being raised into government, because they are born into fornication. After more than two centuries, this quote has not lost its relevance and shows the true cause of opposition to European integration in many countries. We believe in the common sense of voters and reject the right of anyone to teach their fellow citizens what to believe. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Except for Sundays off.]] High Izbo! We are determined opponents of the European Union of two speeds. A clear result of the creation of a core of Europe or a first-speed Europe would be the transfer of any real decision-making process from the Treaty institutions of the European Union, in which all Member States are represented, to the newly created institutions of the euro area and informal bodies. This would lead to the marginalisation of Central Europe and other regions: Scandinavia, the southern countries of the euro area, which are struggling with the effects of the financial crisis. Setting up a directorate of selected powers would be contrary to fundamental European principles. An efficient, functional democracy requires the rejection of protectionism. Its expression is the draft directive on posted workers. We cannot accept the rules of the game within which our competitive advantages should be crossed by the rules imposed by stronger partners... [[Voice from the gym: We lost.]] ...and their rules, their competitive advantages should be maintained. We believe in an integrated European single market and four freedoms - I stress - all four freedoms: the movement of goods, capital, services and people, and not just some of them. [[Applause]] We are in favour of a social market economy based on free competition and economic freedoms. Protectionism restricts competitiveness and therefore economic growth, resulting in a decline in the importance of force and therefore the importance of the European Union in the world. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Structural Funds are part of a mechanism that makes the common European market beneficial to all its players. They compensate weaker partners paid by a more economically developed country in exchange for the abolition of protectionist duties and quotas and for opening less competitive economies to free competition from stronger ones. Hence, funds are not a charitable donation to the poorer. Most of these funds return to net payers. The Polish and other countries of our region remain open to all European partners. We therefore expect the other party to fulfil its commitments until we have reached the level of development of the countries of the old Union. Then, naturally, we will become net contributors, also benefiting from it. [[Applause]] We are in favour of maintaining a high level of funding for the Union's cohesion policy in the future budgetary perspective for the period 2021 to 2027. Poland is a leader in the efficient and transparent use of EU funds. [[Voice from the room: Was.]] We are therefore aware that the measures will decrease. [[Because of you.]] The United Kingdom, which was a net payer, is from the Union. Some Polish regions have achieved such a level of income that they will lose the right to funds from structural policy. We are also aware that some countries expect funding from the budget of new areas such as the fight against illegal migration, innovation and cooperation in security and defence. At the same time, we are in favour of an ambitious budget, filling the gaps by giving up discounts and increasing contributions. [[Applause]] We declare the willingness to increase the contribution paid by Poland accordingly. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We do not agree with the idea of linking access to EU funds with the assessment of compliance with the rule of law. [[Applause]] The rule of law is a valuable value to us, a value we value. [[Really?]] However, we are afraid that unclear criteria may result in arbitrary restrictions on the rights of Member States. [[Applause]] The European Union should be based on universal rules, the same for all, for example. the experience of the excessive deficit procedure shows that such tools are not in force for all members. We won't be able to agree to that. [[Applause]] We regretted the European Commission's decision to launch the procedure provided for in Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. We defend our law... [[The Constitution, too?]] [[Voice from the room: All the time.]] ...to reform the judicial dimension in line with the expectations of Poles expressed in recent elections. They are without prejudice to the principles of the democratic rule of law, and even strengthen these principles. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, of course.]] We have reached our position in the White Paper, which we have given to the EU institutions and the Member States. [[It's a good thing someone finally explained it to us.]] It provides arguments as to why judicial reform was necessary. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that we are open to dialogue, a substantive discussion with the European Commission and the Member States. There is a meeting of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on this issue in the coming days and a meeting of our experts with the President of the Commission and experts of the European Commission. [[Right after we got back from Washington.]] High Izbo! We want to be involved in solving the migration crisis. However, we are, as we stress, opposed to imposing a system of mandatory reception quotas for refugees. Experience so far shows that they are going to those countries that are able to provide them with better living conditions. We are also helping the Middle East societies to resolve the crisis at the place of its origin. Together with our partners from the Visegrad Group, we have allocated EUR 35 million to border protection in Libya. In February this year. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki paid a visit to Lebanon, initiating the construction of houses for Syrian refugees. [[Applause]] We respect our commitments to asylum procedures. Between 2015 and 2017, we accepted 3700 people from European Union countries, and we had a positive examination of the proposals for 21 000. persons. Isn't that a significant contribution of our country to solving the migration crisis? [[Applause]] [[There it is.]] High Izbo! Enhanced cooperation in defence and security - PESCO addresses three important issues: the development of the national arms industry, the structure of the national defence budget and the effectiveness and speed of cross-border transfer of allied troops. The European Defence Fund aims to fund research into new defence technologies and to support Member States in developing combat capabilities. This will have an obvious impact on the structures of the Union's national military budgets and their arms industries. We are in favour of equal opportunities for access to the defence industry fund of all Member States to ensure that innovation and jobs are increased in each Member State. We want to avoid the situation where the largest countries with a large defence industry benefit most from the Commission's proposals, while smaller countries will be at risk of reducing their potential. It is also necessary to develop those technologies and capabilities which are essential for the defence of the Union's own territory. We strongly support the principle of non-repairing the North Atlantic Alliance's activities and expenditure. Speaking of strengthening Europe's defence capabilities, we must not forget our British allies. We stress that the European Union needs Britain also after it leaves the organisation. [[Applause]] The relationship between the two parties should be as close as possible, but based on the balance of rights and obligations. We strive to ensure the protection of rights acquired by Polish citizens living in the Islands. While expressing satisfaction with the progress made so far on the first stage of the negotiations, we hope to find a favourable agreement on the target framework for EU-British cooperation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are in favour of further enlargement of the Union. We actively support the European aspirations of the Western Balkan countries and share our experiences with our neighbours, partners on the road to membership. This is served by the Sofia Conference and the Tiran Conference. We are also part of the Berlin process, an initiative to support the integration of the region into the Union. In 2019 we will be the organisers of the summit in this process. High Seym! In summing up this part of my speech, which concerns the European Union, I would stress that we want the European Union, which is the Union of citizens, which requires the recognition of the fundamental role of the Member States as hosts of the European integration process. The leaders of each government are the citizens represented in parliaments. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The competences of the European Union as described in the Treaties adopted by the Member States cannot be extended without their treaty consent. [[Applause]] The division of the Union into multi-speed structures would be a step towards its inevitable decay. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] All four fundamental freedoms of the single market must be respected. The Structural Funds are an effective instrument for building the cohesion of the European Union and reducing them would undermine this cohesion. Union policies, including migration and security policies, must not be imposed on any country against its will. [[Applause]] The process of European integration must not reduce the involvement of the United States in Europe. European solidarity is part of transatlantic solidarity and therefore solidarity throughout the West. Dear ladies and gentlemen, In a world where countries play the role of the main actors of international policy, the essence of diplomacy is bilateral relations. Germany is our main political and economic partner in the European Union, as well as an important ally in NATO. [[Oh...]] [[A voice from the room: Really?]] We welcomed the recognition of the special importance of the Polish-German partnership in the programme of the new government. This is also confirmed by the Monday visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Warsaw. [[Applause]] For our part, we declare our willingness to implement this partnership in concrete terms. Friendly relations with Germany are a prerequisite for the success of any positive projects reported within the European Union. In many areas of the EU agenda, such as defence cooperation, fiscal policy, the consequences of brexitu, we present similar positions. We also appreciate Germany's role in maintaining the sanctions imposed on Russia in connection with its aggression in Crimea and Donbas. We want to work on solving issues where our positions are different. We believe that the Nord Stream 2 project poses a threat to the energy security of the entire region as well as to the common EU energy market. We will also talk about the need to compensate Poles for the losses suffered during World War II. We will seek legal, political and financial opportunities to compensate for the damage we have suffered. High Izbo! France remains an important partner for us. We have special historical ties. We are grateful to remember the support of the French for the freedom and independence of Poland, for the great emigration, for the Paris culture, for the Solidarity. Poles highly value French culture. In November last year, Prime Minister Beata Szydło spoke to President Emmanuel Macron about the future shape of the European Union in Paris. We'll continue these talks. In view of the deep need to stabilise our European neighbourhood, we see in France a key partner in military cooperation, both bilaterally and within NATO and the European Union. Our economic relationships are strong. France is the fourth largest investor in Poland. We want to exploit the potential of the Weimar Triangle in solving common problems and strengthening the unity and cohesion of the European Union. The United Kingdom is one of our closest partners. We have a regular dialogue between Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers on security issues in Quadriga format. During the December consultations, we signed a cooperation treaty in these areas. Recently, the second edition of the Polish-British Belvedere Forum took place in London, which helps to deepen the dialogue between civil society of Poland and the United Kingdom. This year we celebrate the Polish-British year of entrepreneurship, science and innovation. In May there will be a business forum. We are working on creating a new mechanism for regular consultations on economic issues. Among the most important European partners of the Republic of Poland will also traditionally be Italy and Spain, with which we are planning an intergovernmental consultation. We want to use close cooperation with those countries that represent the different regions of Europe to find constructive solutions for the whole of the Union and to strengthen its coherence. The Utrecht Conference is an important forum for dialogue in relations with the Netherlands. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The development of regional cooperation is one of our overarching priorities. We have a network of common interests with many neighbours: security issues, infrastructure issues, a similar approach to the budget of the European Union and the representation of our region in the decision-making structures of the Union. [[On NATO issues, the euro is different.]] [[Yeah, because they don't pay contributions.]] In the Visegrad Group we feel an increasing willingness to cooperate in the pursuit of the community of interests. We are grateful for the solidarity shown by Hungary in the dispute with the European Commission. [[Applause]] As part of the Visegrad Group, we have developed a far-reaching convergence of positions with regard to the migration crisis and the process of European integration. We presented a common vision of the future of the Union at the Rome Summit on the 60th anniversary of the Treaty. [[Yeah, that's what we remember.]] The Tri-marine initiative covers 12 Member States of the European Union belonging to a region located between the Baltic Sea, the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea. At the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, the Warsaw Tri-Morch Summit in 2017 with the participation of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, gave this initiative a new dynamic. [[Applause]] The aim of the initiative is to translate into concrete infrastructure rules on the single market. The exchange of goods, services and mobility of workers remain far below the existing potential in our region. The barrier is the lack of road, rail and energy infrastructure in the north-south band. We look forward to strengthening and concreteising cooperation, among others. in the form of the creation of the Tri-marine Fund, from which infrastructure projects can be financed. We value the practice of trilateral Polish-Romanian-Turkish consultations in the field of foreign and security policy. Romania is an important ally on the eastern front of NATO and its economy is currently developing as quickly as possible throughout the European Union. Bucharest connects us with the convergence of the assessment of the international situation and the traditions of the interwar alliance. The country will hold the Presidency of the European Union next year. We also appreciate Turkey's sensitive role as an important member of the North Atlantic Alliance. Cooperation with our neighbours in the north is developing, especially in security policy, arms cooperation, the European agenda and sectoral cooperation. Opening up to Scandinavia: Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland would also be a natural direction for developing the infrastructure investments of the Tri-marine. We value dialogue in a format that connects Central Europe and Scandinavia. With the Baltic States: Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, we have similar perceptions of the nature of threats, convergence of interests with regard to the European Union, common energy and infrastructure interests. The meeting of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with the leaders of the Baltic states recently confirmed the solidarity of our countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, Eastern policy is one of the most important dimensions of the foreign policy of the Republic of Poland. Both the current dynamics of the situation in the east, the scale of challenges coming from this direction for the security of Poland and Europe, as well as our historical experiences, will determine this. It is in Poland's interest that the peoples of its eastern neighbourhood enjoy independence and security so that, in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, their right to sovereignly choose the path of development, political system and alliances are respected. Those of them who decide on their pro-European and pro-Western options can count on Poland's persistent help to achieve their goal. [[Applause]] We welcomed the results of last year's Eastern Partnership Summit in Brussels. We will continue to support our partners, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the European Union, NATO and on the basis of bilateral relations. High Seym! In the interest of Poland and Europe there are pragmatic relations with the Russian Federation. Polish diplomacy is working towards a joint and consistent NATO and European Union policy towards Russia. Our consistent position should take into account the Russian behaviour towards both the Union and NATO as well as the individual Member States, our strategic partners and Russia's compliance with international law. We consider it necessary to maintain a political dialogue with Russia. Its essence, however, cannot be to ignore its current aggressive policy towards the West. Russia has violated many solemnly adopted treaties in recent years. We believe that the basis for solving problems with the Russian Federation must be reality with regard to the area of military security, transport and energy matters. Searching for solutions only through legal arrangements is not enough. We will work together with our allies from NATO and the European Union towards Russia. We have repeatedly pointed out that there is no basis for continuing to hold the wreckage of the TU-154 aircraft and the black boxes. They are property of Poland... [[Then bring them in.]] ...and their return is not only a legal obligation, but also a moral obligation. [[Applause]] [[Maybe the next government will be more effective.]] We will also seek to recover the key archives that are held by the Russians for Polish history. [[And the Swedes?]] However, there are also examples of successful cooperation. Such an example is the development by Polish and Russian researchers of educational materials for teachers to learn history, the presentation of the achievements of this team took place recently in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We want these examples of successful cooperation to be more. High Izbo! Independent, democratic and stable Ukraine is, from a Polish point of view, an essential element of European order and security. [[That's why you voted for the IPN bill.]] The importance of bilateral relations is underlined by President Andrzej Duda's visit to Kharkov last year. We are convinced that the Polish-Ukrainian partnership is permanent and should remain so. The dramatic historical test, which has become the participation of Ukraine as a result of Russian armed aggression, causes a natural feeling of sympathy and solidarity with a nation fighting for freedom, all of it and independence in Poland. [[Applause]] Intensive training-military cooperation and cooperation between the arms industries have been established. We are developing rail and air transport links, and the Polish national carrier, LOT, is now opening a link with the sixth airport already in Ukraine. We have shown energy solidarity in the face of Gazprom's decision to cut off gas supplies to Ukraine, delivering this raw material through a node in Hermanowice. Relations between the societies of our countries are strengthened. Last year Polish consuls issued citizens of Ukraine 1.2 million visas. More than 35 thousand are educated at Polish universities. students from Ukraine. This year is the 100th anniversary of independence of both Poland and Ukraine. It is also the 75th anniversary of mass crimes committed on Poles in Volyn. These anniversaries carry a strong emotional load. We should write a common scenario to celebrate these historical events. [[Applause]] The ban on exhumation of the remains of Polish victims of war and conflict introduced by Ukraine is difficult for us to understand and - I stress this - makes it difficult for us to conduct dialogue. We hope that it will be repealed in the near future. [[Applause]] The existence of independent Belarus is in the vital interest of Poland. Last year we celebrated the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Our relationship is now focused on solving practical problems. We are counting on the activation of cooperation in the field of infrastructure, including improving the capacity of border crossing points and the full implementation of the Small Border Traffic Agreement. From 1 January this year. Tourist visa-free movement took over the regions of the Augustów Canal, Grodno and Brest. In January this year, a Polish-Belarusian meeting was held at government level to discuss the development of port infrastructure on a waterway leading from the Baltic Sea through Poland, Belarus and Ukraine towards the Black Sea. We support the European and Atlantic aspirations of Georgia, which has been subject to visa-free travel with the European Union. The Republic of Poland will continue to support Georgia in the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union and in the further development of cooperation with NATO. [[Applause]] We support the reform process in Moldova and its pro-European orientation. We will actively seek to maintain the European Union's commitment to political dialogue to reintegrate Transnistria with Moldova. We will also work on further development of dialogue with Armenia and Azerbaijan. The countries of the South Caucasus are located on the strategic transport route of energy raw materials. We have noted with satisfaction the launch of the Baku - Tbilisi - Kars railway link last year, which opens up opportunities for increased economic contacts with the European Union. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The expansion of Polish companies is an important source of development of our economy. We consistently support Polish business abroad. Last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs benefited from almost 6.5 thousand. Polish companies. Our main partner on the Asian continent is the People's Republic of China. Last year, our turnover reached nearly $30 billion. Poland's position in the transport of goods between China and Europe is growing. Today 90% of rail transport between China and the European Union is already passing through the terminal in Małaszewicze. Last year Poland visited 140 thousand. Chinese tourists. We hope that this will result in an increase in mutual investment. This year another edition of the Polish-China Forum of Regions will be held in Chengdu. However, the challenge in cooperation with China will be to reduce the deep trade deficit. We consider it particularly important to strengthen cooperation with the countries with which we have established strategic partnerships: Japan and the Republic of Korea. Investment from these countries supports the objectives of a strategy for responsible development, reindustrialisation and development of electromobility. We are developing relations with India and ASEAN countries. The importance of this region in Polish foreign policy was highlighted by President Andrzej Duda's visit to Vietnam last November. The opening of a direct link with Singapore planned by LOT in mid-May will contribute to close cooperation with partners from the region. Poland as the only Central European founder participates in the work of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. We are looking forward to stepping up cooperation with Australia and New Zealand, which will serve the first ever visit of the President in these countries. We are developing relations with Israel, we look forward to the visit of the President of Israel in Poland, who, together with President Andrzej Duda, will participate in the March of the Living. We build our relations on the foundation of centuries-old relations between Poles and Jews under one Polish roof. We focus on economic and technological cooperation. We support our entrepreneurs in Africa and the Middle East. We will develop political and economic cooperation with Latin American and Caribbean countries. The basis for optimism is the stable economic, social situation in the leading countries of the region and the progressive liberalisation of trade with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with the president, the Ministry of Investment and Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and other central offices, we improve the instruments of economic diplomacy. We organize trainings for Polish entrepreneurs in the field of participation in tenders and projects of international organizations. We support technological cooperation between Polish companies and research and science institutions with their counterparts abroad. We strive to attract to Poland intellectual capital which is a lever for innovation. We use for this purpose, among others. Poland Prize programme. This year Poland will host for the third time the world's largest climate conference COP24. We undertake this task in the spirit of shared responsibility for finding solutions to the climate problems of the globe. $20,000. delegates from all over the world will come to Katowice, which will be an opportunity to show Silesia and Poland as an open and modern country, which cultivates historical and natural heritage. It will also be an opportunity to promote Polish solutions, innovative technologies for energy consumption and emissions. High Seym! Polonia is an extremely important element of the national community. We remember it, especially in the year in which it is the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Outside Poland there are about 20 million of our compatriots or people with Polish roots. Some of them are Poles who remained in the East after moving the borders of the country, some are immigrants who form contemporary Polonia in Western countries. Issues of the rights of the Polish minority in Lithuania are a constant concern from the government. We're making significant progress. In May this year. Five Polish TV channels in Vilnius will be re-transmitted, which will help to maintain the links of our compatriots with the living Polish culture. Other issues will be the subject of the joint work of both our governments. We expect Belarus to apply to the Polish minority the standards set by international law and international organisations, as well as those enshrined in the common treaty. On the other hand, Poles in Germany are looking forward to fulfilling the Treaty obligations, in particular on educational issues. We aim to ensure that Poles living abroad get all the rights that result from bilateral agreements and international standards. The subject of our special treatments will be to increase the availability of Polish language teaching, especially for children of school age. Last year, an amendment to the Repatriation Act adopted by the High House entered into force. It will facilitate the return of all willing and entitled Poles and Polish people. The Polish State's concern about Poles living in the East is the Polish Charter Act adopted 10 years ago. During this period, 200 thousand were spent. cards, of which almost 30,000 last year. At the initiative of the President, Polish school pupils receive national school IDs. Last year, 31,000 of them were released. The presence of a large Polish community in the West is an opportunity to actively promote Polish interests. We will develop a network of Polish consultative councils at Polish institutions abroad and support Polish organizations and education. We would like our fellow countrymen to become an important ally of the government in promoting the Polish state line by working closely with Polish diplomatic and consular offices. At the same time, we hope that the economic growth of Poland, the improvement of the standard of living of its citizens and the decline of unemployment will induce many of our compatriots to return to their homeland. We're counting on it and getting them to do it. High Seym! In the 100th anniversary of regaining our independence, we plan a series of actions promoting Polish culture and political tradition, with particular emphasis on the civilization of the Republic as one of the oldest parliamentary democracies in Europe. The 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism will be celebrated in July in the presence of parliament presidents from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. On the occasion of the anniversary Poland will show its solidarity and awareness of the community of historical fates with other nations in our region, which, 100 years ago with us, came into independence. Polish institutes in 24 countries adapt their activities to the needs and priorities of Polish foreign policy. We will develop the local and civic dimension of Polish foreign policy, using a network of regional centres of international debate. The involvement of local authorities in initiatives such as the Silk Trail or the Tri-More is an important complement to international agreements. The local government dimension is particularly important due to the already mentioned COP24 climate summit in Katowice. The debate on the amendment of the Act on IPN made us aware of the difference in the historical memory of Poles and Jews. Maintaining the Historical Truth It's also the preservation of the Holocaust memory sites. We remind you that the necessary condition for carrying out the Holocaust was the destruction of the Polish state. As long as it existed, it defended the life, security and freedom of all citizens of the Republic. [[Applause]] Poland did not cooperate with the occupier in any organized form. She waged a persistent underground struggle with him and alarmed the Allies on the fate of the Jews exterminated by the Third Reich. She punished the death of Polish citizens for acts of cooperation in this crime. Informing about this global public opinion will be one of the important tasks of Polish diplomacy. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Development aid is an investment in the stability and security of the world, and thus Poland. According to the multi-annual development aid programme for 2016-2020, the main recipients of Polish aid are Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Ethiopia, Kenya, Myanmar, Palestine, Senegal and Tanzania. In 2017, the Council Poland has allocated 2.5 billion PLN to development aid. Humanitarian aid - PLN 167 million we have allocated to the people affected by the crises in the Middle East, including Syrian refugees. Last year we provided medical care for over 25,000. refugees in Lebanon, Jordan and Iraqi Kurdistan and access to education for nearly 1 000. Children in Lebanon. [[Applause]] High Izbo! An effective foreign policy requires a legal framework, appropriate staff and a network of foreign offices. Currently, a total of 4,700 people work at headquarters, of which 900 have a permanent diplomatic degree. [[He won't have it in a minute.]] In order to change these proportions, we will employ young, well-educated people. More than 10 candidates are applying for a place at the Diploma Academy. With the introduction of two recruitments, we will educate 60 applicants per year. Listeners of the academy are present today in this room. [[Applause]] and listen to the debate on foreign policy. We strive to improve the quality and availability of consular care. The Consular Information Centre served 65 thousand last year. telephone calls from our citizens in the United Kingdom and Ireland. This year we are expanding its activities to Germany, France and the Netherlands, the largest concentration of Poles in Western Europe. We strengthen the Polish diplomatic presence in the world - in 2017 we opened an embassy in Panama with accreditation for eight countries of the region and an embassy in the United Republic of Tanzania, including accreditation for neighbouring countries. In January this year. The embassy in the Republic of the Philippines began its activities. We opened the General Consulates in Houston and Belfast, and the consular office in Montreal was raised to the class of the General Consulate. We're building a new embassy headquarters in Berlin. Under one roof there will be institutions representing political and economic interests of Poland. We are building a new embassy in Minsk. The adaptation of the Palace of Pacs to the seat of the embassy in Vilnius is coming to an end, and the opening will take place in the second half of this year. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The dynamic international situation in Europe and in the world, as well as the many challenges and tasks, has led the High House's report today on the tasks ahead of Polish diplomacy this year to be quite comprehensive. This was also dictated by the need to clearly justify the position of the Republic of Poland, in particular with regard to the ongoing debate on the future of the European Union. An open and responsible political debate aimed at developing the best solutions is the salt of democracy. I hope that my speech will serve the High House for such a debate in the belief that foreign policy is a national matter and not a party matter, and that as such it should be excluded from the natural competition of partying in other areas of political life. I ask the High Sejm to accept government information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. High Seym! Right now I am addressing Mr Jakub Rutnicki. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room during the speech of the Foreign Minister has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a 30-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 26 hours 11]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 13, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary S6 and S11 expressway construction team - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish herbalization - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the expressway S-12 - hour 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 20. I would like to inform you that the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee has been revoked. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u7	Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 117 and 7 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, Minister Jacek Chaputowicz presented the principles of the government's foreign policy for the coming year. The Law and Justice Club shares the vision presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of independent, democratic Poland, which is a legal state in which a democratically elected parliament exercises constitutional control over government policy. We also share the position that the aim of Poland's foreign policy should be to seek the best place for our country among other national countries, which are still and will remain fundamental participants in contemporary international relations. It is obvious to us that nothing about us without us. It is democratic national states that participate in the process of European and transatlantic integration, include alliances and work together to tackle global challenges. The basic principles set out by the Minister in the four main thesis are fully understandable. We are glad that we finally have a government that is capable of implementing the Polish state's so understood right. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Year 20,000, 18th... [[Two thousand.]] 2018 is the year of the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. The anniversaries always provide an opportunity to speak about fundamental matters, not only about glows, but also about shadows. In the last 100 years - despite the period of the Polish People's Republic, when it was not possible to conduct a free and sovereign foreign policy in the country or in emigration - we have dealt with two approaches to Poland's place in the world and foreign policy. The first approach was based on our Polish complexes. For so long we had no country of our own, so long foreign powers ruled in our country, decided about Polish matters without asking us about the opinion that unfortunately there were also such Poles, whom this state of affairs entered into the blood, and they began to recognize this state of affairs as natural. They began to believe that others could rule, and Poles would never be able to rule. Some people still believe that for this reason Poles should renounce their own identity, which they are not able to defend, and accept identity, customs and foreign interests. Obedience to allow ourselves to rule foreign powers, become part of their interests, since our own, Polish, we cannot have. The attitude of Radosław Sikorski, the prominent ambassador of all Polish complexes, called the Polish Negroness... [[Madame, really, this is your foreign policy, so talk about what you are doing.]] ...and then he spoke about his own political environment, Prime Minister. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] A foreign policy based on these complexes was based on the approach of non-harassment to powers, for ignoring small and medium-sized countries, turning away from our region, from our neighbours. Mr Chaputowicz rightly emphasized in his speech that Poland's actions in the world, its foreign policy must stem from the fact that in Central Europe we are the country with the greatest political, military, economic and population potential. If we turn our backs on the region, if we ignore our closest partners, as the government of Donald Tusk used to do, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We are losing our chance for our own identity in Europe and in the world. Two. The current approach to foreign policy in our tradition was based on the belief that giving up reminding Poland, our Polish identity, culture and language means working with the invaders and invaders in the work of liquidating Poland and Poles as a nation and as a political entity. It was a relentless attitude based on the belief that only raising the Polish case, the fight for Polish interests is the only way to restore the Polish state to the map of Europe. [[But where are we now?]] 100 years ago Poland regained its independence, because Poles voted for this attitude. This lesson guides my political camp. Law and Justice are in favour of rejecting complexes and fighting for Polish interests, not giving in to foreign violence, not giving in to difficulties. Only in this way will Poland be able to strengthen its position on the international stage. Polish foreign policy conducted with a raised head, without complexes is a foreign policy of the Government of Law and Justice. It's a really good change policy. [[For your own.]] We are pleased that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with the complex against the stronger fights. [[Applause]] [[What's with the complexes?]] You're the ones with the complexes. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! However, we must be aware that after eight years of government of black people, the situation was really... [[Voice from the room: No complexes.]] ...tough. Everyone in the world, in Europe, they're used to it... [[And the 27-1?]] ...that Poland is giving in, not defending its own interests, importing policies and decisions made in other capitals, and the only thing that is really interested in is the stools for its politicians in the European institutions, in international institutions. And yes, this policy has been successful, few. For example, Donald Tusk was successful, Krzysztof Lisek was successful, Tusk got him a job in Brussels, Mikołaj Dowgielewicz, minister in Tusk's government, was also successful - he became governor of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe. Has he ever been a banker before? Not at all! [[Voice from the room: What level? What are you talking about?]] Donald Tusk's government got him a job. It was a way of doing foreign policy by the Civic Platform. [[You're insulting your minister.]] When the Poles in the election removed the Platform ministers from power, they found a job... [[Mrs...]] ...in foreign governments. Sławomir Nowak and Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz employed the government of Ukraine. Radosław Sikorski found a job... [[That's embarrassing.]] ...in a lobbying company. Jan Krzysztof Bielecki made his career for Poland... [[Take care of yourself.]] ...let's remind: social advisor Tusk, who worked for Tusk pro bono, not to reveal... [[Tusk's not your friend.]] ...your income. Let's also remind you that earlier Bielecki... [[But what is it, marshal?]] ...he became a nomenclature banker. Working at the European Development Bank... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The truth hurts, doesn't it? ...gets him the government of the Freedom Union. Poles were told that he would take care of Polish interests there... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb me. You are about to address this in the debate. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: But this is not about.]] Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u10	He cared, cared, yes... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u11	Don't let him provoke you. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u12	...like Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz as President of Warsaw. Let us remind you that Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, the Polish government, also got a job in the same bank. We were gonna... [[Voice from the room: What is it that we are talking about?]] ...to deal with subjecting the state of the cause of private careers to prominent citizens of the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all remember Donald Tusk's travels through Europe's capitals in 2014 when he... [[Voice from the hall: This is an exposé?]] ...Russian tanks ran over Ukraine. Officially the Prime Minister of the Polish Government sought support for Ukraine, in fact sought support for his own candidacy as President of the European Council. It's hard to forget, too... [[The voice from the hall: And Ukraine resented him?]] ...about the epic of Radosław Sikorski's running for various international positions, and this is the Secretary-General of NATO, and this is the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy, and this is the Commissioner for Energy. From such a foreign policy, consisting in taking care of foreign sons, Poles had no advantage. Personally, I believe that the forthcoming reform of the foreign service should be used to introduce a legal ban on applying for positions in international organisations and institutions for the foreign ministers in office. [[Applause]] If someone is applying for a job abroad, he should first resign from office in Poland. The interests of the State cannot be mixed with private interests. High Izbo! Last year we witnessed one of the most successful Polish diplomatic campaigns, [[Joy in the Chamber]] which resulted in President Donald Trump's visit to the top of the leadership... [[27:1.]] [[Polish concentration camps.pl.]] ...the countries that have decided to initiate... ...a new format of multilateral cooperation in our region, the Tri-marine initiative. President Trump not only accepted the invitation from President Andrzej Duda to Warsaw, but made the Tri-Morch initiative a priority for American politics in Europe. When we recall how much effort the opposition devoted to laughing at the visits to Washington by Minister Szczerski, Minister Waszczykowski and Polish-Croatian co-operation on the organisation of the Tri-Morch Summit in Warsaw with the participation of the President of the United States, we will see that the opposition is not interested in Poland's successes. The opposition defends the success of their careers. [[It's a massacre.]] High Izbo! Relations with the United States have found the right place in Minister Chaputowicz's speech. These are strategic relationships. We are pleased that in Polish territory we host American soldiers, not only as a result of the implementation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw to strengthen the eastern NATO flank, but also on the basis of bilateral agreements - in Poland an American base is being established in Redzików, whose task will be to defend against missile attacks. The recent threat posed by North Korea's policy shows how much anti-missile defence is needed and how important Polish-American cooperation in this area is. Poland is a credible ally of the United States, and we will be happy to host every American soldier in Poland. We're gonna cheer on the government for this presence to steadily increase. We will also support the government's efforts to strengthen cooperation with the United States on energy security. Last year, our LNG terminal in Świnoujście began to reach the first supply of American liquefied gas. It's a great success for the government of good change. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Poland, thanks to its cooperation with the United States, is becoming more resistant to Russian energy blackmail. We call on the government to make efforts to obtain American support to counter construction that is dangerous for Europe as a whole, which undermines its security and solidarity in the Northern Gas pipeline project. II. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports the government recognising that the North Atlantic Alliance is fundamental to the security of Europe, our region and thus Poland. It is good that the summit of the Tri-Morza initiative in Warsaw and the visit of the President of the United States to Poland have created an excellent opportunity to highlight the importance of the Alliance for transatlantic relations. This should be the role of Poland in these relations: fulfilling allies' obligations, cooperation in the region, mobilizing our regional partners to act and creating the conditions for the whole Alliance to demonstrate unity, effectiveness and determination in carrying out its tasks, especially the main task - to ensure the security of its members. It is worth recalling that the Government of Law and Justice adopted a law last year ensuring a steady increase in funding for the Polish Armed Forces. Poland will not only spend at least 2% on defence GDP, i.e. fulfilling its obligations in NATO, but as a state of the eastern flank of the Alliance will systematically increase these expenditures. That is the policy we support. There is no strong and trusting partners of Polish foreign policy without fulfilling allies' obligations and without a strong army. The Law and Justice Club will support the government in building a strong and effective Polish army. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A great challenge for Polish foreign policy will be to give Europe a new direction of development after the UK has left the European Union. The Law and Justice Club advocates the vision presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki to strive for European integration to regain the support of European societies again. It must be a stronger, smarter, safer and more united Union. Poland should seek to restore balance between large and small countries in the European Union. Every EU country, even the smallest, must regain a sense of participation, influence and ownership in relation to the process of European integration. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the government's position against sharing the Union and shaping a two-speed Europe. The deficit of democracy in Europe is a major problem. We must always remember that the strongest mandate in the European Union is for the Member States and not for the EU institutions. It is a good thing that the government is implementing a plan of termination, based on a misunderstanding, of a dispute with the European Commission on the rule of law. Poland is a democratic legal state... [[Not anymore, not anymore.]] ...and there is no threat in Poland to the rule of law justifying the interest of the institutions of the European Union. Yes, we have problems in Poland with the efficiency of the justice system and the quality of justice it is dealing with, but these are matters which Poland as a Member State will solve under its own national competence. These are not cases that have ever been referred to the EU level. The government's actions hope that this issue will finally be properly explained to all the partners in the European Union. [[Voice from the room: Something's not going well.]] High Izbo! The Tri-Moor Summit in Warsaw is a symbol of the direction of action in the field of foreign policy, which is advocated by the Government of Law and Justice. It is about giving our entire region a greater subjectivity in the European Union between the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea and the Adriatic Sea. All the peoples of this region want to participate equally in the building of a common Europe. They do not just want to be a market for Western European countries and provide cheap labour. They don't want to live under the threat of energy blackmail. Therefore, Poland should help the countries of the region overcome development delays in road, rail, ICT and energy infrastructure. This is what the Tri-marine initiative is for, and we are very pleased that it will continue to be developed and deepened. [[Applause]] It should also serve as an instrument for coordinating the positions of the countries of the region in the negotiations of the new financial perspective of the European Union which is already taking place. Cooperation with the Visegrad Group countries in the European Union and NATO in the Bucharest format should also play an important role in government policy. An excellent opportunity to strengthen cooperation in the area of security in our region will be created by the summit of the Bucharest nine in June in Warsaw. High Izbo! On the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, Poland began its term of office as a permanent member of the Security Council. And again we heard from the opposition how Poland is isolated in the world, how nothing means how nothing it can get. Yes, Poland has stopped seeking positions for the politicians of the Civic Platform. It has indeed ceased to be effective here, but thanks to this it has regained its ability to act in its own interest, in the interests of the state, in the interests of Poles. It's starting to arouse respect in the world. Poland is no longer seen as a former colony, a bantustan, in which politicians running governments can be bought at the expense of artificial beads, promising them positions in international institutions and lifelong retirement, much better than Poles will get. [[What about your bonuses?]] It is thanks to the change in Polish foreign policy, thanks to a good change in 98% the participating countries, entitled to vote for the non-permanent members of the Security Council, supported Poland, 98%. [[Applause]] Poland was elected without opposition. This is an expression of respect and appreciation for independent Poland. Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about responsibility for peace and security in the world, which will rest on Poland as a permanent member of the UN Security Council for the next two years. In this case, credibility will be particularly important, and this must be linked to our position towards the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the occupation of its territory. Poland is the only country of the European Union and NATO that is neighbouring both Russia and Ukraine at war. It is important to strive for Poland to regain its position as a country actively shaping the positions of both institutions, NATO and the European Union, against this conflict. Unfortunately, we are not in Normandy format, because President Komorowski in Normandy in 2014 preferred to admire the views rather than guard Polish interests. [[What's wrong with you?]] On the other hand, Donald Tusk and Radosław Sikorski were busy getting jobs and pensions in the European Union. [[Voice from the room: Stop...]] We're not here for you, my dear fellow. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It is good that Poland recalls Ukraine's perspective of membership of the European Union and NATO. Thanks to Polish activity it was not possible to submit to the tomb of the Eastern Partnership, we also provide military and economic assistance to Ukraine. This is important because this is how we demonstrate that neither Poland nor the European Union nor NATO will be intimidated by Russia. Russia's attack on Ukraine, as a result of which, I will remind you, more than 12 thousand died. human beings, chemical weapons attacks, and threats from time to time to use nuclear weapons will not scare anybody, they cannot close their way to Europe or take away their chances of increasing their own prosperity. The fight against Ukrainians for democracy and the European election for Maydan in 2004, 2013, 2014 was supported in Poland. The fight of Ukrainians to regain their territorial integrity also deserves Polish support. It is good that the Polish government supported it. It should continue to do so, as it should support Ukraine's efforts to join NATO and the European Union. Ukraine, attacked by Russia, is defending itself, also strengthening its identity, reaching after nationalism. It is aimed at Russia, but unfortunately sometimes it also reveals itself in relations with Poland. Our government must take action to ensure that Ukrainian nationalism does not threaten good relations between Poles and Ukrainians. We cannot accept the fact that the Ukrainian state prohibits the exhumation of Polish victims of historical cataclysms under dubious pretexts. We cannot remain indifferent when Ukrainian ministers publicly undermine the territorial integrity of Poland during the interwar period. We also have to react when UPA and the National Army are on a national level. Ukrainian officials try to impose this interpretation based on false symmetry as a paradigm of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation, and the worship of UPA even legalize in Poland. Quoting the words of the great Ukrainian patriot of the metropolitan Andrej Szeptycki: Crimes are not used for the national cause. Crime committed in the name of patriotism is a crime not only against God, but also against our own society - it is a crime against our homeland. [[Applause]] The mere combination of murder with light and lofty work for the national cause indicates that the matter is stained and muddled. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of our region increasing prosperity so that it is the fastest growing part of Europe. This is what dialogue with Russia should be about. However, it should be used to convince Russia to abandon its policies of violence and violence, to stop attacking its neighbours - this year it is 10 years since Russian aggression against Georgia and secretive murders - to stop dissidents in Russia, such as Galina Starowojtowa or Boris Niemcow. Nothing we would wish for more than prosperity for the Russians and their country, but our experience in Europe shows that prosperity is not driven by the politics of aggression and conquests, it does not lead to politics resorting to war, intimidation and secretive murders. We therefore wish the Russians to break up with such politics and withdraw from occupied Ukrainian territories. The litmus paper of Russian intentions will be the attitude of the Russian authorities to the issue of returning Polish property, which is the wreckage of the Polish special aircraft TU-154, which crashed at Smolensk 8 years ago. Russia claims that it cannot return the wreck because the investigation has not been completed, personally supervised by the Russian President. This case shows symbolically, under which conditions comes the Law and Justice government to conduct Polish foreign policy. Had it not been for the mistake made by the government of Donald Tusk in April 2010, if it had decided to investigate jointly on the basis of a military agreement to investigate the accidents of military aircraft and not the Chicago Convention, the wreckage would have been in Poland long ago, [[Applause]] And so Russia can still twist hay. The relationship to Smolensk will be treated by us as a probie of Russian intentions towards Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The condition for the effectiveness of Polish foreign policy is the efficient, high moral service of diplomats. Unfortunately, there is much evidence that the government's actions are hindered by the fact that in Polish diplomacy there are still people who are corrupted. [[Oh, Kharkov!]] The proof of this, ladies and gentlemen, is the recent disclosure of the Polish embassy's memo from talks with representatives of the American administration - a standard conversation, but among the Polish diplomats there was, however, a person who decided to break the Polish diplomatic secret for a career. [[Voice from the room: Good change!]] For such people there is no place in Polish diplomacy. We call on the government to take vigorous action to eliminate people corrupted from the Polish diplomats. Everyone, I repeat, who is loyal to the state and to the service of their country should have a chance to continue it, but it must not be delayed to adopt the Foreign Service Act. The spring of dysfunction in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and often also pathological phenomena is the lack of break-up by the office with institutional tradition and administrative culture of the Polish People's Republic. As a result of a political decision, the office was first excluded from the process of systemic transformation after 1989 - similarly to the Ministry of Justice - and then by the power of inertia and intentional action for more than a quarter of a century did not adapt to the needs of the foreign policy of a democratic and sovereign state. People's Poland was a non-sovereign state, hence the basic function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - service of foreign policy - was of secondary importance. The most important task of all institutions of the Polish People's Republic was to defend the system, so the deep ties of the office with the special services of the Polish People's Republic are a consequence of this. The institutional tradition of the Polish People's Republic made special services, especially military ones, usual to think that the office is their instrument and that they stand higher in the administrative hierarchy. After 1989, the traditions of the institutional associations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the special services of the Polish People's Republic became a network of informal links, personal relationships, which over time have developed into developed cathedrals, unclear arrangements, dependencies contrary not only to the principles of effective management, but also to the interests of the Polish state. High Izbo! The ongoing legislative work on the revision of the Foreign Service Act assumes verification within 6 months of the entry into force of the novel of all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - approx. 1 000. people with a diplomatic degree and nearly 4,000. The others. [[That wasn't in the speech.]] Under the proposed provisions, the employment relationship expires by law to those who do not have new conditions. This will allow a significant exchange of staff and minimise the costs of carrying it out. The exchange of staff requires a wide opening of recruitment for persons with the necessary competences to work in diplomacy, which under current conditions have little opportunity to take up work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will support the government's efforts to restore Poland's subjective international position. It will support policies breaking away from inferiority complexes against great and superior to small ones. We will also support the reform of Polish diplomacy. We are in favour of adopting government information on the planned actions in foreign policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u13	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's exposé is always important, it is important to talk about foreign policy, but I would like to refer in a few sentences to these few words, to what has just been said. We will do this in the next installments of our speeches, because there have been many lies and unnecessary provocations, I do not know what the result is, whether from the ignorance of Mrs Gosievska or simply from the wrong will. Security Council - a common Polish success. Ask Minister Waszczykowski who led him to it. First Minister Sikorski and Prime Minister Tusk, then I had the pleasure to lead this issue together with Prime Minister Kopacz, in 2015 there was Bulgaria's agreement and our agreement that the withdrawal of the Bulgarian candidate resulted in a vote in New York. Minister Waszczykowski sits closely, ask him. Please don't lie here. [[Applause]] Contests - short. It is important to be proud that Poles win international competitions, that they win competitions in Europe. We're proud of it. People who are predisposed are prepared to win in an open competition procedure in the European Union, win competitions, take important positions. That's what we're proud of, and you're ashamed of it, because it's absurd. [[Applause]] But I understand why you're ashamed. Because you guys don't like competitions. I am not talking about the fact that you do not stand for competitions at all in Europe or in the world, but you also do not like them in companies of the Treasury. [[Applause]] I mean, everybody knows you guys do money jumping around here, not competitions. And finally a gasport. That is what I want to say, too, because it is the Prime Minister, the government of Prime Minister Tusk, the government of Ewa Kopacz from the beginning to the end. What you did about the gasport was to give him a name and... [[Open again.]] ...second commitment, re-imposition and preparation of the plaque. [[Voice from the room: Whose initiative was it?]] That's it. [[Applause]] That's it. So that I would ask you not to deceive the public... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...because young people listen to us and you will remember that you are not telling the truth. One more time, then... The rest will be told by your colleagues to receive this knowledge in the packages, which concerns your lies, because you are lying on purpose, misleading the public opinion in the Polish Parliament. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] We listened to the exposé of Minister Chaputowicz. It is also historic, we talked about this: 2018, the century of regaining independence, but not, as the Minister said by accident, a century of independence. We got our independence back in 1918, of course, and that's also good... That's where we agree. There won't be many cases like this, but I'd like to say there's a procedure. The Exposé Minister of Foreign Affairs has a long tradition: from Ignacy Jan Paderewski - he as Minister of Foreign Affairs presented the Polish Sejm with foreign policy directions, which he will guide. So we're kind of in the historical convention also included in the anniversary of regaining independence. What I'm trying to say is that you've talked a lot about heritage. This is the legacy of 100 years. But here's the question, Minister: What are you doing with this legacy? You did, I mean. How do you use this story for 100 years, what do you learn from it? This is... And I don't want to talk to you personally, because this is part of your two years. I even talked about it last year, a year ago, when Minister Waszczykowski presented an exposé to the Foreign Minister. It was not entirely his fault, as it is not your fault, but what you do with Poland, what your government does with foreign policy, it is a shame and it is a disgrace, and unfortunately we all know it, and we are really sorry about it. [[Applause]] And the main author of this scenario today is absent. Apparently, we met too soon for this debate. Now I want to refer to what you said to those four, too. I understand that the exposé is always four pillars, the foundations. You talked about it on the committee yesterday, you signaled it, you said it today. First, Poland's strong position in Europe, its attractiveness, its impact on decision-making processes. I understand that this is your expectation, but it is quite the opposite of what you told us here today. After all, every child knows that you have destroyed the position of Poland, Poland, the attractiveness of our country. We have no control over decisions. Everybody knows that, too. [[Applause]] That's first of all. The second thesis you have put forward: the European Union is in crisis, there has been, I quote, a crisis in democratic procedures and a transfer of real decision-making processes to informal bodies in some Member States. This is absolutely 100 percent truth and right, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] only with this appeal to Nowogrodzka and Żoliborz, [[Applause]] Over there, Minister, not here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're here... Absolutely 100% You have our full support. [[To the decision-making centers.]] Yes, sir. And the third thing. Transatlantic bonds are the foundation of Polish security. 100% Permission. 100% Permission, but why are you destroying these bonds? Why is your government through the activities we're all going to talk about here destroying these ties, why are you destroying these transatlantic ties and destroying your relationship with the United States, our key strategic ally? After all, in Washington they have already told you that they will not meet with the President, with the Prime Minister, after all, this is common knowledge in Europe and in the world. [[Touchdown, applause]] And fourthly, the fourth thesis, with which we agree: Russia's policy is a threat. I would say this: this is not a particularly great discovery, but I respect that you have seen it and mentioned it as a pillar of our policy. Just tell me why you've been holding Macierewicz as Minister of National Defence for the past two years... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...which is the symbol of this threat today, which led to it, to all this trouble. And these are four thesis of course important, because they sort of build or open the whole speech. Let me be absolutely clear: we know each other a little bit and know each other, we all know your card, your good card in the '80s democratic opposition, and I want you to understand very well what we want to say here today. You're a notary of this bad policy, of bad foreign policy. You, coming in as Minister of Foreign Affairs... I don't want to quote President Kaczyński anymore, who said you were an experiment. I do not think so because everyone has the chance and everyone has the opportunity, but you are a notary, you notify her, this foreign policy, that's all that was wrong, as Minister Waszczykowski did. Your name will be included in the scenario of these bad times of Polish foreign policy and you must know that. [[Applause]] Why is she angry? That is why, first of all, it is a conflict policy, it is a policy of conflicting with neighbours, disrespect in the European Union, bad relations with the West and relations with the East, which have never been good and now are fatal. So there is a question about the role, what is the role of the Polish government and what are your plans. This is where you talked about everything, completely without emphasising the things that are most important. And what's the most important thing? That's what we have to say to each other. What is most important is these absolute pillars of foreign policy, international policy. That's reputation and credibility. Unfortunately, we don't have one or the other. After all, these two years, the last two years have been a complete disaster in terms of these two issues. Trusting allies, we'd add. Where is it? Effective argumentation of Polish law. The proper functioning of state institutions in Poland is a mandate to create an effective foreign policy. And what do we have in Poland? Where's the diplomacy? What's the situation in the army? Where are our servants? What instruments do you have, what is your instrumentarium for effective foreign policy? Fatal, chaotic and conflicted. And finally, what's most important is what you've completely lost, what you've trashed. We have always said, since 1989: consensus around the Polish foreign policy, consensus around the Polish state right. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] There's no alternative. There's an alternative because you're doing a policy that you can't listen to and you don't want to hear. And it will also be your role to simply raise your head and look at this political reality and listen to the voices of the opposition. We've been talking about this for two years, and that's what we've been demanding. So what you serve in foreign policy is chaos. You guys love this state at all. You're the masters of leading such chaotic, emotional reactions. [[Contrasts, Mr. Chairman, concrete.]] Even a politician to be active is in chaos. It's either internal policy or external policy. Because you can see how it all goes from wall to wall. This is irresponsible. Diplomacy is peace, consistency, distance and effectiveness, which is all you don't understand and just don't do. I would also like to say that a few days ago, President Duda, who had previously addressed internal policy, spoke in such a very distinctive way about the domestic change. Fun and embarrassment - that's what he called foreign policy. I believe that what he said at Stone Mountain was a catastrophic statement by the President of the State who compared the time of the partitions to our presence in the European Community. It's totally unacceptable. [[Applause]] I am saying this very clearly today and I hope that the services of the President will convey this to him. This is an unacceptable language in the mouth of the head of state... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] ...no Polish politics in the mouth. It's just absolutely impossible to say that. You may find this amusing, but we're embarrassed. We're paying a huge price for this. Like I said, these are complexes that are supposed to replace or replace national pride. This is a failure that replaces professionalism. You talk a lot about historical politics, so this is where I'd like to meet your expectations. I will quote Józef Piłsudski, who spoke about the war on two fronts. He said if we fought a war on two fronts, we'd be left alone with the swords in our hands in Saski Square. But it's nothing, because you guys are running a conflict policy on all fronts. [[Applause]] I mean, it's hard to imagine there's more to it than that. No, it's just not possible. This is a matter of conflict that you have led to. The European Union - you were in the European Union, you know how they treat us there. [[Voice from the room: We are in the Union.]] Of course we are in the Union, but during your visits to Brussels, you heard that. Relations with the Germans. You know, we're not kids in politics. It can be said that Chancellor Merkel's Monday visit was a groundbreaking meeting. I remember a meeting a year ago when Chancellor Merkel arrived. Then you talked, she met with you, the meeting was longer, it lasted close all day, maybe half. She talked to everyone: the rulers and the opposition. You said that there was a great discussion - two days later there was an exposé of Minister Waszczykowski - that there were great relations that there was a great new opening in relations with Germany. And how did it end? After two days, you attacked the Germans. What you did last year after her visit and after Minister Waszczykowski's exposé is just a political tsunami. You've completely ruined this relationship. Where are they now? It's about the closest neighbour we have an economic relationship with, whether we're in the Weimar Triangle, who really was our partner, supported our presence and... [[Joy in the Chamber]] What are you laughing at? [[Voice from the room: The triangle was a partner.]] The Weimar Triangle is the key to an effective policy. And that's what's left of your chuckle. [[Voice from the room: Drama.]] This is a substitute for the foreign policy you're doing. Just empty laughter and laughter is your whole foreign policy. [[Applause]] Please pay attention to the Member because he always does it, and now it was clear. And there's no problem. You're looking for conflict, because the conflict with the Germans you started is one thing, but there's a conflict with the French. After all, we were not the ones who claimed that we taught them how to eat with a fork, but that's what your fellow Members, your ministers said. The chopper conflict, the start of a total war with the French. Ukraine, Israel, the United States, the IPN Act. After all, this signal from America, which is not demented by the State Department, saying that if there is no revised IPN Act, there will be no contacts at the highest level, it is not a protocol regret. After all, the Americans don't want to hurt you or hurt us, they just want to show you that you can't just do politics like that. You can't function in two realities, you say one thing and you do the other. The policy is to build trust, to build relationships. And it takes years. You build relationships and trust for years, and you destroy them within a week. We're witnesses that you just did. Now we have such a situation that all these relationships I am talking about are the worst since 1989. No one has any doubts about that. You can say that this is an element of getting up off your knees and regaining your dignity. It's all not true. It's all fake. The effect of this is that everyone is surprised to see Polish politics, the Polish government, its effectiveness. [[Applause]] That's what you've led to. Ukraine. I'm talking about Ukraine separately. We will also talk... will talk about the European Union by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, who will talk about Ukraine by Mr Sławomir Nitras, because this is a very important thing, it concerns not only historical policy, but a living, clean policy - one that we need to conduct in a thoughtful, consistent way. It's a legacy. You were talking about historical heritage. I'm talking about George Giedroyc. I mentioned Józef Piłsudski. You're gonna laugh about that, too? Be my guest. Be my guest. [[Voice from the room: Don't bother. Culture.]] I'm talking about the fundamentals that you don't take, because relations with Ukraine can't just be half-asseds and a trip to history. It can't be that we run radical capabilities and activities on one side and on the other, because it's just ruining us. It is the relationship with Ukraine that has been a guarantee of our security in the East for the last 30 years. [[Applause]] He's an elementaryr, you know that! And now if Polish foreign policy is not offensive, it is not present, it is not talking about difficult problems, it is not able to take up challenges, then there are radicals, just such shouting who... It is their voice that is heard, whether in relations with Ukraine or in relations with Israel. It's just what you've led to because of all the thoughtless shouts that are being heard all over the world. [[Applause]] After all, what you say is what you scream about, how you do it - the whole world hears it. It's not like we're locked in a jar. They can hear you. They see you, they hear you, they see you, they judge you. [[Voice from the hall: You too.]] That's the sad truth. [[Applause]] I'm going back to Ukraine because you know very well that we need to recreate these relationships. It's got to be a signal. That is why we are talking about the lack of consent to exhumation, but this is an action and reaction: this nervous debate that is taking place, these emotions that appear, must be interrupted politically. There must be a commitment to these issues on your agenda. There must be a situation in which we draw up, we have an initiative on these issues. We build new relationships, relationships of the future, and you keep coming back to history, constantly to the past, constantly analyzing what happened. Politics is the future. Politics is building the future, it is building political and economic success. This is the future of our children, the next generations. This is politics. [[Applause]] That's what you need to understand. And you're still history, history and historians. Stop dealing with history. Let the historians take care of it from all sides. Let them talk about the most difficult things, but let it be a fair thing, which will have our cover, the cover of politicians, so that research can be conducted so that debate can be held. I think it's a key. We talked about it, and we talked about it like a lens. you can see the issue of the IPN Act, which losses were created by the implementation of this law. First 15 months in the freezer. Expressly, to cover the government's image problems due to radical nationalistic excesses... After 15 months, it suddenly lands in the Seym. And then what happens? When it was known that there was no acceptance that there was amazement, surprise, then anger in Israel, that Americans were surprised that the Ukrainians were astonished, it was known that this procedure was ongoing, and we had to react then. This is the work of the Foreign Minister. That's when you had to react. Then you should say, "Don't do this." We talked about it: don't do it. There was the Senate, there were hours, there were days to the Senate, then there was the President's signature. That's when you had to react. It's your job, it's your duty. And you didn't. [[Applause]] That's why we said there'd be losses, there'd be damage, we'd better wait. Let's think about it. Let's read it again. Let's see what the consequences are. That's what it's all about, getting ready to know what the consequences are. That's what foreign policy is all about. And unfortunately, you didn't. Restoring credibility. I was talking about how important this is because there is no good, effective international policy without credibility. Poland was respected. In recent years - I would even say that since 1989 - all foreign ministers year after year, month after month were building Poland's position on the international stage. It was better, less, faster, slower, but we were in this course that led us to the heart of Europe. We returned to our place, and Poland will always be in the west of Europe and will always be in the heart of Europe. And that's where we were going. For 28 years. [[Applause]] By 2015 And I will say that if you are respected, if you have a position, if you are an actor in politics, then you can talk about difficult things. After all, we were talking about Zegocie, we were talking about Poles who saved Jews during World War II, but we were also able to talk about difficult things. We were also talking about the Polish Righteous. What's going on today? You've ruined it. I'm saying this to you because you had nothing to do with it. Yes, you have built... with the symbol "Żegota" from Władysław Bartoszewski you have made a political opponent. You destroyed the legend of Polish history. [[Applause]] That's the truth. Today you're talking about Zegota? What moral right do you have to talk about Zegota if you decommunize the streets and the Righteous who protected the Jews then, saved the lives of the Jews, removed the street names? That's the truth about your history policy today. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And it's a mess, an amateur. We witness such activities every day, but this is also your job and the challenge to your activity. This ministry must respond to this, this ministry must be active, have an initiative in these matters. This really is very important because it stays: every voice, every thoughtless move or terrible decision. You can't give yourself the face of xenophobic, anti-Semites, what you try to do in the world, after all, enemies do it, those who wish us badly. They are building this image of Poles. We can't let that happen. We must recall the best times of Polish history, but we must be able to do it openly and talk about difficult things, not be afraid of it. Only a strong nation, a strong state is able to take up a conversation about its difficult times, about difficult stories. [[Applause]] It has to be, there is no alternative to such a policy. That is why I think that what you have rejected, the proposals we have tabled, that is, the debate in the Senate, the amendments in the Senate, the amendments in the Senate, I return to the IPN law, finally our amendment, which we consulted with all the communities, with the Polish cultural institutes, with the Polin Museum, with the Jewish Historical Institute, with the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences... We were doing everything we could to prepare a good amendment to do it after all the problems that had arisen, because we all saw that there were huge problems that were completely out of control for the Polish government. You didn't, you couldn't control it, because it's already started bouncing, it was emotions not only in Poland, not only in Europe, but also in the world. So we make this amendment, we send it to President Duda, and there's no response. You don't want to talk just because the opposition party is calling her in because it's called in by the Civic Platform. This is ridiculous. It's a good amendment that just needs to be adopted to correct the wrong law. Where's your initiative on this? That's what you have to say. You have to have the courage to say it at the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Tell Morawiecki how you speak Polish so he knows it's just saving the situation. Prime Minister Morawiecki should understand, he is a historian. She won't understand? I think he should understand. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If he reads it, if you can convince him, he should understand. You want a debate, you want a dialogue, you want a partnership? Let's adopt a bill amending the IPN Act. Let's do it. [[Applause]] Let's do it now, in the interests of Poland and the Polish state. We'll check and ask, go ahead. The responsibility of Polish foreign policy, European alliances, smart alliances, bilateral, built in common relations, the European Union, the most important partners. Not looking for enemies, opponents, but those with whom we can be with, speak one language, build a common conviction, have an impact on politics with them. That was when the Weimar Triangle was supported by the Visegrad Group. I will always say this and always say this to me by the Foreign Ministers of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Strong Visegrad Group, subjective Visegrad Group, only when Poland is in the Weimar Triangle when it affects foreign policy. That's what we had, that's the key. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] No one should break down an open door, it's an elemental. There is no better scenario for Polish foreign policy in Europe than the Visegrad Group combined with the Weimar Triangle. What you did to the Weimar Triangle, I told you, you trashed it. There are no meetings. You told the committee yesterday that the French had another idea that it might be possible to talk to the Germans about it. It's not gonna work. Or you do reset, you sum up these two years, and you say we're back to good, normal, open relationships - you don't teach the Germans, you don't reprimand the French, you don't tell them about the reparations... Can you think in politics, or do you have to think about who's talking about knees? You guys get off your knees in such a way that you flipped over and fell, and I don't want to tell you what, [[Applause]] Because we're in Parliament. You can't do politics like you do, you can't be aggressive. This is the whole scenario of your policy debate, every policy. You scream, raise your voice... [[You're insulting me.]] ...and at the end, you still scare Members with punishment. That's not how you talk in politics. It's not politics, it's a hucpa, it's a fuss. [[Applause]] You're going to pay a political price for this, because in foreign policy, these people are missing out. If someone screams, if someone is aggressive, if someone is constantly teaching, if he is still unique and the best and is right in everything, looking for enemies, it always ends this way, ends up on the margin, on the car. This is your way. [[Applause]] There's a century of Europe, and I've talked about it, and I've also said that it's always a threat... Our safety will always be our priority, it will be our priority, I am convinced that for all parliamentarians, for all clubs. It is obvious - we want to be safe, we want to have security guarantees, but these guarantees need to be built, these guarantees need to be confirmed, they need to be cherished, they need to be taken care of. You can't say we want to be safe and everything is done. Notabene, I'm coming back, 2%. After all, GDP is a decision of our government, at the request of President Komorowski. [[Applause]] We must remember that we have done quite a lot, and we will keep our fingers crossed so that this pace is maintained. We know what Minister Macierewicz did for two years, what he's done and how we're gonna get out of this. This does not change the fact that today must be a new beginning, there must be a scenario for the new beginning of Polish foreign policy and you have the chance if you want to prove to President Kaczyński that you are not an experiment that you really want to conduct foreign policy, that you want to be a minister of foreign affairs, like Paderewski or many, many people since 1918. [[Applause]] Polish foreign policy has always been of really great quality and class, and it has to be watched, but it has to be subjective, she has to be individual, she cannot receive signals or access from party centers, because it always ends badly. Then it can be effective. Today we're talking about specifics. It's today... [[Voice from the room: 1st.]] ... On 8 May, a new budget of the Union, a new financial perspective, will be presented to the European Parliament. Maybe she'll be up by a week. You'll be there, there'll be a presentation, there'll be numbers. What does it take to make this budget as big as possible? I'm talking about history, about you being turned over, you have your head crooked towards the past. The future is important, the Polish security and budget for Poland is important, the money is important for Poland. [[Applause]] That's what you have to fight for today. This is a challenge for the Foreign Minister. And to be honest, maybe the minister didn't bring it up, that there was no support from the PiS MEPs. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Nothing. They're not interested in it at all. They're in the money business, one of them at least, but he's already closed this stage because it's been canceled. [[Good.]] He'll be on the record, but things stay. This can't be right. We with our Chadeca faction of EPP, the Civic Platform with the Polish People's Party, are fighting to make money as much as possible, because Brexit, because threats, greater contribution. We agree, but we need to take care of Polish interests, money for Polish farmers, for Polish local governments, for voivodships, for business. I mean, you gotta keep an eye on all this. [[Applause]] We're filing a resolution. - I don't know if they've told you about this - we're convincing the whole faction, the largest faction of the EPP Chadec, and the Europublishers of the PIS are against it. Can you imagine? Do you know the case? [[Applause]] After all, this is an act against Poland. We tell our colleagues here to just teach them that it's not a matter of who's reporting, it's just a matter of reading the records of these resolutions, these proposals, reading them with understanding. This really must serve Polish interests, Polish citizens. You can vote for the Civic Platform projects, believe me, because they are proven and good, not only in Europe, but also in Poland. Modernity and predictability. It's an obvious question. You were talking about the foundations. For me, it's obvious to build it with such a very forward-looking conviction, very open, very offensive, because I think that's the challenge today. We need to look for offensive solutions, we need to have a pace twice, three times faster than everyone else. And it's possible, of course, we talked about it, it's necessary. If we're offensive, we're involved, we're gonna be speeding up, we're gonna be followed by others, just like we've been for the last eight years. [[Applause]] But it's still possible. You have to be the leader of the project, you have to be the leader of the region, but you have to have, as I said, an idea of how to take the next steps. We must not be afraid to talk about difficult things, including in Europe, we must not be afraid to talk about solidarity when it comes to refugee issues, we must not be afraid to talk about the euro area. These are the challenges we need to talk about. You can't clog your ears and say we're not interested because we're here right now because we're getting off our knees. [[Voice from the room: What world do you live in?]] You would not want to know what kind of Member I live in. Other than you, other than you, normal. [[Couldn't you take care of agriculture, for example?]] I live in the real world, and you live in the virtual, the matrix you live in, the political matrix written on Żoliborz and Nowogrodzka. You're in another fairy tale, only you're in a fairy tale that ends in a year and a half. You're gonna go back to where you've been for the past few years, and we're gonna stay with all of this. [[Applause]] And I want to be very clear about that: we're gonna stay with all this... [[What a dream.]] ...and we're not running away from it because I think that's the responsibility, that's the subjectivity of a political party that wants to build a coalition, wants to win elections, wants to pursue its agenda. We'll do it, of course. I just want you to know that it's common. Foreign policy must be shared. She can't be dedicated to the game, because it's always gonna be bad for her. It must be written and implemented in a very clear way by successive governments, by successive ministers. I think it's up to us. Finally, I will quote Piłsudski again: we see a reality like this... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Do you mind Piłsudski?]] It's bothering Piłsudski, isn't it? It's bothering you, it's bothering you, I know. ...we see reality... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm not faking it. Do we want to talk about history? Come on in. [[There you go.]] Munich, right? ...we see reality as it is. There's no such person among you. And I don't want to tell you this, Minister, because I believe that you will have a reflection, a broad look, just the kind that will be a great challenge that you will take. But it's up to you, on your subjectivity, to believe that this is the time that this is the place. Just like in the '80s, when we were together and around each other. Different things have directed us to different places, but actually Poland is one and we all love it, we all want the best for it. [[Applause]] I believe that you want to, too, but free yourself from these shouts, from this pouting and from this crooked face, because that attitude doesn't lead to anything. I wish you good luck as former Foreign Minister, but today I have to file a request for this information not to be received. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u15	Thank you. Mr Piotr Appeal, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Security is indeed the most important thing. As to the fact that our participation in NATO is the key to our security, I don't think anyone has any doubts. The question is why, for the first time in many years, our defence funds are less than 2%. GDP, smaller than that required by NATO. Although they are little smaller, so far our very strong and determined position in NATO has been the result, among others. that we were exemplary in our duties as an ally. Unfortunately, in the last year, this obligation has been slightly neglected. These are serious matters. But beyond the expenditure on arms, security must also be political. Here we need very good contact with Washington - of course - with London, perhaps even Budapest, but also with Berlin, Paris and Brussels. It is important that we have the best relationship with all Western players, the simplest and most communicative contact possible. First of all, let us not be offended or offended, but take care of our interests. Let us not talk about words, but care for our interests that we have to deal with these countries. This is crucial in the implementation of foreign policy. Polish institutes, Mickiewicz Institute, as well as the Polish National Foundation should take care of our good name. It should be their duty. It is the minister's moral duty to ensure that these institutes work in our favor, that the minister takes responsibility for these institutions working in our favor, in our image, in our influence abroad. The last point is economic security. There are many agreements that are signed by the European Commission with third countries. There was an agreement with Canada, now a new agreement is being negotiated with Mercosur countries. What is Poland's participation in these negotiations? Will we wake up again, as declared by the Government of Law and Justice, forced to support such harmful agreements as CETA? How are we involved in the negotiations? How do we influence these agreements? Let us focus on actual activity, effective activity in the international arena, and let us leave some things to others. I know you're about to say, "Well, yeah, 2%." GDP is a matter of the Minister of Defence, international agreements is a matter of the Minister of Finance, institutes is a matter of the Ministry of Culture. Only how can we talk about effective foreign policy if we are unable to control our own government policy? If the entire government does not cooperate with the Minister and gives him tools for foreign policy, there is no question of effective foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u17	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I must say that you were greatly harmed by President Jarosław Kaczyński when he called you an experiment. The problem is that it completely limited your ability as a diplomat. Worse, after today's exposé, I come to the conclusion that this experiment is completely unsuccessful. I would like to outline the context in which you exercise your office. Unfortunately, you have a New Zealand foreign policy, and this foreign policy is just a stubble. [[Applause]] [[Competition for invectives.]] Poland had the chance to be a quarterback within the European Union, one of the most important players, instead we are the biggest problem of the European Union, we are a country for which art applies for the first time in history. 7 European treaties. It's a shame and a disgrace. It is sad that the various international institutions feel the same way: the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, the UN Human Rights Council, the OSCE, various international NGOs. Your White Paper has become an object of ridicule, very energetic and decisive reactions of the heads of other governments who feel outraged by comparing what you are doing with the law in Poland to the rights of other countries. It's a lack of integrity, just cheap and low propaganda. I think that's what Frans Timmermans thinks. We heard it in his speech yesterday. If the PiS says it's some kind of conspiracy and misunderstanding, then you're living in some parallel, alternate reality. It reminds me of the title of Stanley Kubrick's movie, Eyes Wide Closed. That's pretty much how you see international reality. What did we hear in your exposé? The image of the European Union as an undemocratic institution, where the stronger rule the weaker, which is plunged into total chaos and crisis. To be honest, that sounds like the beginning of polexit. If at this point we look at your policy of the last two and a half years, we have a clear situation that this is not populism. You're really going for polexit. I will tell you more, mentally PiS is long gone from the European Union. [[Applause]] President Andrzej Duda also fits very well into this policy. His words about the partitions in relation to the European Union, in fact, also announce the same direction - polexit. Unfortunately for you, the support for the European Union in Polish society is still extremely high. 87% Poles support the European Union. Despite what you're doing, despite the sting, disgusting the European Union - 87%. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles will not be pushed away from the European Union, they will not be pushed away from Europe. [[Applause]] Let's sum up your foreign policy as a whole. Where are we and where are you going? What kind of allies do you have after these two years? United States. I wonder who President Andrzej Duda will meet on his next trip. Not with the president or the vice president of the United States. You say that transatlantic relations are the basis of our security. Then why are you ruining it so effectively? You are talking about Poland as the leader of the region. The problem is, when our partners hear it, they blink at best. They treat all these relations only as an issue of infrastructure matters, as well as the Tri-Moor or the Intermoor. In the Visegrad Group you can only count on Orbán and Hungary. And in the end it may turn out that he will turn away from you when there is a challenge. Eastern Partnership. Poland is no longer a reference point, and New Zealand's relations with Ukraine are dominated by a very bad historical policy. By historical policy you are destroying our relations with other countries, Ukraine is just one example. You reject Giedroycia's doctrine, but you offer nothing in return. As a matter of fact, you don't have any ideas for Eastern politics. The Weimar Triangle - it doesn't exist. The coalition for cohesion policy, which you should create in connection with the European Union's new budgetary perspective, does not exist. You say that you do not agree to link European funds with the rule of law research, with compliance with the rule of law. What are you afraid of? What are you ashamed of? Is that an element of remorse? You scare the Germans with reparations the day after Angela Merkel left. The words didn't come out there, and here you're scaring people with reparations. This is a typical example of how you practice foreign policy - for the internal market. You do not practice foreign policy to build a security position, a position of alliances for Poland, just to play internal affairs. [[Applause]] Israel? It's better not to say. And I particularly recommend silence to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. One more thing he'll say about culpritism and eventually put our relationship in jeopardy. We've had the biggest crisis in decades, and at the same time, your staff policy after 2.5 years means we don't have an ambassador - in the midst of the biggest international crisis. Relations with Russia? They should be great. Acting for the disintegration of the European Union, you act as a useful idiot to Putin. [[Applause]] Maybe Russia will give you the wreckage as a reward. I understand that's the point. It's just interesting that your exposé says that Russia is our biggest threat, and at the same time we do everything in our power to act in its favor. Because New Zealand foreign policy is just like that. Incompetent, unaware, without purpose and direction, meaningless, only dramatically dangerous for Poles, Poles and Poland. It reminds me of Wojciech Młynarski's poem, if you'll excuse me, but it's a quote: 'Because one thought is on their mind, which I'm going to summarize: 'What else to screw up here, gentlemen? What else would it Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u19	Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My previous speakers were talking about a failed experiment. In fact, President Kaczyński did not succeed in this experiment. But it's not your fault, Minister, because you're not the wizard of this policy, and someone can always jump out, one with another, and at the most crucial moment, let's say diplomatically, they'll put in a comment or say the wrong words that will conflict us with the whole world. I didn't think we'd miss the banging of Prime Minister Szydło from that speaker too soon. She came, screamed, but somehow it was. And now I'm talking shit behind my back. Where the Prime Minister doesn't speak in those 100 days of the new government, it's a screw-up. Either you mistranslate and blame the Germans for the murders in Katyn, or you will go and give me no idea what, but certainly not giving the historical truth, you will commemorate the Holy Cross Brigade and pay tribute to it. This is the classic number of mistakes you make in international politics, which is unlikely especially in these recent times. Churchill said a diplomat was a man who would think twice before saying anything. You guys are talking about what's gonna happen to you, without thinking, all the time. Gafa behind the muzzle. [[Applause]] And you are not acting in the interests of Poland. This is not in the interest of Poland. It's just a matter of wondering if you're doing this out of inability or premeditated. I'd like to believe that for the first reason, because at least that gives some excuse. The Poles don't expect you to point out your enemies, they expect you to look for friends. Poles expect you to strengthen alliances, not weaken them and destroy what has been developed for many years. Poles want to feel as a nation a safe, peaceful, seeking and seeking to strengthen alliances and make friends - not constantly pointing out enemies and pointing out the mistakes of others, never seeing mistakes on their side. You're talking about safety. In fact, this is the most important thing and it should bring us all together. But knowledge and awareness is not just a definition of national security doesn't make it safe. According to the report by the Pułaski Foundation, 37% consider NATO the greatest security guarantor, and rightly so. Fortunately, you didn't lead to some kind of disaster here. But if Minister Macierewicz were even more than 2, 3, 4 months longer, then who knows how it would end. That's not the case with the United States. This is the second indication according to this report, 23% of our compatriots indicate that the United States is the guarantor of security. Plus, this cold hasn't been here since the end of the Cold War. Only this one did not result from the fact that the Polish nation had such an attitude towards the United States - it resulted from the situation after World War II. Freezing contacts at high levels, threatened military cooperation, inability to run even administration and transfer notes. No diplomatic shield for the IPN Act. Because it is not that someone is opposed to protecting the good name of Poland, it is that the bill was unprepared, undisputed, without diplomatic protection. [[Applause]] And what will happen when solutions are adopted for the entry into force of the Supreme Court? The Minister knows very well what holiness the Supreme Court of the United States is. If there is a declaration and maybe a resolution of Congress on this matter, will it be a better relationship between Poland and the United States, a guarantee of security? [[Applause]] Another guarantor, according to our fellow countrymen, is the European Union - this is what 22% points out. So what? Where did the White Book of Moravians go? The white book of Morawiecki was placed on a shelf with fantasy literature in Brussels and will be there by now. [[Applause]] A Green Paper is needed with boundaries and opportunities for compromise and negotiation. [[Applause]] [[With the clover.]] Keep looking - better - solutions. We are able to help you with this, only that you do not want an agreement here in Poland, nor do you seek an agreement in the European Union or in the world. In my opinion, in many cases, you are simply not capable of it because you have no respect for anyone. Don't expect - and you can't count on it - respect from the other side. You often say that smooth words don't count, only hard business matters. So, what kind of business have you guys been doing over the last two years? Maybe you blocked Nord Stream 2? Maybe you've won more rights for the Polish minority in Germany? Maybe you've tamed the Ukrainian nationalists. [[The wreck has been brought in.]] Maybe you negotiated better conditions for posted workers under the new directive? Or did you take care to raise agricultural subsidies to the highest level in Europe? [[Applause]] You have not even secured the interests of Polish citizens living in the UK. That's what Tusk had to fight for, so those conditions would be the best. [[Applause]] Alliances. You don't do this kind of business, and you don't care about it, because you can't make permanent alliances, because you see enemies everywhere. Who do the Poles point to as the greatest ally? United States. That's what we've been talking about. The horse as it is, everyone can see. Who's in second place? Germany. Sometimes you soften your position, e.g. The Minister states that Poland does not make hard demands and does not consider the issue of German reparations to be a ballast in mutual relations. So what's it like with these reparations? Do you want these reparations or don't you want them? What's the truth? Those fairy tales you're telling on government television, or the fact that you didn't go into bilateral meetings with Chancellor Merkel on this case? When are you telling the truth? [[Applause]] In Poland you are fighting like jets, and abroad you are calm as gliders. [[Applause]] That's your proposal to deal with hard cases. Now you want to name yourself a lawyer for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Only they do not ask for such an attorney, because today Poland is rather associated not with a lawyer, not with a lawyer, but with a prosecutor and prosecutor, who accuses everyone and everywhere of failure. You get the impression that diplomacy without cannons is like music without an instrument. Instead of firing one drip after another, arm yourselves with ammo from the arguments, because it's already been good, now it's just gonna be harder. You're going to war with everyone. Remember one thing and let the Poles remember this: Kings go to war - you can say: lords go to war because you are a party of masters, you are so proud of yourselves. [[Applause]] - and men die in the war. For your incompetence, your diplomatic wars will be paid by our people. We will not allow this, but this change is only possible in one case: changing the outcome of elections; not the resolution in the European Parliament, not the decisions of the European Commission, but the winning elections here in Poland, and changing the direction of foreign policy - to Poland seeking friends, not pointing out enemies. [[Applause]] We're gonna do this, but before that, we're gonna ask for the rejection of information that's just not true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u21	Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 12 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to some of the selected issues, because the challenges and omissions of Polish diplomacy are too extensive to say about all issues in such a short time. Ladies and gentlemen! After many assurances that cooperation within the Visegrad Group is strict, there are still no joint votes of the group's countries within the European Union on very important issues. Poland is currently losing extremely important negotiations on the Posting of Workers Directive. Our transport and construction companies will suffer greatly. Polish employees, Polish companies are already losing a lot, and in the future it will be billions of zlotys. There was no full solidarity within the Visegrad Group and the effectiveness of Polish diplomacy in this very important field. It seems our diplomats still haven't built it. coalition in defence of Polish service companies despite the fact that in the final vote many countries were not satisfied with it. I must point out here that there is a deadline for economic diplomacy. Many international visits, which we see now around the President, around the Minister, are built up by the economy, but this is just the beginning of economic diplomacy and it seems that our diplomats should still build a coalition in defence of Polish service companies despite the fact that we are losing many of them in final votes today, but in the future we should pay attention to it. It was similar in so-called cases. the cadmium directive, which will cause major problems for our chemical industry, for fertilisers and for other important elements of our economy. Despite far-reaching commitments between the V4 countries, we are also losing on fisheries and energy. There has been no cooperation mechanism at all diplomatic levels in the last two years, joint representation of positions on important political and economic issues. The economy is also part of state security. By losing the vote on important matters, we also undermine our security. The Visegrad Group should operate not only in the four capitals of this group, but above all in Brussels, Berlin and Washington, as well as in other important capitals of our region. We remember Poland's loneliness and the result of the vote on the election of the Head of the Council of the European Union. We are losing important political votes. Today, the Visegrad Group is more active in the area of political declarations. Minister, it is important that the Visegrad Group strengthens its cooperation, not just with momentum. Non-development of this project in the future can have very bad, harmful effects. A similar remark, although the proportions here are different, can be given when it comes to cooperation with the new US administration. I would like to recall the declarations made by President Donald Trump during the meetings with the American Polonia in Chicago regarding the visa waiver for Poles travelling to the United States. Today we are the only country of the Visegrad Group whose inhabitants must have entry visas for this country. Minister, is this case still strongly accentuated and raised during meetings with American diplomats? Even LOT has been involved in the promotion of visa waivers to the US, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not carried out enough action on this issue in the last two years to ensure that this issue is an important part of our relationship. It is not enough just to say that Poles do not know how to fill in applications, because it is not true. Next - no rapid reconstruction of the diplomatic network. A year ago, I was talking here, from this speaker, about the too slow pace of rebuilding diplomatic posts, especially consulates. The Civic Platform government shut down almost 30 institutions in total. After two years, we only recreated half of them. Millions of Poles abroad need consular services. We are waiting here, for example, for declarations, when, at what time these consulates will be recreated, what is the plan. We don't see it. Therefore, many of our compatriots have many problems abroad. During that time, the number of officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs increased. So we're dealing with a situation where we have fewer offices, and we have more officials. I hope so, and here I will focus on one more element... I'd like to talk about staff negligence here, because we've been hearing about the beginning of the exchange of diplomats and officials at the Ministry for two years. That's not what the facts say. Dozens of former SB co-workers, their colleagues and so-called. Resort children, graduates of Soviet schools still work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the last two years, only a few dozen new people have been introduced into 2 000. substantive staff and more than 2 000. all officials in the ministry. Minister, you don't need a specialty here. Please note that in the police, in the military there was political will to exchange people who are compromised, who were still taught in Soviet schools, which were from the service. And in those resorts it was possible to do so, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still the stable of Augias. The personal influence of the families of famous communist activists in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is increasing to the status of the symbol. Minister! I weigh my words and I think that even in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia we don't have any members of Stalin's family today, and look at it, and everyone from that time knows about it, which people from those families work at the Ministry today. And he doesn't go here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's only about our satisfaction, it's about historical justice and real justice, it's about the good work of our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u23	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u24	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, after hearing this first tour of speeches You may feel that we use two different languages. On the one hand, there is a specific language, the language of political realism and realism also in a methodological dimension, and on the other hand there is a narrative, which is an ideological narrative. Or else: after listening to the speech by both Mr Schetin and the president of the Modern Club, I am convinced that, in fact, the foundations and language of these two speeches were determined by what is referred to in the literature as postcolonial mentality. Indeed, the biggest, most serious accusations against Mr Czaputowicz are that foreign policy has been defined in a completely new way, that finally - and this is also the basic charge - Minister Czaputowicz, as before Minister Waszczykowski, has departed from the Taoist principle of wu wei, i.e. non-action, from the principle that ordered us to follow the main trend, the principle that ordered us not to stand out in any way, because any distinction, distinction from the mainstream may, so thought previous ministers, expose us to consequences. The previous speeches are, first of all, speeches with an incredible amount of concrete, real descriptions of facts, events, projects, plans, no, there are adjectives. Indeed, the right part of the parliament could have had faces crooked - I myself feel that my face was painted with grime - because in the speech of Mr Schetin, for example, but also of the president of the club, the modern invectives were invectives, not only adjectives, which were supposed to characterize actions, even presented in a curved mirror, present government, once again emphasized - the government of the Republic of Poland, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland. It is worth remembering this with the diligence that you have attributed to yourself. We are the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, is the government of the Republic of Poland, is the President of the Republic of Poland. Mr Marshal, and, above all, Minister, I would like to thank you, first of all, for having had the opportunity to listen to a speech that would be so good in terms of methodology. Thus, above all, it indicates the basic categories on which the foreign policy of the Republic is built and will be. Firstly, a sovereign understood as a sovereign who makes decisions, so in the representative system it is a parliament and it is a government. Thus, foreign policy in this dimension is to be a sovereign policy, i.e. an independent policy. Secondly, subjectivity. It's also a very important, important category. Well, unfortunately, I have to appeal to what you don't like, President Schetyna, which is history. It is just the turn of the 17th and 18th centuries that Poland from the international relations entity has become the subject of international relations. It is worth remembering in the House today that we are an actor, not an object, that you should not be a theoretical state, but a state that will defend these important, important values in this case. [[Applause]] Finally, the category is very important and important, i.e. the right state, the right state, and, above all, the pursuit of territorial integrity, the care for security in the external but also the internal dimension. It is also independence and sovereignty. These are categories that are important, important. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen - and I am pleased that the Minister has stressed this very strongly - forget what the political reality is always clearly talking about. You can belong to different structures, you can belong to different organizations, but they are just supposed to be an instrument of action in the external dimension, you can't become a fetish, you can't become something that really entangles us, which will limit our ability to act, which will result in undercutting this root, i.e. the subjectivity and what is most important, i.e. sovereignty, independence. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that this is also the first exposé after the exposé of Minister Waszczykowski, where the different dimensions of foreign policy are very clearly indicated. There are also those concerning our functioning in international organisations, from the European Union to Visegrad to the United Nations. All these structures are important to us, important to us, but they are to be a tool, to be an instrument. I am pleased that it has been very clearly outlined in this speech that foreign policy is a policy implemented under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also through other ministries, and it is the Ministry of National Defence, and it is an economic dimension, and it is an energy dimension, and it is finally in the historical dimension. Thank you very much for finally making it clear in this House that foreign policy, while implementing these guidelines and taking into account all these conditions, will support itself in the truth. I can't agree with my predecessors who thought we should sit in the corner and remain silent. I do not agree that we should tolerate accusations against the sovereign, against the nation, against Poles, for those actions for which Poles as a nation are not really responsible. That's worth emphasising. This presentation in this dimension is very important and important. Finally, I would like to thank you very clearly for the fact that our participation in the European Union should first of all be considered from the point of view of the article. 5, not Article. 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One thing you have actually succeeded in, because, against the background of Mrs Gosievska's speech and this false shackle: 8 years, 8 years - again just talking about what was going to be and not about what is going to be - indeed, Mr Chaputowicz's speech seemed to be quite balanced. The problem is that this diagnosis of international relations or relations with the European Union has nothing to do with how politics are conducted by law and justice. We all expected a new Prime Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, and a new Minister, Minister Chaputowicz. And that's what's gonna happen? That there would be a better translation of the law and justice government in Europe, a better relationship with the most important partners, because that's what you all promised. And it happened exactly the other way around. As far as translating the truth is concerned, no one still understands your point, and this white paper has become merely an object of mockery, but as far as relations with our most important partners are concerned, these relations have been made worse over the last 100 days and with the United States and Ukraine and with Israel, and unfortunately with most European countries, even though they - and this is where they really need to be thanked - continue to show great patience in wanting to talk to you. When the rations are fragile, the position becomes firm, said Stanisław Jerzy Lec, and this is proof of what you are doing in politics - full of false gestures, mistakes. And right now, in the European Union, everyone is already talking about the fact that it would be better for Prime Minister Morawiecki not to speak English. I myself value Minister Chaputowicz, we know each other from academic times. Too bad he's not here anymore, so he won't listen to our speeches. And I'm surprised he chose such bad company, and I'm surprised he decided to name himself such an incompetent politician and embarked on a mission that is doomed. You're asking for specifics, so let's talk about specifics, because, of course, there's a question of how effective your policy is. In European policy, because I want to talk about this, no concrete initiatives - not one specific initiative - have you presented. And it's sad that you can't bring up one idea that would be your own. Only defensive. And now let's look at the specific points of this policy. The rule of law. You can't explain your reasons in any way. We all know how the white book I've already mentioned was picked up. No one understands that. All you can do is irritate, and the procedure for art. The 7 that has been started is continuing and all this can unfortunately end very badly. The future of Europe. Chancellor Merkel came here to talk to you about this. So? You have no idea. The Minister says that the committee cannot be a supergovernment, the Minister, who knows about the European Union, repeats these songs which have nothing to do with the singing of Eurosceptics, have nothing to do with reality. What vision do you want in the European Union? Do you have any idea if you're playing a role when everyone's talking about it? You are by the way, without any idea of what Europe is going to look like, but you are talking about the fact that there is not going to be a two-speed Europe. We all agree, but what are you gonna do to make this bad script go away? You're gonna be telling dreams about the Intermarriage, all of which, even partners, are in the Intermarriage, just and exclusively embarrassing. Posted workers. I was on the subject. We were able to stop the wrong solutions. In my darkest dreams, I never dreamed that you'd be able to lose everything in this case, but absolutely lose everything, give everything back, throw in the towel. What was to be lost, you lost, even collective agreements you have included in the draft directive. Only one year of posted workers will be able to function. Eastern policy. You've completely abdicated. And Mrs Gosievska still has the audacity to talk about a triangle or a team, or whatever we call it, a Norman, in which we did not participate. If you're so strong, you'll get to him. Write it down. There's nothing you can do about Eastern policy. All our partners in the East regret that Poland has completely abdicated under the PiS rule. Energy policy. Decarbonisation, as it developed, took on only and only acceleration. Power mechanisms that were so important to you - what? - for five years only, and you only managed to save it. There will be a standard 550, which means that you will not be able to pay even one euro of the money we have negotiated for our coal industry. You've lost everything again. You have also lost the RES issue, even non-ETS, for those who know what I'm talking about, you have lost, the worst possible standard. We negotiated a huge head start here, supposed to be 0%. according to the worst-case scenario, and you negotiated minus 7. You lose everything in EU energy policy. Energy companies, on the other hand, have spent money on investments in mining and have nothing to invest in. And finally, listen up, budget. After all, this is going towards a total disaster - let's tell ourselves the truth - because the budget is likely to be linked to the rule of law and ends with the fact that we will all pay for this totally irresponsible policy of the rule of law and justice, because this money will simply be less for our farmers, for the local authorities, it will not be possible to implement these investments, which even Warsaw has planned, by you and by your completely irresponsible policy. And that's the problem, you guys can move your passwords, talk about positions. Notabene just texted me Krzysztof Lisek because you said that Donald Tusk got him a position, and he asks what position, because he was very happy, and unfortunately he didn't know anything about it. Therefore, you can only throw such comparisons, lies, and if you are accounted for in terms of energy policy, posted workers, budget, eastern policy, there is a failure for failure everywhere. And that's what we're gonna account for. [[Applause]] The Minister showed up, so once again I wanted to say that, as you know personally, I value you, I do not understand why you decided to company this type of policy with your name and work in such bad company. [[Don't insult us.]] Again at the end of Stanisław Jerzy Lec: Every actor should have something to say, even if he has a silent role. And I would like to wish the Minister to try - of course, you continue to maintain a diplomatic attitude - to speak courageously in this policy, try to change it, and I wish that this experiment really hurt Mr Kaczyński. I wish you well, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is being listened to by young people from the School Complex No. 1 Adam Mickiewicz in Krasnystaw. Welcome. Sorry, sir, just one more second, because you asked the Minister for the floor. Please, Minister Jacek Chaputowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for giving me the floor. I wanted to refer to the first part of the debate in which the representatives of the clubs presented their positions. I value the debate, and I am glad that it is conducted in a peaceful manner. There's a substantive argument. Surely some of the suggestions that are presented here are to be taken into account. I would like to say, in my exposé, that the institutions defined in the Constitution have an impact on foreign policy: the President, the Prime Minister, Parliament, and if Parliament is also important, then the voice of the opposition is also important. Thank you for presenting the position of the club by Małgorzata Gosievska and I will immediately address the statements of Mr Schetin and Mr Trzaskowski. It is not that I, as a person - thank you also for recognising my opposition activity - feel like a notary of politics, with which I disagree, is quite the opposite. I believe that the government of Mateusz Morawiecki conducts the right foreign policy, defends the interests of Poland in Europe and in the world, the Polish state right, deserves support. I'm in line with this policy, just like I am with the policy of the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] Regarding Mr Schetin's statement on a number of issues... First line. Security Council, common success, yes. It seems to me that I should, and I do, also appreciate the actions of my predecessors as Foreign Minister, of course my direct predecessor, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, but also Mr Grzegorz Schetin and previous Foreign Ministers. Some longer actions - their results are e.g. membership of the Security Council - were initiated earlier, successfully implemented by the coalition government. This also applies to certain activities relating to the North Atlantic Alliance, the modernisation of the Polish Armed Forces - yes, it must be seen and I do. With regard to the specific allegations made by Mr Schetin, it is difficult to agree with the allegation that we are pursuing a conflict policy with everyone. No, the goal of Poland is cooperation, but sometimes our interests differ, then if we defend Polish interests, as is the case with Poland's right to reform the judicial system, there is a conflict of interests and then there are some conflicts. The essence of diplomacy is conflict and resolution. Nor is it that Chancellor Merkel comes everywhere immediately and if she comes to Poland a few days after the appointment, we regard it as a recognition for the role of Poland in German politics. Besides, it's confirmed in a coalition agreement, in a government program. We are open, as I said, to make a proposal for cooperation here and to further develop it. We're members of the Weimar Triangle. The fact that there are no meetings in this formula -- it's about government representatives -- it's not our fault. I'll be visiting Paris soon, I have an invitation from Minister Le Drian, and we'll talk about it. Both Germany - I spoke with the German Foreign Minister - and Poland are ready to resume the initiative. Perhaps the first meeting should be held at the level of foreign ministers. We hope for a later meeting at the level of Heads of State, Heads of Government. When we conduct modern foreign policy, we can't get away from history. As we can see, in our dispute, e.g. With Israel, with Ukraine, history is part of the present. Therefore, I will not agree with the charge that Law and Justice focus on the past, but does not look to the future. No. For foreign policy to be properly pursued in the future, it must be rooted in the country's historical achievements. It's an asset... Our beautiful history of resistance during World War II against external aggression is our advantage and we must use it, and we certainly cannot agree to equalize us with the perpetrators, as it sometimes appears. The amendment of the IPN Act is intended to serve this purpose. I would like to remind the House: It is not that the opposition Members were against this law. Only later, after starting the discussion, it turns out that everyone had great ideas. Mr Grzegorz Schetyna referred to the work on the European Union budget. I believe that it is indeed a very important task for the Polish diplomacy to take an active part and fight for the best possible budgetary conditions, especially as regards cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Referring to Mr Piotr Apel's statement from Kukiz,15, I would like to remind you, or may I say it once again more clearly, that really Polish defence spending is 0.01 less than 2% GDP, but this only results from the fact that economic growth was greater than expected. If we were to consider this assumed economic growth as a starting point, then it would be 2%. In other words, it sounds like maybe paradoxically, but in this case too rapid economic development is, as a rule, interfering with the proper presentation of this issue. Of course, it's a detail, you have to explain it and not create any major problem with that fact. We also seek the interests of Polish farmers. In the European Union's negotiations with Mercosur, our representatives are active on this issue. This is not outside the scope of our current interests. Katarzyna Lubnauer referred to many threads... [[Madam President.]] Madam President, I'm sorry. I will certainly disagree with the argument that the Law and Justice Club, party or myself, mentally, is outside the European Union. If I say from this stand that we are for a strong, united European Union, then I am simply speaking the truth, but a Union that takes into account the interests of all countries, including the interests of Poland, a Union which is based on four freedoms, a Union which is based on competitiveness, a Union which takes into account the voice of citizens. This is a vision of the European Union. This does not mean that the implementation of this vision does not serve European integration. On the contrary, we believe that the European Union will only survive if it evolves, changes, reform, taking into account the views and voices of its citizens, and these voices are most fully expressed in direct elections to national parliaments. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz pointed out that the white book belongs to the scope of literature or fiction literature. That's not true. I participated in the presentation of a white paper accredited in Warsaw to ambassadors from European Union countries. An expert presentation took place last week in Brussels. Different issues are discussed and forwarded. In the White Paper, we show that the Polish reform system is part of what we understand in terms of European values, that these solutions, which exist here, also exist in other countries of the European Union. It is not that other countries are pointing out to us that some of the solutions are badly presented. We want to show that solutions adopted by the Polish Parliament, by the Sejm and the Senate, are present in other countries. As an example, I will give you a solution for choosing the National Judicial Council. A system has been applied in Poland that exists in Spain. With us 3/5, in Spain 2/3, that's the only difference. The essence of the indication is that in other countries of the European Union the National Judicial Council is elected by Parliament, which is why it is difficult for us to argue when we accept these solutions that they differ from this. [[But there's a constitution. Constitution, Minister.]] As far as I remember this part of the Constitution, it states that the way in which the National Judicial Council is elected is defined by the law, and that is how the law defines it. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish also raised the issue of reparations. Please do not make it a problem to reparate some field of conflict between Poland and Germany. During my foreign visit to Berlin in January this year, I spoke to the Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel. He himself said that the Germans are ready to examine this issue and agree to the work of the joint committee. I paid attention to this and asked my partner to look at it from our perspective. What's she like? Well, Germany has paid reparations and compensation, compensation to countries and citizens in Europe. The question to my partner was this: Do you think that what the Polish state has received and what the Polish citizens have received is proportional to the losses that we have suffered? That's the main question. I think this is the mode that this is a way of presenting this issue. After this discussion, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany agreed to take a look at this issue. We have permission here, please do not suggest here that this is a large area of conflict. As far as posted workers are concerned, Mr Rafał Trzaskowski spoke... Indeed, there are some discussions here. I think that a certain cooperation - we have one right of state, a Polish one - in the European Parliament, it was raised here, and in this House between the government side, the parliamentary majority and the opposition to foreign policy, is needed. We're different from other countries. How are we different from other countries? It is a political polarisation that is unprecedented in other European countries. As far as the opposition is concerned - I explain this to my partner Frans Timmermans - it is often not a problem with legal regulations as far as the article is concerned. 7. The problem is that the political process in Poland promotes denial of power, questioning. Of course, the opposition may vote in favour, may be against, may abstain... [[Really?]] Yes. And he can leave the room. This is the essence of democracy and this is how it happens. In Poland it pays to leave the room, to say that everything is illegal, that everything is wrong, that there is no mandate to... It's a creature. I think the main problem, too, is how to change these relationships so that the opposition takes into account the state's point of view. [[We agree, Minister.]] Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u29	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'll be honest with you, I'm a little disappointed that you haven't waited until the club appearances are over, because now I don't know if I'm supposed to be referring to the exposé or to your speech. [[It's true.]] There's a big difference between your exposé and this performance, so I don't know, I don't really know what's possibly what we're supposed to accept or not. However, there was a tradition that after the club's appearances there was a minister. It was a good tradition, and to be honest, I regret that the Minister decided to stop it, especially because I don't know why. But there may still be an opportunity for the Minister to be able to explain it to us. On the other hand, back to the subject and to what I heard in the exposé - in order to be clear - and not now, in the next speech: Minister, in order to be able to conduct international policy, you need to have room for manoeuvre. That's what my old diplomacy friend told me, and that's the truth. The question is, do we have room for manoeuvre? Is our foreign policy conducted in the way it is? In fact, for some time now, it gives us room to maneuver? Isn't it that right now all we can and must do is put out fires? And I don't mean just the IPN problem. The issue of the ongoing response, the extinguishing of fires, has become the daily activity of our foreign policy. We've got a lot of image problems. I'm not saying it's the MFA's fault to be clear, but we're talking about some facts. And the result is that I haven't seen a coherent line of our foreign policy in a long time. At the moment - of course I agree - these conflicts need to be calmed down, but I would like to hear how these conflicts will be calmed down. Unfortunately, I didn't hear about it in your exposé, but there was a little bit more in that next speech. It was not so long ago that Poland entered the Security Council with great triumph, of which we are all happy. Of course, the triumph was debatable, because for some reason it was going to be there, but the number of votes it had obtained was undoubtedly the achievement. Because it has to be objectively stated that we did not have to receive such a large number of votes. Here, congratulations to our diplomatic services that they were able to maintain it because it was an impressive line. But I haven't heard it, and I haven't actually heard it twice, because during the previous exposé it was actually known that we'd be on the Security Council, why we're going there. [[Applause]] I'm curious about it all the time. The Security Council is simply some kind of vehicle that we are supposed to use to achieve our goals and some values that we, as an international community, certainly accept as our own. Then the question is, why are we there? Other countries have a tight concept of being on the Security Council, and sometimes they use it very cynically - I do not say it in a negative sense, although it is difficult for cynicism to be positive - to promote its country to sell machine tools or anything. I don't know if we have an idea like this. Asia or Africa. When I observe the work of our UN mission, I don't see any new fireworks, I'll tell you more, I think it's like even a little slowing down this mission. We will be holding the Presidency of the Security Council soon, perhaps in May or June. I'd really like to know what we're gonna do with her except that we're gonna get really high on public television about it, and that's right, 'cause there's something to get high on. However, I would like to know how we will use this tool, how we will be able to leverage just our presence there for our interests. Minister! There is also a time when the Union budget will be considered. We have not really heard what the idea of fighting for this budget for Poland is. Unlike the total opposition, I realize that this budget must be smaller than it was, because there are also some objective facts, but less does not mean that from this smaller part we are to get less than we should. I would therefore like to know what we will be doing to fight for this budget. I would like to know how we will counter the fact that within the European Union these four freedoms, the freedoms that you have spoken of, some countries do not keep. I mean, of course, the fashionable France I have recently, which, like every socialist country, tends to supermarket, repeating after Macron, and from this only chooses those freedoms that are important to France, while those that are important to others, consider it irrelevant. How, then, will we be able to counteract this? How will we find support in the rest of the Union? Because unfortunately, we didn't do very well with posted workers, since even the Visegrad Group didn't particularly support it. So how do we want to change that? The NATO summit in Brussels is coming up, a key issue for our security. He'll be there for sure. President Trump will be here. I would remind you that during the presidential election in the United States, our diplomacy failed. Our diplomacy screwed up. Not only did she not predict who would win this election, but even as Trump's candidate met with Polonia, our embassy didn't know about it, she wasn't there, she didn't know who was organizing it, etc. And then this embassy was this embassy, I mean personal here, right... And now she's the smartest person in diplomatic affairs. Are we learning from this? Will it still be that President Trump is coming... Do we know why he's coming? How will we make up for the weaknesses we saw before? How are we going to change what unfortunately failed, that there are no Poles in NATO structures who are appointed there? [[Voice from the hall: But who failed? Who blew it? The piss failed.]] Please? Since a certain person who was supposed to be in Moscow, we have decided not to send - it is not about names, it is about rules at the moment - it clearly seems that for us positions in NATO - at least those elected or those which are the responsibility of the secretary - there is no. They are for Romanians, Czechs, Estonians, while for Poles I do not see. This is a clear punishment for not being able to get along, of course, with quotes, and I would very much like us to be able to make up for it. Here I remind you that there will be four commanders, two of which may be a little less important. My question: What are we going to do to make at least one of these headquarters within the new command structure in Poland? 'Cause it's gonna be in Romania again, 'cause Estonia isn't gonna be in Romania for understandable reasons. So the question is, what are we supposed to do? The same applies to the European Union. My question is this, Minister: Do we have a blockade for EU positions, of course those which are not subject to a certain chapter under the rules? Another problem, Minister - and I speak about it every time - is the issue of public diplomacy. This, in my opinion, is the weakest part of our diplomacy, of course, outside the staff, the weakest part of our diplomacy. We even proposed in our budgetary amendments that adequate resources for public diplomacy should be increased, because it is crucial. Unfortunately, Law and Justice did not consider it important, they did not support it. The government didn't support it either. The result is that, in the current situation, when we have mainly image problems, when we should pay particular attention to this image, we do not have the means to do so, and from your exposé it follows that we also have no idea how to counter it. We have two problems here. On the one hand, we have a problem with Russia, which believes that Poland does not exist. Yeah, we're transparent to her in the sense that we're not here, I've talked about it many times. This means that we should focus special measures on talking, not to the Kremlin, but to the Russians, to find a way to reach agreement with the Russian people, with the Russians. The Kremlin can be ignored because the Kremlin doesn't want to see us, so we don't need to see it either. On the other hand, we must help ourselves here with public diplomacy. The same applies to the West, widely understood, where without proper action, which will show influential people, will encourage influential people, people who shape public opinion to come to Poland... The whole program should be done. This was applied to a small extent when the crisis started with Israel - the Prime Minister invited a group of journalists to present his position to them. This is one of those methods that should be used massly, every day, and our specialists in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should think who in different countries is the person to be invited to work on in her country, etc. Unfortunately, public diplomacy lies with us and if we do not start intensive action, we will simply die. And my favorite thing, which is the outposts. Minister, I think we can all agree that the ambassador is the ambassador of the state, he cannot be the ambassador of the political party. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, we do. As I'm observing right now - as much as I'm watching, as my friends in the world are giving me information - ambassadors are acting in a completely incomprehensible way. I will say more: of course, this applies to embassies, and it also applies to consulates-general. Sometimes it is even said that the ambassadors are being blackmailed by the local Polish Gazeta clubs and do all this so that they do not expose themselves to these clubs. Just so we're clear, I support these clubs because it's their sacred right to act in their favor and in their way of thinking and to convince the institution to do what they want. But the role of ambassador or consul general is to do it is only to the extent to which it is in the interest of the whole Poland, Poles, in the Polish interest. It can't be that the ambassadors, fearing that any pressure wouldn't go on the line, so to speak, politics, the worldview line, anything, lock themselves in their own sauce. I don't know, one might ask how much we paid for a party at Carnegie Hall for a marshal I respect very much, she's not here, and if that's what it was worth to spend money on behalf of these clubs. But, well, women cost money, that's what you should say. It cannot be that the Polish Gazeta clubs decide who we honor and who we don't honor, although, with all due respect, they have the right to do so, the Polish Gazeta clubs of course have the right to have their position. This will often be in line with mine. Our facilities are thus limited to internal contacts, i.e. just between each other, and the result is that when a crisis comes, like for example. In connection with the IPN Act, the ambassadors have no one to talk to, because they don't know anyone on the spot, they only know the local heads of some clubs, they can't affect reality. This is a very serious mistake. I think it should be fixed as soon as possible. And the Foreign Office itself. Unfortunately, in quotes, the Ministry was plucked. Because please note that, as part of the Ministry policy and within this Ministry Poland, Mr Macierewicz took defence policy, Mr Szyszko took climate policy - it seems that he is more organized than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Katowice, Mr Glinski took cultural policy, the Senate of course took Polish funds, Mr Morawiecki - the policy to promote the economy, even the Ministry of Justice has taken away its and we do not have a policy coordination centre. That's the truth. I hope that the Minister will be able to bring it back. I'm counting on you to be able to get our representatives to attend Yale, Stanford University, not just with lectures. As far as I can tell, Mr. Szczerski was the only one who had a lecture at New York University. Moreover, what they were once proud of was missing - that we were able to present our interests in influential environments. I call for work on this and we expect results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is attended by a delegation of the Great Mongolian Chural who is visiting Poland for a study visit to social and social matters, as well as teachers and students of the uniformed class of the School and Educational Centres Complex in the Rock. Welcome, everyone. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I still want to treat you as a professional who has agreed to take this very difficult position because of the responsibility for the state. But in your situation, as far as the last two years of the rule of law and justice are concerned, I think it is now time to turn to St. Judy Tadeusz, patron of things that are hopeless, because this is a terrible situation. You're gonna work hard, and the minister who's gonna throw you the I.P.N. Act, and you're gonna have to put out a fire. [[Applause]] You'll work hard, and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will go to Munich, speak freely, and you must put out the fire again. You're gonna work hard, and you're gonna... I'm sorry, but the head of state is talking nonsense in Stone Mountain. This is happening again in international media. This situation is hopeless. Unfortunately, it is, it's hopeless. All this shows that law and justice have not pursued foreign policy since these two years. Everything he does is subject to internal policy, but unfortunately we see the consequences of it in international policy. The importance, unfortunately, of Jarosław Kaczyński, PiS, to international policy, also shows your nomination. I respect you very much for your knowledge and competence, I do respect you, and you, as a professional, are well aware of the political importance you have in the camp of Law and Justice. You have a difficult task because you have to take responsibility for something that you don't exactly associate with. The relationship of Law and Justice and Jarosław Kaczyński to foreign policy shows that during your speech, the head of the governing party was not present in the Polish parliament, and there was a third of the club Law and Justice. This is an outrage. Yeah, it's outrageous, it's outrageous. There's a president present, you're holding a debate with a marshal, and there's no party leader here. And in fact, I felt so sorry for you so much in human terms that you had to read something that I don't think is your idea, that's not your value. You spoke a lot about the European Union. You said you wanted a strong Poland in Europe. I agree, in principle, with this view, but I would like you to convince the politicians of Law and Justice to a few basic principles. Firstly, Poland is a member of the European Union and the European Union is not the enemy It is not something separate, but we are now in the European Union. The first point, the Poles themselves elected the European Union in 2003 in a referendum, sovereign. Secondly, they agreed to the Article Treaty. 2, i.e. with values such as the rule of law and democracy. Thirdly, the European Union is these values, but also the security and development of Poland, and not only the four freedoms you spoke of. Fourthly, Poland is a member of the European Union and co-creates the European institutions, including the European Commission and the European Parliament. Minister, we have members in the European Parliament, even those who embarrass us, for whom we are ashamed, like Mr Czarnecki, but they are elected in Poland. Fifthly, the principles of the European Union, if we have agreed to them, must be strictly respected. If a country violates these rules, it should be subject to consequences. Unfortunately, the policy of the Government of Law and Justice - I am not talking about the time when you were already in office - has led Poland to be covered by the article. 7th European Treaty. You have talked about a Europe closer to citizens, but you have proposed strengthening national states, not increasing the mandate of the European institutions. Experience tells us that much closer to citizens, much more solidarity is a Europe that strengthens the Community method and not an intergovernmental method. The best example is sanctions against Russia. What you have proposed, namely to strengthen only the European Parliaments and not to increase the mandate of the institutions, is a return to the concert of powers. This is lethal from the point of view of Poland. [[Applause]] You have said that you want a strong European Union, and you are proposing regional alternatives that are not meant to support the European Union, but are intended to be against the European Union. What are the common interests of the countries of Central Europe where Poland is to be led by Poland, which Poland is to pursue? About the proposal to build the South Stream pipeline, about the nuclear power plant that Putin and he wants to build Orbán, or about the fact that individual countries are already joining the euro area? There are no common interests here, as you can see clearly. They do not want Poland to represent these interests at all. In fact, thanking Viktor Orbán for his support in breaking the rules of the European Union, you have shown that the masks of law and justice politicians are dropping. I guarantee you, Minister, once again, you will hear support from Viktor Orbán immediately after the opening match of this year's World Cup, you will see. What is Poland's response to the article anyway? Seven? There is no question that Poland will return to the path of the rule of law, but the White Paper has been sent. I do not know whether the Minister has read it or whether the Minister is signing it, because in my opinion, what it says is simply humiliating. [[It's insulting.]] If serious people who know the rule of law write about decommunization of justice when the average age of Polish judges is 39 years, it is insulting the intelligence of those people who are our partners. [[Applause]] I expect the Polish government and the Polish parliament to return to the path of the rule of law. As a citizen of Poland, a citizen of the European Union, I expect the European institution to consistently uphold the principles. You also said, it was a big part, as you imagine a strong Europe. I feel like it was a reality whisper. You have said that you are opposed to a lot of speed in Europe. Minister, I think you can see what reality looks like. Already some countries are in the euro area, we are already dealing with a Europe of many speeds. It's gonna get worse. [[Central Europe is already in euro.]] You will not stop the process of deeper integration of countries that belong to the euro area. Therefore, I ask: What is Poland's position on the adoption of the euro area, i.e. the fulfilment of the treaty obligations which Poland accepted in 2003, and is there any work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this subject? What you have presented when it comes to the European Union is not strengthening, it is disintegration of the European Union, it is dissuade Poles from the Union. And I'm not saying that you're doing this, but your principal, Jarosław Kaczyński, is doing it cynically. You want to get Poland out of the European Union. You also talked a lot about very good relations with the United States, but if it's so good, why are you sending Minister Magierowski to the United States? I'll tell you why you're sending it: to put out a fire, to put out a fire in connection with the IPN Act. And you knew that this fire would explode in connection with this bill, because you and Minister Waszczykowski opposed this bill, but there was not enough political power to stop it. And today there is no political power to convince the parliamentary majority to withdraw from these records. So... But this is just a fire, and as we recall Obama's statements, State Department or Senator McCain, it's a chill we've had for a long time. You didn't make any proposals for repairs in your speech. I therefore ask: When will President Andrzej Duda visit the United States or President Trump visit? When will you meet with the high representatives of Prime Minister Morawiecki and when will you be in the United States? Eastern Partnership. I agree with you, of course, that this is a very important issue, that we must support the democratic aspirations of Ukraine, but what is the reality. Please tell us in which formats recent meetings between representatives of Poland and Ukraine took place. We are clearly dealing with the freezing of these relationships. You have placed a national interest, that is, attracting Ukraine to the West, on the weight of ours, on your intra-political interests. And I'm saying it today with full responsibility. If President Lech Kaczyński were alive, he wouldn't have let that happen. And Mrs Gosievska reacts strongly. You know that. [[Voice from the room: No, she doesn't know.]] If anyone doesn't believe it, why don't you go through the archives of the President's Chancellery, what it looked like to organize the 65th anniversary of the war crime. Look what it looked like back then. [[Applause]] We should all want foreign policy to be a tool of state policy, which makes Poland rich, safe and respected in the world, and not treat complexes and serve the realization of intra-party interests. The realization of this business today is a strong Poland in Europe. Our interest is Poland in Europe, but in the core of Europe, in the very centre of the European Union, at the first speed that you oppose. We need to discuss when to enter the euro area. We must enter the euro area, we must sit at the table at which we are discussing the reform of the European Union. Poland is a strong one, which also participates, strengthens Polish-Euro-Atlantic cooperation, which can talk to the United States. Poland, the Polish national interest is also such as to value sensitivity higher than complexes in conversation with our partners, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also in the East. Only such Poland is able to carry out its interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u34	One second, Mr. Marshal, give me a second.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u35	No, time's up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u36	I'm filing a motion to reject the government's information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u37	Okay. Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we are talking about Polish foreign policy, then we must be aware that this was the case with the history of our country, of which the Minister also mentioned today, that for mistakes in foreign policy our nation was paying with blood, our nation was paying with suffering. That's why if we're talking about foreign policy today, we're talking about it because we live in this time, not another time, and not another place on the globe. This policy is not only a matter for diplomats, it is not only an interesting intellectual academic experience, but it is also a fundamental thing for the life and safety of Poles. You said today that your policy is so based on history. I just ask myself, " Why do you take the worst from this story and not the best from this story? Because today, if we look at Polish politics, it gives us the creeps because we remember 1939. There were also beautiful speeches by the Foreign Minister from that bleacher I stand on today. He said that Poland does not know peace at all costs, that the button from the uniform will not be returned. And then the country crashed like a house of cards in a month. The Poles paid with blood and paid with enormous suffering for unreasonable foreign policy, for the unreasonable security policy of their leaders, who later, when it came to it, fled to Romania, including the chief general. But before that, there was a lot of patriotic fanfare. Strong, tight and ready. Not strong, not short, not ready. Today, Minister, the most important things of Polish foreign policy, which have brought incredible success of the last 25 years, incredible success, given the Polish history... Poland has never been as safe or as rich in the memory of generations as it is today. And we reached this state because different governments, different from each other, took care of the foundations, our place in the structures of the West. [[Applause]] That's the first thing. Reconciliation with the Ukrainian people - the second thing. Reconciliation with the Jewish people - the third thing. [[Applause]] In all these cases, you're hitting these foundations. You can't handle it. Your exposé was today, Minister, not an exposé about Polish foreign policy, but an exposé alongside Polish foreign policy. [[Applause]] That's why I'm not going to talk to him. There was an exposé, but we did not really know the answer to the fundamental question that people are asking at home today: What are you going to do about the crisis in relations with Israel, what are you going to do with the crisis in relations with the European Union, with the United States, what are you going to do with our place in Europe? What are you gonna do about it? We didn't know the answer to any of these questions. One can say that the bravest thesis you have formulated, Minister, in your exposé, was that the former Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydło, is proof of the strong participation of French culture in Poland. [[Applause]] Thesis quite daring. You have a right to her, of course. However, I would like to say this: if we are talking about history and talking about the future, then we will be able to guarantee Polish security and a good place for Poles and Poles in Europe, as your government will leave. And only then will it be possible. You spoke of the Great Emigration today, so in this context I will remind you of what Count Czartoryski had carved at the headquarters of Hôtel Lambert, where Polish emigration was looking for its future. There were significant words: Ce jour viendra - this day will come. The day of your fall will come and it will be the day of Poland's success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u39	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Referring to the information presented by you about the tasks of Polish policy in 2018, I would like to raise the issue of a very important element of this policy: Polish-German relations. Polish foreign policy in relations with Germany in 2018 received new opportunities, which are mainly due to a new opening in both countries' policies. In Poland, after a long process of reconstruction of the government, Mateusz Morawiecki became Prime Minister, and in Germany long and difficult talks, lasting many months, resulted in the establishment of the fourth government of Angela Merkel. As a politician with many years of experience observing close Polish-German relations, I believe that the newly appointed government is a key element of my new opening. This is because it is the Germans who open up to Poland and reach out to us with a helping hand. Just look at the German coalition agreement between CDU/CSU and SPD to find out. In the German coalition agreement Poland was very highly located. That's a very good signal. The coalition partners in Germany have agreed that - I quote - the Polish-German partnership is of particular importance to them. The foundation of this partnership is the Polish-German reconciliation and shared responsibility for Europe. The coalition partners stress that they want to expand their cooperation with Poland, assigning great importance to the dialogue between communities. Moreover, coalitionists declare their willingness to develop cooperation within the Weimar Triangle. End of quote. The new government not only declares its willingness to cooperate deeply with Poland, but also implements it in practice, as evidenced last week's visit by German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas in Poland - only 2 days after the new government was established. Poland was the second country to visit Heiko Maas, just after France. It must be admitted that this is a very optimistic accent for the coming months, as well as the German Chancellor's Monday visit to Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen! Germany still wants to be very open to Poland despite not the best foreign policy of the Polish government, especially in the last 2 years. Good relations with Poland despite so many issues on the Polish line - the European Union is a great benefit for Germany, because the importance and importance of mutual economic relations and the linking of our communities are deeply rooted in both nations. Fortunately, it is not possible to destroy these economic and social ties even through a two-year bad and unreasonable foreign policy. The Germans reach out to us, which gives us the opportunity to correct the image losses that our country has suffered recently. Failure to take advantage of this opportunity would be unreasonable from the point of view of Polish interests, which the Polish government so often speaks about. We should be glad that foreign policy towards Poland is such a high priority for the Angela Merkel government. We need this very much because we need Germany's help so that our country can continue to grow rapidly. I'm also talking about it because I know that good times don't last forever. Poland needs a strong economic basis and Germany as one of the most powerful economies in the world can help us achieve stable economic growth. We must bear this in mind, for example, in view of the new EU budget. Good cooperation with Germany will help us take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new budget of the European Union. This is the last opportunity for Poland to benefit from such a large financial envelope. As a representative of the German minority in the Polish Parliament, Minister, I would like to declare my willingness to cooperate, especially in this area, for example through my participation in the parliamentary Polish-German group - I look towards the President. I think that the activation of our work can also contribute to your government's support, Minister, in addressing even these difficult topics, and only conversation, but discussion can explain a lot of things. Besides, the Minister himself spoke about it in his speech. So that I declare my willingness to cooperate here. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that before the Minister spoke to me, one of the Members of the Polish Parliament approached me and asked me whether the Polish-German relations were really warming up. I told him that I wanted to and that warming was very much up to us. Therefore, I would like to use here, ladies and gentlemen, the voice, the words of Archbishop. Senior Alfonso Nossol. I think many of you know and remember the archbishop who once said that reconciliation between Poles and Germans is a miracle. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's a miracle, but we just have to make sure that this work of many years, I would say, of such intricate work, based also on hard work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] cruel wars, he was not destroyed, but he was an example of good, exemplary neighborhood cooperation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Kloc, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and, above all, address issues related to EU policy. Firstly, I would like to point out that Poland favours a strong European Union, but opposes the European Union at many speeds. It was the Minister who told us very clearly. After all, Poland depends on the success and strength of the European Union, but the necessary condition for achieving a strong vision The Union is united. This is the general idea of the European project. We see the shortcomings of the Union, but at the same time we see that the balance of membership is generally beneficial. As Law and Justice, we have always been sceptical of the concept of a hard core of the Union of two speeds or small Unions, although closer cooperation in different formats and areas is possible and desirable, but this must not jeopardise the integrity of Schengen, the single market and the European Union as a whole. I hope... We heard this from chancellor Angela Merkel, who, during her last visit to Poland, emphasized that she also cared about the future of the 27 countries of the European Union, not just the euro area or any other group. In the face of global challenges, the strength, scale and strong voice of the European Union as a whole are important. The European Union of many speeds is a Union that will not be able to be strong outside. This can at the same time be a very big barrier to the development of our homelands and the Union itself, because only an indivisible, lasting Union and unity guarantee the development and resolution of problems for the benefit of our citizens, and we have a lot of these problems in the European Union: security, position in global trade, protection of our common social model, global competitiveness. None of these problems can be solved by dividing. A divided Union is a smaller scale of impact on the environment. I would like to stress very strongly that solidarity and mutual responsibility of the Member States must be the basis for our joint action in the European Union. This is essential for the success of the integration process across Europe. Another thing: there should be no place in the Union to dominate the strongest players. We believe that all Member States are equal and should equally be taken into account in political decisions. The shape and future of the Union should be decided by all Member States in agreement and consensus, taking into account the well-being of our citizens. Of course, we believe that this should be under the aegis - including the whole reform of the European Union - of the European Council. The second very important thing is that national Parliaments have a greater role to play. If we want to restore citizens' confidence in the Union, to the European project, if we want to strengthen democratic legitimacy, then we must strengthen national oversight of legislative and political processes and thus strengthen the role of national parliaments. We also talk about this very often in our committee forums in the European Union, and here it is in a kind of consensus. It seems that the citizens of the European Union have more confidence in their own parliaments and are looking at the foundations of democratic legitimacy there, and any ideas for strengthening the European Parliament will certainly not resolve the doubts about the democratic deficit. Here we could also talk about the yellow card, the red card, the green card, the European Commission's decision-making even against citizens' will and the failure of national parliaments. I believe that the European Commission must absolutely not ignore the votes of national parliaments. I would therefore like to stress that the Law and Justice are in favour of the reform of the Union, politically and institutionally in favour of the central role of the governments of the Member States, including the leading role of the European Council, and the value of national parliaments. In economic terms, however, we are the leader in the completion of the single market, including the digital market, creating coalitions against protectionist tendencies. On the external side, we are in favour of restoring the importance of enlargement policy and a strategic approach to the transatlantic alliance, an increased Union activity in both sides of the neighbourhood. We are opposed to all populist, protectionist actions that are in fact a threat to the common market. Of course, we also have a very important topic ahead of us, i.e. a debate on the multiannual financial framework and its preparation. We'll be hosting Mr. Oettinger, the Commissioner for Budgets on Monday. We will talk to him at the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs. Tomorrow, as a committee, we are putting forward a resolution initiative on cohesion policy, which is an important element of the common market. In general, the EU budget cannot be modified without modifying other market elements, which is why we stress above all that cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy is directly enshrined in the Treaties and we really do not need any scares. That's what we have in the treaties. It also brings tangible benefits to other Member States: it is calculated how many individual countries receive back to their budget with 1 euro. Of course, there will also be a need to fill the budget gap due to the UK's exit from the EU. We propose and agree to those voices which propose an increase in contributions, but, of course, it must also be a proportional increase. Agricultural policy, a very important topic for us. It is important here that the funds of the two pillars of the common agricultural policy are properly distributed and that the rate of direct payments is equal. Poland looks forward to fully aligning direct payments as soon as possible and ensuring a fair common agricultural policy. The last important element that we are still living is migration policy. In the area of migration - Poland emphasizes this from the beginning - the most effective tools are those that reduce the causes of migration. I have spoken of this on several occasions in various bodies in the European Union. Poland actively supports aid measures for refugees, as Angela Merkel saw and stressed, who appreciated Poland's participation in the reception of refugees. After all, we accept refugees from the east, from across the border, not to mention those who have received visas in the last two years, i.e. 2.6 million citizens. 35,000. - so we estimate the number of refugees from conflict areas in Ukraine. Therefore, Poland's contribution to stabilising the current migration situation is very large. We stress one more thing: we believe that migration can be a source of economic growth and sustainable development, but on one condition: they are a free choice of migrants and their host countries, of course, through the legal channels that are destined to do so. [[Applause]] I will also stress this very strongly once again and we will stress that Poland and Law and Justice oppose any mandatory automatic distribution mechanisms in the framework of the planned reform of the Common European Asylum System. Finally, I would like to share my personal thought, actually not my own, but John Paul II's thought about the European Union, which spoke about the vision of Europe as a guide to world civilization. He emphasized that in order for her to earn that name again, she must be faithful to her wonderful humanistic tradition, which she drew from Christianity and remained open to religious inspiration. In the European act, it was in Santiago de Compostela in November 1982. John Paul II cried out: Old Europo, find yourself, be yourself, discover your origins, breathe life into your roots. You can still be the lighthouse of civilization and stimulate the progress of the world. Ladies and gentlemen! Today Europe is drifting in the opposite direction, unfortunately. But I believe that the Government of Law and Justice - I would like to say - that Poland will help Europe to become a new leader of world civilization, to return to its roots, to become this beacon of civilization. I don't think you're going anywhere without it. Otherwise, if we don't get back to the roots, we're gonna have problems all the time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There is probably no more clear evidence of the bankruptcy of PiS foreign policy than the fall of Polish Eastern policy. The East needs to be assessed in concrete terms and the East needs to be realistic. Today there is no Polish Eastern policy. For 28 years it has been our pride and Polish brand in Europe, the fruit of the cross-party compromise of the entire Polish political class. As a result, Poland has successfully won the position of ambassador of our eastern neighbours in Europe and leader of European Eastern policy. This policy was based on a simple rule: the more Poland means in Eastern politics, the more it means in the European Union. Conversely, our strong position in the European Union makes us attractive to our eastern neighbours. This was the case for 28 years, on this assumption a great cross-party compromise was built for Eastern policy. Thanks to this agreement it was possible for Poland to initiate the Eastern Partnership, the first official policy of the Eastern European Union, thanks to which today three countries: Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova are associated with the European Union and their citizens benefit from the benefits of visa-free travel. All this has been achieved through this principle and through this great compromise over the party divisions in Eastern politics. Unfortunately, two years ago, the insane idea of liberation from the colonial dependence on Europe - we heard about it today from this speaker - caused the dismantling of Eastern policy to begin with the attack on the Eastern Partnership. That's when we heard two years ago that the Eastern Partnership was a German project and that it had to be replaced by a new Eastern Policy initiative. It's been two years, and there's no such initiative, but the damage is unrecognizable. The place abandoned by Poland is now occupied by other countries. Today, the road to Brussels of our eastern neighbours leads more and more through Vilnius and Berlin than through Warsaw. The attempt to replace the European Eastern Partnership with some exotic regional alliance under the leadership of Poland was a complete failure. It was rejected by both our EU partners from the region and our eastern neighbours. As a result of this disaster, the entire Polish Eastern policy gradually froze and became passive. When there is no positive agenda for Eastern policy towards the future, there is a space for historical accounting policy and political revisionism. Today we see it clearly. If we do not radiate activity to the East, thinking about the future, then we start to turn to the tragic past and wake up radicalism from all sides of the eastern border. The amendment of the law on IPN and its provisions towards Ukraine became a tragic crown of this process. Let me stop briefly on the issue of Ukraine, because it is crucial here. The policy of the PiS government towards Ukraine deserves the Court of State, I want to make it clear. You have destroyed a delicate process of reconciliation, closeness of Polish-Ukrainian, also in the field of history by all teams for 20 years. You have destroyed John Paul's policies and efforts in this area II, subsequent governments and even your own President Lech Kaczyński, whom you so often rely on. You have given policy towards Ukraine to nationalists, populists and people who implement Moscow's program on this issue, knowingly or not, rather than Warsaw. You turned your back on Ukraine at a dramatic moment in its history when he fought with Russia for his and our independence. That's some diplomatic betrayal. You like that term. The Poles will not forget this. In the case of Russia, you have failed to keep your promise that you will recover the wreckage of the government aircraft, commemorate the victims of the Smolensk disaster. The only achievement of your policy towards Russia is the elimination of the local border traffic with the Kaliningrad region - this is the only concrete one - for which the local government and entrepreneurs from north-eastern Poland paid. Do you, like your predecessor, intend to improve relations with Belarus without any preconditions? I have to ask that question. It is a pity that it took two years for you to notice that the pact with a warm man - Lukashenka, at the expense of Belarusian civil society and free media such as Belsat, brings only shame to Poland and does not bring any tangible results. Where is the small border traffic that all Eastern Poland is waiting for? Why is the Polish Union still an illegal organization in Belarus? There's no progress here. Minister! You said today that the motto of your foreign policy is to be a slogan: nothing about us without us. In Eastern politics you have achieved a completely opposite effect: everything happens without us. Poland is no longer an expert in matters of the East, Poland is no longer a leader in the region. Your government has no vision of the future that would be attractive to our eastern neighbours. You're describing a reality that doesn't exist because you destroyed it. After 2 years of your governments, we need to rebuild the Polish Eastern policy from the foundations. But I would like to make it clear that if you are willing to do so, if you are willing to restore the Polish Eastern policy to the spirit of Jerzy Giedroyci, this is the dimension of compromise. above divisions, back to the roots of success in Polish Eastern politics, we are ready to help. Unfortunately, we did not find such a proposal in today's exhibition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u46	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You said, quote: We support Polish entrepreneurs in Africa and the Middle East. Minister, as the young people say, come on. Poland does not lead in the Middle East either good or bad politics, because... [[You're driving.]] ...what kind of policy can you run from the basement of the British Embassy in Baghdad? The end of the war in Iraq, the falling dust after the war in Syria for the whole world, means that a giant operation to rebuild these two countries will soon begin. The road to Iraq leads through Baghdad, Syria and the rest of the Middle East - through Beirut, while we still do not have a direct air connection from Warsaw to both of these capitals. The Polish embassy in Baghdad is less than modest, as I mentioned, in the basement of the British embassy. The Polish entrepreneur receives an Iraqi visa on the spot, at the Embassy in Warsaw, and Iraqis must travel several hundred kilometres to Kurdistan. That's how we support entrepreneurs in the Middle East. Minister! As far as the Middle East is concerned, we have great human relations here. St. John Paul II is a symbol of not only a credible dialogue between cultures and religions, but also an ambassador of Polish openness. And we would like to help Polish entrepreneurs there, and I hear that the Minister would also like, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it doesn't look good today. Minister! On behalf of Polish entrepreneurs and Middle Eastern partners, I have one request: if you cannot help, at least do not disturb. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Klaviter, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The right hand of the Republic expects foreign policy, among others. efforts to shape the development of the European Union towards the model of Europe of homelands. We should work intensively with countries with a similar vision for Europe: a Europe of sovereign countries, not a federal Europe. The subsidiarity principle should be the basis for action. This principle does not apply, inter alia. in Europe's climate policy. Targets such as CO2 reduction should be set, but the way to achieve these objectives should be the country-specific one. It is a dangerous element of the agreement of the parties forming the government in Germany, declaring intensively to counter the development of nuclear energy, because it is assumed that this also threatens Germany's export of renewable energy installations. This action is also in Russia's hands because it will lead to a significant increase in gas demand. Suffice it to say that in France, where 70% energy needs coincide with nuclear energy, electricity is twice as cheap as in Germany, where it is marginalised. For the sovereignty of Poland it is important to preserve the gold as a national currency. The Greeks would have long forgotten their crisis if they had national currency - drachma. Poland should be both a promoter of Christian civilization in the Union and should defend persecuted Christians in the world. Christian values are the best basis for the development of our civilization. We should not support the shift of emphasis on the EU's defence policy because it weakens NATO and consequently threatens our security. We cannot be isolated, we should strive to transform our part of the continent from the buffer zone into a cooperation zone. Poland should create a system of creating a positive image in the world, even by creating television stations primarily in English, German, Russian and Ukrainian languages. In the context of the current conflict with Israel, greater importance should be attached to publications in the languages of the congresses of the sources concerning our history. In economic terms, we should pay more attention to the growing economies of East Asia, which is not visible. Our exports to Asia were only 6%. A new silk trail is also an opportunity to strengthen security. China will press Russia for security. Let's boldly cremate our own position, our own politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to say hello to the ladies from the village housewives from Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Welcome, ladies. [[Applause]] And I give the floor to Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Szka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u50	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your exposé. Its structure - in the beginning you outlined the thesis, the foundation on which you later built a discussion of the various areas of Polish foreign policy - made it very easy to see how this foreign policy would look in detail. And I wanted to thank you very much for that. Of course, you can argue with details, you can even question these thesis, you can argue, for example, by questioning the first argument put by the Minister that Poland has no potential to be the leader of the region contrary to the opinion of President Donald Trump, who chose Poland as the first country during his visits to Europe, contrary to the opinion of Chancellor Merkel, who 5 days after the oath came to Poland, contrary to the assessment of the Visegrad Group countries, which are treating Poland as the leader of the region. I'm assuming that's probably what you're gonna bet on, too. It can be argued that the European Union is not in crisis, contrary to Brexit, contrary to the choice of radical parties such as AfD in Germany, the National Front in France or the Five Stars Movement in Italy. This may be the case despite the fact that everything is okay with the European Union. Referring to the third thesis, perhaps someone will put the thesis that security is a third-rate issue, and the decisions of the NATO summit and the presence of US troops in Poland are irrelevant. Finally, one can probably argue with the fourth thesis and say that the threat to Poland's security lies not in Russia's politics, but for example. in the laws reforming the courts, in the citizens' initiatives concerning the prohibition of abortion or in the procedure provided for in Article. 7 and even reform education or changes in local governments. Here's the interesting thing. Such a diagnosis of the situation, next to reality, is the specialty of the Civic Platform. When Mr Sikorski spoke in Berlin in 2011 about the main threat to the European Union, he said that it is not Russia's policy at all, he said that it is not even terrorism, but that it is a threat to the breakdown of the euro area. You can, of course, put it that way. Say it, argue, prove it. The more this equilibrystics, the more evidence that foreign policy has changed after 2015. Before 2015, this policy, moreover, was largely characterised by the President-in-Office of Gosiewiska, was based on certain three principles. Firstly, it was said that Poland is weak, so it must rely on the strong. There was a rule: nothing about us without them. Second, it was held that good relationships were like that when they praised us. Thirdly, it was finally said that it must be nice, as in aunt's name, therefore taboo topics are not worth mentioning and should not be discussed. [[Applause]] Today, Polish foreign policy is characterised by different principles - nothing about us, Poland is strong, it is a reference point, a representative of the region, good relations are relationships within which we are able to pursue our own interests, honest partnership is such that topics difficult are the basis for building relationships, mutual trust. After 2015, after the elections, the opposition did not accept the change in foreign policy. The embassy, the opposition foreign policy office, is now where President Donald Tusk, his support is the Euro MPs of the Civic Platform, and here in the Seym - Members of the opposition, sending letters for brotherly help. It didn't work. The opposition foreign policy in front of our eyes is a failure. [[Applause]] The result is a consistent foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Poland. And we can show this on many examples. I will show this in the example of your closest relationship with the Germans. These relationships have changed. This is no longer a student-master relationship, it's a partnership relationship. These are relationships based on the principle: nothing about us without them, just nothing about us without us. These are not the relationships in which there are taboo topics, which are locked deep in the MFA drawers, but this is an honest conversation about important matters for Poland. The symbol of your policy was Radosław Sikorski's speech in Berlin, where he said that he was more afraid of German inactivity than of German power. No wonder you were afraid of German inaction, because the declared good relations did not show much. In 2011, when Radosław Sikorski was just saying that he was afraid of German inactivity, the chancellor of Germany visited Poland for the first time in her second term. Do you know which order was Mrs Merkel's international visit? 51. When Chancellor Merkel was sworn in a week ago, she visited Poland as a second country after 5 days of her office and previously visited Poland by the German Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the statement of these facts mean anything to you? We are not afraid of German inaction because Germany is not idle with us today, and we are not helpless with them. [[Applause]] Thanks to the active historical policy, the fight for the good name of Poland the German head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then the chancellor clearly as never before indicated German responsibility for the crimes of World War II and the formation of concentration camps. The Germans declared that they wanted to encourage France to activate the Weimar Triangle. They appreciate the importance of this format. Germany is beginning to understand the Polish migration policy, as evidenced by the previous statements of Chancellor Merkel. The Germans signal that they see the dangers of the European Union at many speeds. A growing group of German politicians thanks to Polish activity understands how dangerous a project for the European Union is Nord Stream 2, although here, of course, there is still a lot of work ahead of us, but if you read German newspapers and probably read, then you know the letter of German MEPs in Frankfurter Allgemeine, important German Members who wrote that this project should not be created above the heads of representatives of Poland and the Baltic States. Germany also knows today that the European Union cannot be reformed without Poland. Here they come to consult their ideas, to look for their ideas of support, not to do so, and you are very disappointed to talk about the article. 7. The Germans also know how important it is for Poles to guarantee that Polish people will exercise their rights in Germany at the same level as we guarantee Germans in Poland. We started this trial. The new quality of contact with Polonia is provided by the facility in Berlin. The Germans are starting to implement our demands here. These are the effects of a consistent foreign policy in relation to Germany. What were the results of your policy - just one - besides personal careers, led by Donald Tusk? Your foreign policy did not exploit the potential of Poland, it was not effective before 2015. And fortunately, what happened after the election, or the conduct of foreign pseudopoliticalism by the opposition, is not effective either. It has not helped to write a resolution against Poland by Mr Trzaskowski. It has not helped to write letters for my brother's help by Mr Petru. The Twitter alarms by the opposition service in Brussels did not help. The story of Róża Thun about Professor Krasnodębski, who was supposedly Fascist, did not help. You've done a great deal of damage to all of this, it's true, but you've lost. [[Applause]] This is something to be thanked for, something to be enjoyed. So you weren't effective here. And in this case, not only in this case, about your opposition foreign pseudopolitics, your failure is the victory of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u52	I'm still impressed by this brilliant speech, and I need a moment to cool off. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Minister, I would like to draw your attention to a problem that I think you have not noticed, I am surprised because the whole world has noticed it, a problem with the Polish National Remembrance Institute Act. The Lord practically, if not for one sentence devoted to Israel, de facto did not stutter about this law. The worst part is that you didn't say anything about this bill, and I'm going to quote you in a second, but you didn't point out a way out of this problem. I expected, I think it's not just me, the Poles expect that the foreign minister who speaks and speaks in the exposé... Let me remind you, this is not a diagnosis of the situation, this is an indication of directions, ways of solving problems. At least Poles, at least the United States, you did not mention it, did not say a single word about it, at least Israel and at least Ukraine are waiting for some movement from Poland, waiting for some movement from the Ministry, some offensive movement. We need... Many times this has fallen today, we have very good experience in building trust, mutual relations with Ukraine, Israel, with the United States, which you call, and rightly, our main partner and guarantee of our security, but we need some gesture from the ministry. What do you give, Minister? You said one sentence in the context of Israel that the conflict concerning the IPN made us aware of the difference in the historical memory of Poles and Jews. But what's the difference? That we're not responsible for 1968 or that we're proud of it? I don't agree with you. It is not the difference between Poles and Jews, because many Poles think, just as the Jews do, that we have nothing to be proud of when it comes to 1968. And certainly, Minister, it is not a difference between us and the Jews to say... We disagree with the Polish Prime Minister, who says that the Jews are accomplices of the Holocaust. We also disagree, fortunately, with his father, who said that the Jews themselves were willing to go to the ghettos. I'm not going to mention those public television smart guys who are attacking the Polin museum and your director Cywiński. After all, Cywiński's name is not just any name in Polish culture, in Polish science. How can you do that? After all, these are all gestures that are received. Minister, listen, if it were a single gaffe and if there was a signal from Polish diplomacy, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs here today that you do not agree that you must not attack the director of the Auschwitz Museum, that you cut off from it, it would be a signal for Polish diplomacy. You contribute to creating an atmosphere of consent, and we need to return to the language of dialogue, to normal dialogue. The same goes for the Ukrainians. You said one real sentence that the Germans blocked our research in Kharkov, but it didn't happen once, it didn't happen 10, 20 years ago. We've been looking into it. I remember, even I was there, I saw research there, and also other Ukrainian cemeteries. There are reasons why this happened. You don't have to say from the speaker that your government or previous government, the former Prime Minister, withdrew the funding and patronage of Wisła's actions to the Ukrainians in Poland. If we are so sensitive, and rightly so, on issues of Volyn, let us remember that Jaworzno was then also Polish, communist, but Poland. Let us be sensitive to the sensitivity of our partners, then it will be much easier. You do your homework, you're in a situation where you manage a country that's already out of high school, it's grown up, and you're acting like you're in first grade. You guys are rehearsing lessons that we've been through a long time ago. We learned these lessons with the Ukrainians, with the Jews we just did a long time ago. Don't go through the first grade, the second grade, just take advantage of the work we have, because, indeed, as Mr Schetyna said, it is about what you will leave behind. Each of us, Minister, every government, every minister has a duty to add another brick. I'm afraid you will leave, at least in these areas, the Ukrainians, the Jews, just the rubble. I ask you, sir, not to be afraid of such declarations, because the words in diplomacy are crucial. For your part, there was no positive communication to our partners, and this communication should also be heard by the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Henry Kissinger said: Security is the foundation of everything we do. External security is one of the main priorities of the programme with which the Law and Justice went to the 2015 elections. And I would like to stress that within two years of the rule of the United Right, we have radically changed the level of security of our homeland. We are increasing national defence spending and work is underway to find other forms of funding for the Armed Forces. I would like to say that the default of 2% last year was explained here by the Minister in his speech, but there was a charge from this stand by Mr Appeal, who said that for the first time in many years there is a situation that we have not implemented the established budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth remembering such matters, especially if we are talking from this high stand, that just as in the Soviet car handout joke in Moscow, so also here this information appeared, because for the second time in a row the Law and Justice Government and the Ministry have realized 100% the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, and for 8 years the Civic Platform has not been spent on national defence of more than PLN 12 billion, which kind of translates into specific equipment. If this money was spent, we could have, for example. three submarines with full equipment or 50 multi-tasking aircraft. [[But there's still nothing. I don't know if defense is your strong suit.]] Our Armed Forces significantly increase their potential, and in the international dimension, Poland's security is based on the coherence of the North Atlantic Alliance and bilateral relations with our allies, primarily with the United States. In the last 2 years, and especially after the NATO summit in Warsaw, the perception of Poland and our region has changed and our allies have recognised, firstly, that Russia is a threat to the security of not only this region, but also of the whole Europe, and have decided to significantly strengthen the eastern border of NATO. The presence of NATO troops in our region is a clear symbol of the unity and solidarity of the Alliance in the face of the threats facing the region, as well as the whole of Europe. As a result of the agreement of this summit, Poland has received important tasks in the field of European security. The International Northwest Corps in Szczecin has become a key command coordinating NATO's tasks in the north-western region of the Alliance. There is a multinational division in Elbląg, and our units are an important, permanent element of combat groups in the Baltic States and Romania. In our territory we host forces of allies from the USA, Great Britain, Romania and Croatia. We are taking action to make Poland the main link stabilizing security on the eastern NATO flank. The increase in the importance of Poland in the region is also expected by our allies who have joined the North Atlantic Pact in the last several years. Active efforts to maintain and strengthen military presence in Poland and throughout the eastern flank are a priority of Polish foreign policy. Our goal is to convert this presence from a rotating constant to a permanent one. Poland is actively involved in the work of the Alliance to increase also the mobility and response rate of NATO forces in Europe. Our strategic partner is the United States. President Donald Trump's speech in Warsaw shows how the USA sees the role of the Republic of Poland in the region, in the European Union and at global level. We work with our most important ally on many levels. This year he will be ready to fight the missile base in Redzików. The U.S. military are planning to increase their presence in our country and region. We also cooperate economically more and more, especially with the defence industry, in the acquisition of modern equipment for the Armed Forces. We are grateful that Poland as an important partner of the USA has the opportunity to acquire the latest forward-looking technologies. This will significantly increase the military potential of the Polish Armed Forces. By stressing the unity of the Alliance, our Armed Forces participate in NATO missions, but also in the European Union and the United Nations. This presence shows that not only do we expect support at the eastern border, but we are also willing to take joint responsibility for combating threats in different parts of Europe and the world. It is our allies who notice and appreciate. Poland is also actively involved in two new initiatives of the European Union: permanent structural cooperation, so-called. PESCO, and the European Defence Fund, EDF. These are programmes to implement the European Union's defence ambitions. Poland is involved in these projects, provided that they are compatible with the objectives of the North Atlantic Alliance. Poland is also active in security in global foreign policy. Our membership of the United Nations Security Council will focus on key issues for expanding and strengthening global peace, conflict prevention and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We are an important partner for our most important allies in Europe: France, Great Britain, Sweden and the Netherlands. Together, we take initiatives to stabilise the situation not only in Europe but also in other hot spots in the world. As Jan Nowak-Jeziorański said: The universal safety criterion adopted is its own defence potential combined with alliance agreements, ensuring effective deterrent of the potential attacker. After 2 years, we can say with full responsibility that external security is one of the greatest successes of the rule of law and justice. At this point, I would like to thank all those who contributed to increasing the potential to deter the Republic of Poland: Mr President, Prime Minister Beata Szydło with the entire government, Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski, Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, and all others who contributed. [[Peters.]] It is this team that has developed long-awaited effects on the safety of the brightest Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say that contrary to what the President said, I, with great hope, welcomed your nomination, among others. because you have such values as freedom and peace in your heart and today they translate into security within the NATO structure and the roots of Poland in the world of Western democracy - the European Union. These are the values for which so many generations have fought unsuccessfully, and which our generation - luckily born in a cap - has successfully fought out. However, declarations are not enough. You have to act because these values are at risk today. Citizens' values, the freedoms we are talking about under the rule of law of the democratic state, are at risk and there is concern about security, as this is shown by statements from the American side, which you know. Who wrote this speech to you today? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You smiled yourself when you read it because you had to read it because it was written that Polish society still trusts the European Union and wants to see itself - Poland - still within the Union. So we must thank the Poles because these 2 years of government were exactly the opposite, and you must not only declare but also act to reverse this trend. Next paragraph on the white book. Well, yesterday, you heard the Minister's answer to what the European Commission thinks about the White Paper. Is there really no reflection to at least flip this paragraph or throw it away? It is not possible to build partnerships based on false declarations or such documents. Action is needed: response to recommendations or expectations of the European Commission or the Venice Commission. This is why the previous minister invited representatives of the Venice Commission to Poland to act as a partner. I would mostly like to address security issues. If you are actually quoting the strategic Polish-American alliance, our presence in NATO, and asking the question, we will ask the Americans why we are delayed in the implementation of the project concerning the missile shield, in the implementation of the base in Redzikow, then I am sorry, but it sounds like information about unjustified interruptions in the work of 1980. Let's call things by name. This is the statement by the State Department or Rex Tillerson or Ambassador Jones, or finally the memo, which is also discussed publicly, point to the need to repair the rule of law in Poland on the one hand, but also to amend the law. She's on the table, in your hands, Marshal Kuchciński, President Duda. There must be action on your side. You, as Minister, have an obligation, not only today, but an obligation, to restore confidence in Poland. And believe me, the opposition will support such actions, because who puts the safety of Poland and Poles at risk can not call himself a patriot. I believe you're a patriot, he was, and will be in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u57	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am proud that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland is a man from the first generation of the NZS. This is pride for our generation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the economic space of today's exposé. The instrument of foreign policy of each country aimed at promoting the Polish economy and its economic interests in both bilateral and multilateral contacts with foreign partners is economic diplomacy, diplomacy with very important tools in achieving these objectives: an extensive treaty base and the creation of a friendly legal environment, protection of the rights and interests of Polish economic operators abroad, promotion of Poland as a reliable partner in trade and investment contacts, analysis of bilateral relations and the geopolitical situation of the country or region, analysis of possibilities arising from Poland's membership of international organisations and institutions. I would like to stress that thanks to economic diplomacy and these tools more than 6 000. companies benefited from the assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This may not be a very impressive amount, but step by step we are trying to build in economic space something that countries with a free economy call the middle class, and today 95% Polish taxpayers are in the first tax space. As regards foreign cooperation, very good contacts should be highlighted. In the trading area with the People's Republic of China, the turnover of $30 billion speaks for itself, first of all, but second of all, there is a very large issue of personal exchange, so to speak. And it is the Chinese who stress that the development of tourism in particular is extremely important for trade and development of international markets, because if a tourist after two to three years of such a tourist contact is well served, the first investors arrive after three years. As far as investments by the People's Republic of China are concerned, we also want to do so, for example because of the silk trail, which - as one of the Members said earlier - coming through Russia, will also, I hope, affect stability in this Euro-Asian region. It is important to highlight here, with trade, very good results in terms of trade with South Korea and India. The strategic partnership with South Korea and Japan is a fact. The problem that we have been dealing with for many years is the deficit. As I said, I think that when this medium layer arises, that is when Poland will earn not only those private enterprises, but above all producers, we will reduce this deficit. It is important to highlight the very specific increase in cooperation with countries such as Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and Israel. Focusing on this cooperation is primarily a focus on new technologies, because we would like these new technologies and access to civilizational achievements to be the fruit that each Pole will be able to share with others. As far as cooperation on the African continent is concerned, of course, the most stable market and the most stable country in terms of cooperation is South Africa. Everything seems to be going on for a while. As far as South America is concerned, we have a very interesting development in terms of space such as Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Chile. It seems that this will bring the expected results to our economy, and this, I think, quickly. It is very important to attract intellectual capital to Poland. I am referring here to the Polish Prize program, which is aimed at foreign start-ups, which would like to start business in Poland. The aim of this programme is to create our country as a country of first choice when it comes to doing business in Central and Eastern Europe. This is very important and will be very important for the development of our country. I will add here in terms of big events, which he carries out, among others. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, climate conference to be held in Katowice in December this year. This is one of the most important events, one of the most important international events currently organized in the world, aimed at about 20 and 22 thousand. People. So I think it will be an extraordinary opportunity to promote not only Katowice, not only the Silesian region, but also our country. I would like to address our country's development policy in a few more sentences. Our country is becoming a richer country year after year, which translates into the development of our activity in this space. In 2017, the Council Poland has allocated more than PLN 2.5 billion to development aid, including a significant amount of less than PLN 200 million for humanitarian aid to the population affected by the crisis in the Middle East, including Syria. Our further plans for this space are very rich and I hope that they will be implemented in the coming years. In line with our Multi-annual Development Assistance Programme for 2016-2020, the priority countries in our aid policy will be our neighbours. I am talking here, in particular, about Belarus, but also about Georgia, Moldova and, of course, Ukraine. It's all the post-communist countries we're with, let's say, in closer relations. Incredibly interesting, important and necessary for our economy is the African space, which Poland has been involved in its development aid for many years. I am talking about countries such as Ethiopia, Kenya, Palestine, Senegal, Tanzania and Burma. I would like to stress that our country's policy in this development area is responsible for the European Union's development policy. In June 2017, the European Union adopted a new European consensus for development aimed at providing a framework for a common approach between the European Union and the Member States to development policy and cooperation with developing countries. The consensus is also the answer, in the context of development aid, to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted in 2015. So much in this space. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Grunkled, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u60	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! You're not here, Minister! High Izbo! I listened with great attention to this speech, this exposé and the first reflection that comes into being is that the Minister did not cut himself off from his predecessor, uses another rhetoric, otherwise accents, but was not really able to re-orient our foreign policy and, above all, too much reference to the past. I wanted to briefly refer to Polish-German relations. Our neighbour, the Minister, says that he is our main political and economic partner in the Union. The economic partner - agreed, the turnover in 2017 exceeded over EUR 100 billion. Political partner - this is the thesis It's pretty dubious. Your predecessor said the same thing last year, not much came of it, but rather a cool relationship. The Minister took office at the moment when anti-German rhetoric reached the apogee. As in the times of the Polish People's Republic, playing with the German card, scaring the bad neighbour were elements of everyday politics. First of all, emphasising Germany's dominance and demand for reparation was on the lips of all prominent PiS politicians each time. The Minister should know, because Mr PiS may not think that no one in Germany denies the crimes of World War II. But the minister should also know that the topic of reparation, firstly, is separated from the real problems, and secondly, legally and politically closed. Therefore, the proposal for experts to deal with this subject can be good for historical research, but it only allows you to keep your face. By the way, please distinguish the reparations from compensation, because according to PiS, we never received any compensation. Who advises Prime Minister Morawiecki? Historians calculated that Poland received about 1.6 billion euros, or 1/6 German payments to Hitler's foreign victims, and the Prime Minister said 1%. What's the point of lying? [[It's outrageous what you're saying.]] After all, this is embarrassing and embarrassing for our foreign partners. The euphoria of right-wing environments after the visit of Chancellor Merkel in Warsaw is astonishing. After all, the German side is consistently looking for dialogue and wants to cooperate with us not only on a bilateral level, but above all on a European level. In the coalition agreement... You'll have your time, Mr. Mularczyk. There's a record of cooperation in the coalition agreement, but it was four years ago. The difference is that now more emphasis is placed on issues of social cooperation, because politically, there is no one to work with. Perhaps the Minister will listen to his German counterpart, who came here to visit Mr. Heik Maas, who said that he was building consent and that the disagreement was ruining it. The Minister should remember that. Therefore, if you really want to work with the Germans, first of all, reactivate the round table. Then you will carry out the postulates of Polonia, which you mentioned, as if you had more access to teaching Polish language. Secondly, get involved in the reactivation of the Weimar Triangle so that the voice of Poland is more audible. Thirdly, instead of demanding a reparation, please do better to try to build a monument in Berlin for the Polish victims of Nazism. This is an idea advocated by the sleeper. Prof. Władysław Bartoszewski, and recently reported by the German architect Florian Mausbach. Today, many prominent people from the world of politics, science and culture signed a letter of intent on this matter. This should be used. Bring the embassy to an end in Berlin and, by the way, replace TW Wolfgang's ambassador because no one wants to talk to him today in Berlin. Let the government you represent abide by the rule of law and European values, because then your voice will be heard and respected. Then you can convince your partners, for example. Nord Stream is threatening our energy security. Finally, in the end, whatever you do, do in the name of reconciliation and be mindful of the future, because you cannot waste it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u61	Thank you very much. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 46 hours 14 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Mr Joseph Leśniak, the Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of Polish policy is to maintain Polish national identity among compatriots residing outside the country. Such actions may be supportive of the actions initiated by Polonia itself, but against those environments where the Polish identity is weak or disappears, Polish policy must show exceptional activity. Special objectives should be set in the case of Polish policy, the subject of which is the people of the East, especially those who are mostly outside the country's borders not of their own free will, and their material status is much lower than the people of Poland. The main challenge is therefore the effective completion of the repatriation process. The Government of Law and Justice feels very responsible for Polonia and Poles living abroad. After many years the Republic of Poland claimed its compatriots in the East. For the last 25 years, the Polish state has failed to fulfil its moral obligation to assist the repatriates. They have not been given a real opportunity to come to Poland, and many thousands of our compatriots in Kazakhstan expect the opportunity to come to their homeland. Today, repatriation is really possible. The current law introduces new forms of financial assistance for repatriates and facilitates the return and settlement of Polish people in Poland, among others. thanks to huge financial support and facilitations in the adaptation process after returning to the country. As a result, our countrymen are not left alone. The case of Polish people in the East is a priority for the current government, which is confirmed by the amendment of the Polish Charter Act, which makes it significantly easier for the holders to settle in Poland and apply for Polish citizenship. It was the Government of Law and Justice 11 years ago that passed the Polish Charter Act, which he has now amended, creating further important legal solutions for our fellow countrymen in the East. However, some Poles want to remain in countries strongly connected with the history of the Polish state and Polish culture. The current government also wants to support their activities. In this context, it is a particular priority to support the teaching of Polish language among the Polish minority in the East. For years we have been familiar with the catalogue of Polish-Lithuanian problems, whose main measure is the absence of a law on national minorities. The Polish government continues to raise this issue consistently in the framework of building bilateral partnerships, as demonstrated by the recent frequent visits of the Sejm and Senate Marshals and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Lithuania. Poland also has a dialogue with the Belarusian authorities on the situation of the Polish minority. It is our duty to maintain full access to education for children from Polish families. The Polish state must do everything to ensure that our compatriots regain their Polish homes, and our largest organization, i.e. The association of Poles in Belarus has acquired the status of legally functioning. A particular challenge for the current government was to reduce education in Polish for our minority in Ukraine. Thanks to the immediate response of the government, it has become possible for the Ministers of Education of Poland and Ukraine to sign an agreement that maintains the existing legal solutions in this area. Today, with the Government of Law and Justice, we are also trying to eliminate long-term negligence in defending the rights of our fellow countrymen in all areas of social life in the West. The situation of Poles behind the Oder requires special care. Poles in Germany have not restored the legal status of a national minority since World War II. Moreover, for several years we have been dealing with the problem of Jugendamty's taking children away from Polish parents. At the initiative of the Polish government, for the first time in 5 years, a meeting of the Polish-German working group on the Cross-border mediation on this issue, and the Council of Ministers adopted a draft law reforming comprehensively the issues of receiving Polish children and transferring them abroad under the Hague Convention. This law is fundamental because it protects Polish children. In an uncertain situation, our countrymen living in Great Britain, which is the largest, because almost a millionth, national minority in the Islands. In the face of brexitu, the greatest concerns of our compatriots are the legal conditions of residence and work, the maintenance of existing safeguards of mutual rights and cases of hate crimes. Poland carefully negotiates the conditions for Britain's departure from the European Union, ensuring that the rights of Poles in the Islands are protected. We also invited Polonia and Poles abroad to partner with us. After all, each of them is the best Polish ambassador in the country of his stay. That is why we engage our compatriots in wider activities serving the Polish state. This is served by consultative Polish councils and Polish institutes operating outside the country. We reform and strengthen the role of Polish institutes. Their basic actions are directed by the Polish government to improve the image of Poland abroad, to popularize knowledge about Poland, our history, culture and language. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many challenges ahead of us, but the current government creates political standards in which Polonia and Poles abroad are the subject, not the subject of Polish foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister Chaputowicz spoke a lot today about relations with NATO and with the United States. I quote one passage: The government, together with the President, has been effectively seeking to strengthen NATO military presence in the region since autumn 2015. And that's the problem with this government. PiS believes that history in Poland has been running since autumn 2015, that the world began in October 2015, that there was no wheel before, that there was no fire before, that it was not Gen. Hermaszewski who was the first Pole in space. When we talk about Polish-American relations, as you can see on the palm of your hand, that the Polish state is continuity, that it is a relay, which is already completely obvious after 1989. The lack of skills to continue is one of the biggest problems of foreign policy since autumn 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In politics, symbols are important, gestures are important, history is important and memory is important. The Polish government published a spot a few weeks ago, which talked about our accession to the North Atlantic Alliance, where historical photographs and films were presented. Does the High House know what historical pictures and films were there? I suppose it could be assumed that there was a photograph of Professor Geremek who signed our accession letter in the presence of Madeleine Albright. Nothing more wrong, High Izbo. In the picture, which was presented in the spot, there was Minister Błaszczak - this was a historical picture from 2 weeks ago - and President Duda - a picture from 2 months ago. These are historic pictures today. There are no historical photographs of Professor Geremek or Alexander Kwasniewski, who was then President of the Republic of Poland or Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, but Błaszczak and Duda. [[Minister Błaszczak and President Duda.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister Chaputowicz... It means to realize that the history of Polish presence in NATO also did not start in autumn 2015. Paradoxically, it is worth asking ourselves whether Polish foreign policy did not end in autumn 2015. Polish-American relations are one of the foundations of our state right. So let's go back to 1918. It was then that Poland was at the heart of American geopoliticalism through President Thomas Woodrow Wilson. Then there's President Reagan, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. On the Polish side are all Polish presidents who built relations with America. There are Lech Wałęsa, Aleksander Kwasniewski and Lech Kaczyński, who was able to defend his allies. Finally, there is Bronisław Komorowski, for whom the presidency was decided about the presence of American troops. And for justice to be done: 2012 - U.S. Air Force Station in Łask, 2014 - the process of building an anti-missile shield in Rydzikow began, 2014 - the continuous rotating presence of the U.S. Army within the Atlantic Resolve, as well as 2014 - Atlantic Resolve, Barack Obama and his famous performance at Castle Square, 2015 - President Komorowski announces that the next NATO summit will take place in Warsaw. That's when the Newport summit decided to station the troops. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo: This is not how foreign policy is conducted, this is how it is destroyed. Autumn 2015 is a symbolic date when Poland started cutting off the branch on which it sits. One last thing. Polish-American relations are more than international relations, it is a matter of Polish security. We know history, we know America's involvement in key moments in the history of Europe and the world. If the U.S. government says that our policy can affect our security relationship, as we read in the official statement of the U.S. Department of State, it's no longer a warning, it's an alarm bell. If the level of security of Poland falls through your inability, it is not only Poles who will not forget it, you will not forget it also Polish history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to say a few words about public and cultural diplomacy. It is perhaps for everyone who is at the heart of the good of our country, of course, that the most important element of it today is historical policy. It is clear that historical politics translates into current international relations. It is an element directly influencing or shaping decisions about the modern situation. It is important to take care of the good name of Poland and Republican, free values, which are a contribution to European heritage. It also promotes Poland's image as a credible ally in NATO, the UN or the European Union, but also as an spokesperson for the interests of the countries of our region. However, this true story about Poland's history is a challenge of the moment. Meanwhile, here we hear: Don't do history. That's what Grzegorz Schetina said a few hours ago. Sure, let's not get into history. Let's not do anything, let's not do anything, let's not change what is, because what is, this achievements of the Civic Platform, is great - with financing films unilaterally showing Poles as criminals, with the credibility of false versions of history and their authors, aligning the Polish people with German criminals. [[That's what the Prime Minister said in Munich.]] Do not engage in history - says the PO - in foreign policy, do not change the state of affairs. This is an attempt to maintain the humiliating situation of Poland. It's an attempt to say that's the way it's supposed to be. This consequence of the butler's policy, the diplomatic policy of the Civic Platform... We remember what had been going on all these years, including the Berlin homage, including getting Angela Merkel a position for Donald Tusk. One of the most important symbols of this policy was the broadcast of our mothers, our fathers, the fruit of the German historical policy on public television. Yeah, that's what we've been dealing with. Today, the Platform says, let's not deal with history. Let's keep it that way. Angela Merkel will be pleased. [[Applause]] You also say: withdraw from the IPN Act, let it be allowed to talk about Poland as the perpetrator of German crimes. Yeah, that's the logical consequence of the platform's long-term strategy, that's not surprising. After years of conducting politics, which in some cases was a direct action against the Polish state of affairs, there is an enormous amount of work to be done. The opposition wants, for example. abandoning the subject of German reparations for Poland, and after all, the matter of reparation is not only a demand for due compensation, but also a clear increase of who was the victim and who was the criminal, and the scale of martyrdom of Poles and Poland as a state. You don't like it. Yeah, I know that. So there is an enormous amount of work to be done, also in terms of changing the presentation of Polish culture. Polish Institutes - there are 24 of them - they are already making these changes. I am very pleased that the Minister has said that these institutes are subject to reform. She's needed. An example of change and such a Koperniki coup, because under the post-communa rule it was completely impossible, for example. organizing a show of the theatrical performance about Ince, by the Polish Institute in Paris. It's unthinkable in the days of the Civic Platform. [[What nonsense?]] This year, Polish foreign institutions plan over 1200 events on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Nearly 200 of them take place now, in April and March. It is also worth appreciating the involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the process of recovering stolen cultural goods in agreement with the Ministry of Culture. The last few months have been very successful. It's actually the beginning of the road, the beginning of regaining your own voice, unfalsely politics of shame. I will admit that I have great expectations about the reform of Polish institutes as well as towards the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, which of course does not come under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but deals with similar topics. It's really time for a good change. It's time to move away from the politics of shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u67	Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u68	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you said national security was the most important thing. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister will demand the settlement of Antoni Macierewicz for the destruction he has done in this area. Secondly, you spoke of double standards in the European Union. I wanted to ask you if you'd care to fight against double standards in the PiS government. I would like to remind you, for example, of the issue in Solvere, of the hidden salaries for ministers and vice-ministers in the PiS government - today we have been informed that for each minister and vice-minister it was an average of 5.5 thousand. zł, let me stress, monthly - I will remind you that the example of these double standards are, for example, Members of Jach or Peterowicz sitting on the benches of the PiS. Thirdly, the Minister spoke of opposition to the Union of two speeds. That's right. Together we must, shoulder to shoulder, I hope, run forward and be a country in the European Union at first speed. Only, Minister, you have to stop interrupting, and you have to help in all this, because unfortunately, for now, the effect is exactly the opposite. The Minister fears the link between EU funds and compliance with the rule of law in Poland, talking about unclear criteria. Minister, these criteria are very clear and very simple: we must start to respect the Constitution and we must start to respect the laws in force in Poland. Minister, last but not least, the attention may be less to you and more to all representatives of the PiS government who speak internationally and also here in Poland. Stop treating Poland like your private farm. Security of Poland and foreign policy are important matters for all of us. This is not a private PiS war on all fronts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u69	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u70	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I wanted to highlight the topic of reparation and compensation of war in Polish-German relations and to draw attention to it. Well, High Izbo, in Polish-German relations, issues of reparation and compensation of war for the Republic of Poland and for individuals after World War II have never been settled effectively and definitively. [[That's why we didn't bring it up at the Angela Merkel meeting.]] The policy of Germany towards Poland can be characterized as a game of silence, statute of limitations and oblivion. The Polish peace treaty, which would end World War II - as was the case after World War I - has not yet been concluded with Poland - in which Germany would settle for material and personal damage. Germany also never accounted for the works of art and cultural goods exported from Poland. This problem in relation to Poland over the years has always been pushed back to the background for various reasons, with different arguments, which is why today this issue returns in a public debate with doubled social and media power. Therefore, a parliamentary team was formed in the Polish Sejm, which analyzes the issue of reparation and compensation after the Second World War over the last 70 years. An analysis of the archive documentation, legal expertise and behaviour of Germany towards other countries affected by World War II is being carried out. Experts are also working on the report on the war losses of the Republic of Poland. During World War II Poland suffered the greatest loss of property and loss of national assets, as well as personal losses from all European countries in relation to the total population. These losses were not only due to war activities, but mainly to the German occupation policy, in particular the deliberate and organised extermination of civilians in occupied areas of the Polish state, as well as the intensive exploitation of Polish society, including forced labour, and the deliberate destruction of property, including the destruction of the capital of the Polish state - Warsaw. During the German occupation more than 6 million Polish citizens lost their lives. The number of Polish citizens in 1939 was 35 million. After the war, this number of citizens decreased by 12 million and amounted to only 23 million. As a result of the war more than 13 million Polish citizens were injured. More than 200,000 were transported to Germany for Germanization purposes. children. The permanent disability was affected by 590,000. persons. A total of 2.5 million people were deported to slave labor, while 2.5 million more were displaced, mainly from eastern Poland or from Pomerania. The losses of the property of the Republic amounted to almost 38% of the state of 1939. Losses of material substance, e.g. Warsaw, 84% , in the Polish industry - 90% , in residential buildings - 72% , in culture and monuments - 90%. The Germans destroyed and robbed 43% cultural heritage of Poland. Polish libraries lost 66% harvesting. Under international law, and in particular the Fourth Hague Convention, the war party which has violated the provisions of the above Rules of Procedure will be liable to compensation if necessary. In addition, he will be responsible for any action by persons belonging to his armed forces. The findings of the Potsdam Conference and Germany's proceedings against other countries affected during the Second World War, consisting in concluding compensation agreements with them and paying compensation, indicate that the German State should compensate the Polish State for the damage associated with the period of the Second World War. It should be stressed that the Polish People's Republic has made numerous attempts to address this problem through the United Nations. And already in 1969 Polish delegates to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights stressed that Polish citizens do not receive compensation until today due to the discriminatory legislation of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal Republic of Germany do not feel obliged to repay this tragic debt towards the Polish people. So this situation shows that already in 1969 Polish delegates - it was the famous Professor Resich, who was a Polish delegate to the UN - pointed to the non-regulation of the issue of compensation for individuals. And today, in 2018, the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Polish Sejm says that this case should be settled. It has not been regulated for 70 years, ladies and gentlemen, with premeditated and full responsibility, that all these injured people, 13 million people have died or died until today without any compensation from the German state. We need to be fully aware of what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, the Polish delegate to the United Nations stressed that the United Nations should conclude the rules on compensation for victims of World War II. Although the rules were set out in the resolutions of the legal committee, Germany has not yet complied with these commitments. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that an outstanding expert in international law, Prof. Klafkowski, has made it clear that international law does not recognise an institution for the limitation of war crimes and crimes against humanity, nor does it recognise the limitation of compensation for such crimes. It should also be stressed that in the Treaty 2+4 in 1990. Poland has been omitted as a participant in this treaty. The issue of war compensation has not been settled either. The only benefits that were paid were those paid by the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation, but these benefits concerned only a narrow group of people and were disproportionately low in relation to the potential claims of these people. It should be pointed out that, since the end of World War II, Germany has paid approximately EUR 75 billion to the victims of the Third Reich around the world. However, most of these funds were paid in the Federal Republic of Germany itself, Western Europe, Israel, the United States, and only less than 2% , because 1400 million euro, this amount went to Polish citizens. The amount given by Mr Grumpy in his speech was taken from the German media, which provided false information. It is a pity that, after many months of debate, Members of the Civic Platform refer to the German media and not to the data that result from the data of the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u72	Minister! In your speech, you said that the partnership with Ukraine is permanent and strategic. You said that you proved this: last year's visit of President Duda to Kharkiv, although, as we know, the capital of Ukraine is Kiev, six new connections of the national carrier LOT to Ukraine, although, as we know, a million Ukrainians residing in Poland, which is natural, must travel, a new gas node - this new gas node in Hermanowice - and energy cooperation, although it is not really due to the rule of law and justice. But at the same time it must be noted that the IPN Act aroused more controversy, anxiety on the Ukrainian side, and even Pavlo Klimkin, Ukrainian Foreign Minister, suggested that Russia was behind it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! If this is to be a strategic cooperation with Ukraine and it is to give a lasting partnership, then so far it is really not much in these 2 years. And I think that the office that you have assumed will require you to step up and work harder in the Ukrainian direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. I do not have much time left as part of the club speeches, but I will return to an important thread in Polish foreign policy, i.e. to cooperate with our Eastern partners, and in particular with the countries that have been included in or are part of the Eastern Partnership. I would like to refer to the words of Minister Waszczykowski, present in this Chamber, who spoke about the fact that the Eastern Partnership project does not serve the interests of Poland and could even be concluded from his speech that it is a project serving German interests. At that time we also heard assurances that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under its direction, is working on a new concept of the Eastern Partnership. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister knows such work at what stage they are and what this shape is to be, this new idea for cooperation with the former Soviet republics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if not the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, which Poland was also a co-creator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Buddy, My Successor Minister! So I made an appointment with my friends from the club to be able to speak for a few, several minutes at the end, so that, as I expected, I could correct not only rhetoric, but also, as it turns out, various contradictions to remind some errors of the predecessors, false interpretations. As expected, there's a lot of that, so I'm glad I have some time to explain it. I am surprised that such simple errors are made, which would require simply checking - the opening of an iPad or a smartphone to see if Poland has, during this time, the largest Polish-Israeli ambassador in Tel Aviv or not. He owns Jacek Khodorowicz, who has been operating there for several years. It's a simple procedure, it doesn't hurt. Our homeland has equipped us with modern technical and technological means, which allow us to easily verify and avoid such errors. You can of course avoid other mistakes, myths about the fact that there is a group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a large group of resort children, still Stalinists, etc. Let me remind you that over 60 ambassadors have been listed during my two years. Minister Chaputowicz also added a number, so that more than 2/3 of the ambassadors are mentioned. As far as management at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, there are about 100 directors and vice-directors, of which more than 80% These are the people who were children in 1989. Today they reach 40 years old, or 29 years ago they were children or beginners. So a lot of these myths couldn't be repeated, but they're little things. On the other hand, let us move on to a number of fundamental issues that are misrepresented to society. Well, one of our great successes was to reach a permanent place in the UN Security Council. Let me remind you that we have been applying for this place for years... we were going to apply for this place for the years 2010-2011. It was a decision taken by the previous Government of Law and Justice, which was deleted by the Government of the Civic Platform, by Minister Sikorski, because he simply did not want to pursue this for those years and did not want to function in 2010 and 2011 on the Security Council. This was later remembered years later, but the peak of work to get this place falls from 2016 to 2017. Of course, Bulgaria did not give up competing with us until the beginning of 2017, so a huge part of the work had to be done in 2016 and 2017, competing with Bulgaria, and then we were not sure whether the main country, the large eastern group country, was within the framework of However, the United Nations will not persuade anyone to compete with us, even to anger. We managed to convince everyone not to compete with us, and the result that went into the world proves the merits of Polish diplomacy. The programme of our membership of the Security Council was presented several times in 2017, but that is history. On the other hand, we started operating in January 2018 with President Andrzej Duda, who proposed this programme, announced in the Security Council as well as in numerous press conferences. So you have to be blind and deaf so you don't see this program. [[Voice from the O.R. Or from the Platform.]] Or the Platform, yeah. The next problem is the gasport. Gazoport is also an initiative from 2006-2007, the former Government of Law and Justice. If in 2007, as we made the decision, the next government of the Platform was carrying out a gasport... Gazoport was planned to be established and operational in 2011. In fact, in 2011 probably or 2010 the construction of the gasport started, even by companies that even cooperated with Gazprom. As a result, the gasport started operating at the turn of 2015 and 2016. So it was a very late, very harmful decision. It's a harmful delay for the safety of our interests. In this context, of course, the alleged lack of our initiatives towards Nord Stream 2. Yes, we have a problem, we're colliding with the wall, but our answer is if we can't stop it. Nord Stream 2, is that we have our own alternative. We're expanding the gasport. We received additional contracts not only from Qatar, but also from the United States. Extensive gasport will supply more fuel that we can export to the region. And we're going to build a Baltic tube from Norway, a classic one, which will then be delivered even more gas. As a result, we will offer an alternative to our part of Europe, available gas, whose supply will not be politically motivated. Much has been devoted to the place of military cooperation, NATO decisions. So I will also remind you, because I think it was Mr Tomczyk who created a new story. I do not want to mention this when we entered NATO, 1999, that we were a member of the second category for many years. Of course, we had the treaty guarantees, but there was no NATO presence, and from time to time there were exercises. The Newport Summit in 2014 did not decide on the presence of NATO-Wskie troops in Poland, decided on the so-called. A pointer that could possibly fly in in case of danger, right? And it quickly turned out in 2015 that the pointer would not make it, because the Russians obtained the so-called. Anti-accessibility. Thus, President-elect Andrzej Duda questioned the results of the Newport Summit in 2015 and proposed Newport plus, so that was our first initiative to have NATO troops stationed in Poland. And NATO's decision was made at the turn of 2015 and 2016, when, after intensive staff exercises, the Alliance learned that the only way to stop the aggressor is to stay on the eastern flank. At the same time, the Americans made a similar decision, which is why we have their battalion group and the American brigade. This is the history of the procedures for NATO-Vska and American presence in Poland. This is also an effort by the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] The next issue that goes hand in hand with this is transatlantic cooperation. I will remind you that President Andrzej Duda visited the United States in 2015, where he was invited to the table with President Obama. Yes, we also had a meeting with President Obama earlier. Do you want me to remind you what the conversation was about? [[Hunting.]] Bigos, hunting, protecting wives, etc. There are no more conversations like this. In recent years President Obama visited Poland, President Trump visited Poland. We have the U.S. military, we have major weapons programs that we will be implementing in the near future, we have energy agreements, we have a turnover of tens of billions of dollars in relations with the United States. We're opening our new offices there. In December, I had the privilege of opening a consulate in Houston, Texas. It's a great innovation center. I hope that the Minister will continue this process of opening up our representations in other important regions of the United States, which will extend economic cooperation. Yes, our ministers, Minister Magierowski, Minister Szczerski, visited the United States recently. Minister Szczerski even mentioned that there was some atmosphericity in rhetorical discussions with the United States. We were visited recently by former Ambassador Daniel Fried, who commented that there was any freezing, said about a certain inhibition of contacts. There's no freezing. And, of course, there have been several dementias in the State Department. Mrs. Nauert's been denouncing this a few times about the fact that there's no stopping contact. But on the stripes on TVN, as it didn't fit, so... [[It didn't go on TVN.]] ...the dementi has not been sustained. Another important problem - I will not address everything, but this is amazing for me - 2.3 days after important talks, visit of the German Foreign Minister, the Chancellor of the Platform's leading representative, her boss talks about trashed relationships, mocks this visit. How can we convince you? [[Because she doesn't understand.]] How many of these visits do Mrs Merkel have to live permanently in Poland to convince you that these relationships are not frozen, they are not broken? We provide statistics on economic cooperation: EUR 110 billion per year for economic exchange. This is much more than in Germany's trade with Russia, still bigger economy than Poland. [[For years.]] If we look at other statistics, we will see that the economic relationship between Germany and the Visegrad Group is wider than between Germany and France. So what argument are you going to use, some suspension of relationships, freezes, bad relationships, etc., etc.? In this context, of course... [[Maybe because he didn't have a consult at the embassy.]] ...the Weimar Triangle is mentioned. So let me remind you: the last meeting of the Weimar Triangle at Presidential level was 2012, and President Komorowski ended it. Why this president with 80%? support almost to the very end, didn't he continue meetings of the Weimar Triangle at the level of presidents? Then ask him, this is your party friend, why he ended the cooperation of the Weimar Triangle at this level. We tried to recreate it and in 2016 after 25 years of functioning of the Weimar Triangle I took part in the Weimar Triangle in a meeting of foreign ministers in Weimar, celebrating this 25th anniversary. But we didn't just celebrate because we also visited Kiev, we visited other capitals with foreign ministers. Another question: the bankruptcy of Eastern politics and who led to this bankruptcy, in what times. It was during the Civil Platform government that President Komorowski, when he was in Ukraine, was smeared with an egg on a suit, and when he visited Duma, in his presence the pro-bander resolutions were adopted. He was Minister Radek Sikorski when he visited Ukraine as part of the Weimar Triangle in February 2014 and threatened to threaten the leaders of the handyman with the finger that they had to communicate with Yanukovych and stop continuing to pull the handyman. You didn't come into Norman's format with pleasure. You explained that the Norman format would take responsibility for Ukraine, and let it do so. When I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I discovered documents that between 2014 and 2015 Belarusians offered to enter the Minsk Process several times. He refused, he refused. It was you who refused to operate in the East with active politics. [[This is a disgrace.]] You were rocking from wall to wall with Belarus, with Lukashenka, and we got the green light just from the European Union to be the one who brings Belarus back to European salons. We can't help it if Belarus doesn't want it, but we tried. A lot of attention was given to the Eastern Partnership. Yeah, I never said it was against our business, but I've said it many times, it's an extremely lame instrument. It was a storage room. All those who created the Eastern Partnership have made it clear: it is supposed to be an instrument that gently separates these countries from Russia, but does not give them the prospect of membership of the European Union. Hence, it was an eternal storage facility. It was lame. It was a lame instrument, as I said, which led to the fact that three countries immediately excluded themselves from this partnership, namely Belarus, Armenia and Azerbaijan, and three have tried and are now in this hallway, which we were talking about, that it needs to be reformed and proposed a new kind of cooperation. And last year we proposed a new chapter of Eastern Partnership cooperation within the Visegrad Group within the European Union. We were talking about connectivity, about transport, about communication with young people, about making this program a complementary program to the idea of the Tri-marine, which has also been promoted for several years. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Minister Chaputowicz, Mrs Gosievska and other Members have presented a long list of initiatives, events, facts that have taken place in the last 2 years and which will take place in the near future. What did we meet with? So the facts met with taunts, invectives, fears. The speech of the head of the Schetin Platform has been interrupted every now and then. I mean, every kid knows that... Well, I thought that a serious man in this tribune does not address his speech to children, but to Members, to a group of Members who are also familiar with foreign policy, proposes concrete alternatives. No, we got some perceptions, fears, what the Germans would do, how we would do this or that. So I still see that you live with some phobias, in the fears that Minister Sikorski once presented in his tribute to Berlin, that lack of leadership, lack of close cooperation with Germany could lead to some kind of disaster. In the meantime, it's different. I'm going back to see Mrs Merkel again. Why did Heiko Maas arrive so quickly, why did Mrs Merkel arrive so quickly? On the one hand, of course, they were bound by a coalition agreement, but on the other hand you may finally accept that the Germans have reached it, and maybe it will reach the Platform or the opposition as a whole, they have finally seen the state, which, first, clearly and clearly defined its interests on many levels, on the security level, on the economic, energy, regional cooperation and had the courage to start doing them and some of these defined interests even begin to fulfil them. The Germans have often felt that it is necessary to resolve the security issues of our part of Europe differently, not by stationing the troops, and we thought that our security would only be ensured if the troops were stationed here. Have we implemented this request? We've done it. We thought that in contrast to Nord Stream 2, which makes Western Europe dependent on uncertain, politically motivated Russian gas supplies, we would create alternative sources of supply, and that's what we do. The Germans saw it, saw it working with the Americans. So maybe you can see that... [[Voice from the room: I wouldn't count.]] ...if there is some reflection in Germany that we are able to talk about the integration of the Visegrad Group, we are able to talk about the Tri-Moore initiative, which also meets the world leaders, we are able to talk about the 16+1 initiative with China and to draw China into economic cooperation if this is noticed in Berlin and it is recognised that in this case there is a credible partner who has dared to define and implement their interests, you may also see it. I believe, High Sejm, that the information of Minister Chaputowicz should be accepted, but also help to implement the announcements he made in his exposé. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u77	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes to ask a question. There is no Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we all know that Poland should ensure the best possible relations with its neighbours, especially with Germany and Russia, both for our security and, above all, for economic benefits. Minister, it is regrettable to say that foreign policy, first of all in Russia, is unfortunately not moving forward and, on the contrary, is going backwards. If you announced at the beginning of this term that in two months' time... You have declared to the Poles that you will bring the wreck of a tupole from Russia. It has been over 2 years, there is no wreckage and we hear that it is not possible to bring it to Poland. This is the failure of the foreign services of this government. But I would also like to speak on behalf of residents, in particular north-eastern Poland, Warmia-Mazury and Podlaskie voivodships, in the matter of closing the local border traffic with the Kaliningrad region. I have a fundamental question. Minister, will a small border traffic be restored with the Kaliningrad circuit, and if so, when? Small entrepreneurs from Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship are looking forward to this, who had very positive [[♪ The bell ♪]] the economic result, because in 2015 there was an inflow of PLN 215 million as regards the expenditure of inhabitants from the Kaliningrad region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today quite a lot was said about Polish-German relations. I have two very specific questions about this. There is still a large imbalance in Polish-German relations. So far, the descendants of the pre-war Polish minority in Germany have not been granted the status of a national minority, which they lost in the times of the Third Reich. When will the government formally request the status of a Polish minority in Germany? At the moment, this is done by counsel Stefan Hambur, who is not a member of the Polish government. Hambur's patron and Marcin Masny held a hunger protest twice last year on the recognition of the Polish minority in Germany. Will the Polish government take seriously this subject only when one of these gentlemen starves to death? I know, otherwise, that they are planning another hunger protest on this matter in the near future. The second question concerning the same topic: Can the site of the former Polish embassy at Unter den Linden be used and used as a Polish centre promoting Polish national historical policy in the face of attacks on Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u82	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in your exposé you spoke a lot about the European Union and the attachment of Poles to this community. However, the truth is that President Andrzej Duda, from PiS, in one of his last speeches, compared the Union to the conquerors. Minister, what is the relationship between the PiS and the European Union? Nowogrodzka Diplomat, because that's what you have to call it, created by the PiS, serves only and exclusively the implementation of the party interests on which our country loses. You've devastated everything that built the previous governments for over 25 years. Everything you've been doing has been a disaster for Poland. The article has been launched. 7, in the debates on the rule of law we are mentioned alongside countries such as Belarus and Russia, you are devastated by the Białowieża Forest, for which the dispute has moved to the EU level, not to mention the compromise 27:1. Of course, about the caracals or teaching the French to eat with a fork. I won't mention it either. You have broken Poland with all your previous partners and allies. This is what foreign policy conducted by diplomats from Nowogrodzka looks like. But Minister, with all due respect to you, it's not your fault. The leader of the ruling party, who was not even in this room today, is responsible for this defeat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I originally wanted to ask one question, but the speech, the words made just here, from this speaker, by former Minister Waszczykowski, prompt me to return to the new concept of the Eastern Partnership once again. Well, the Minister admitted that he was one of the critics of the concept of this program, this project. Former Minister Waszczykowski even somehow said, for the first time, what reservations he formulated or formulated against the Eastern Partnership, but the answers concerning this alternative which the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs was supposed to propose were completely different from his expectations. Well, he said that the Eastern Partnership did not offer the prospect of membership, but at the same time what Poland proposed to Eastern partners - connectivity and youth cooperation. So is there, again, an alternative, a new but serious vision of cooperation with former Soviet republics in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The second question relates very specifically to the issue of renovation, the protection against the complete degradation of the Polish cemetery in Ross in Vilnius. We have information that the Lithuanian Government has accumulated a pool of funds, including EU funds, for the renovation of this beautiful but at the same time terribly neglected, especially in the private part of the civil part of the Polish necropolis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Polish government know about this? Would the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs be willing to participate in this project, also financially? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch asked in writing. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u86	Thank you very much. Minister! Dear Minister, Last Friday, during the meeting with the Foreign Minister, Mr. Heiko Maas, you spoke to him, among others. to revive the dialogue within the Weimar Triangle. You also mentioned this in your speech. I'd like to ask you more details. Is there also an initiative on the part of the Minister to take action to ensure that this tripartite agreement between France, Germany and Poland can function and also improve relations between the three countries? The second topic I would like to ask, Minister, you also mentioned it, is the famous construction or renovation of the Embassy at Unter den Linden Strasse. Let me put it this way: as you mentioned, I remembered my first years in Parliament. In 2006 the Commission I asked about the investment. I must say that we are in 2018 and I have an answer: we are building. Can you say, "Will we build, renovate?" And when? I do not hide that it is a pity that, with such good relations between Poland and Germany, we have such unsavory examples of investments which should not be implemented in the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u88	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Foreign policy is not only the visits of the most important leaders of the countries in the glow of the flashes or talks in the privacy of diplomatic offices. Its important elements are parliamentary diplomacy, as well as very frequent and close foreign contacts at the level of local authorities. In view of the above, Minister, I would like to ask how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cooperates with local authorities in the implementation of Polish foreign policy and whether it is planned to strengthen this cooperation, and if so, in which specific areas. I have one more question. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any information on how this aspect of the country's foreign policy was implemented by our predecessors? If so, I would ask for information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u89	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was very happy about this part of the Minister's speech in which you spoke about how many Poles - because more than 80% - supports our membership of the European Union. I have indeed expressed my approval. But, Minister, at the end of this debate, Marshal Kuchciński, Member of the Lightest Republic, my humble person, has punished me with a financial penalty. [[He had something to be sorry for.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the true face of Law and Justice. [[There is a need to behave differently, sir.]] You are talking about the fact that you are an island of democracy, you are showing a white paper in Brussels, and when Members talk about the need to support our membership, you must keep your fingers crossed for Poland in the European Union to be a strong and proud country, what does Mr Marshal do at the end? He's punishing the opposition with a financial penalty. This is your real face. [[Applause]] But you have another, another real face. You often say, especially from the PiS benches, that the euro, the introduction of the currency is the worst solution. You don't want to discuss it. What's the reality? Let's take a look at the statements of property of law and justice MEPs. What can we see? Ryszard Czarnecki, MEP - 340 thousand. Euro savings. So what's the euro like? Are you afraid of this euro or are you actually doing something completely different? And the issue of immigration - because PiS often criticized the fact that Poles are leaving. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 - 120 thousand. citizens of our country have left our homeland. What are you gonna do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many problems that have been mentioned here today. Minister, your card, your biography is impressive. And there's some naivety about you that I like. But the moment you said you were completely identifying with the law and justice policy, all of this was questioned by you. I would like to recall prof. Bronisław Geremek, the outstanding Polish foreign minister, who, when he organized a celebration of the day with the French Institute in 2003, devoted to Mickiewicz, said of Mickiewicz: Mickiewicz is one of the ideal fathers of the founders of a united Europe. This romantic national poet in an era prone to nationalism felt European and in a common Europe he saw the cultural and political future of his country. Today is poetry day. I don't know if you know that. One thing I want to say is that it is very important that you respect and accept this Europe. The fact that Polish parliamentarians, journalists, politicians, experts talk about Poland in Europe is not a report. This is a conversation with a partner that's closest to us. Europe is becoming our homeland. Let me tell you, there's a big expedition ahead of us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, soon, I hope, Europe will become a European thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Liroy-March, a non-attached Member. There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the development of the Polish economy, diversification of fuel supplies, in particular gas, is extremely important for the energy security of Poland. Gasport them plays a particular role in solving this problem. Lech Kaczyński. I would like to ask about the supply prospects of liquefied gas from the United States and the price policy in this regard. And one more question, Minister: Is it true that less than 2% GDP's defence expenditure is the result of faster GDP growth than expected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u95	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please answer: What must be done to ensure that there are no two speeds for the European Union? What is the Polish government doing about it? Can you be a first-rate partner in the European Union when you are in dispute and there is a treaty procedure under Article. 7 on the violation of the rule of law, does not participate in the European Union summits devoted to the further integration of the European Union within the euro area - Prime Minister Morawiecki, let me remind you, he left the previous summit and was not invited to the next one - in Poland the image of EU institutions is being created, destroying our sovereignty, the Prime Minister does not meet with the President of the European Council Donald Tusk despite his invitations, the MEPs of the PiS do not engage, do not cooperate with the Euro MPs of the Platform on the future financial perspective? Don't the answers to these questions make you think that the Polish government doesn't want to pursue Polish interests effectively in the European Union? And the United States? In the context of the IPN Act and the signals about blocking relations at the highest level, please state specifically when President Duda or Prime Minister Morawiecki will visit the White House. Please also provide a calendar of all meetings at the highest level in 2018, with whom, when the Prime Minister, the President, the Minister will meet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u98	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Minister, you are talking about Poland's involvement in relations with the countries of South America. What the Minister and the Government will do in this matter, e.g. With Brazil alone, the largest country in South America? The last high-level official meeting took place almost 10 years ago. Actions, not words, Minister. And one more thing. Listening here in front of me to the PiS messenger who said that not the visits of high officials, but... For example, in August last year there was an English woman in the Sejm, in Warsaw and in my city Koszalin, who spoke about how Poles in England represent Poland, how bad it is here. She thought it was medieval here, and she told me that Poland is a beautiful country - Warsaw, Koszalin, people - that it is clean. This is an example that comes from abroad from a normal English woman. Glory is that this may be the case and that this is how they speak of our beautiful country, our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u99	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u100	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! In 2011 it was opened for signature and in 2015 it was signed by Poland. Istanbul Convention, which is the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. This convention has been ratified by Poland, Minister, but this convention is not implemented by Poland. I remind you of the principles of this convention, that is to say, working to ensure that the perpetrators of domestic violence against women, because it is mainly women who are victims of violence, were pursued effectively to prevent domestic, economic, sexual, physical, mental violence, which is used as much as possible in their homes... so that the organizations that act against violence have the support of the state, so that economic violence is in Polish law at all, because it has not yet been found. That is why I have a question, Minister: At what stage of implementation of the Convention is Poland? 'Cause I'm afraid none. Isn't it also the responsibility of the Minister to make such important conventions by Poland not only formally signed, but also primarily implemented, applied? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u101	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There has been a process for more than two years, actually a migration crisis in Europe. This migration has its own distinctive features, such as, first, mass, second, aversion to integration, third, aversion to our values, and sometimes even contempt or targeting the rich countries of the European Union, or actually their social ones. Given that the humanitarian crisis in the Middle East can extend and that I expect further waves of illegal migrants in Europe, I have two questions for the government. Firstly, what measures can the government take to reduce migratory pressure on EU countries? Secondly, are there any chance that the government sees joint action in this area with other EU countries? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once the Polish opposition, and then the solidarity, was an inspiration for those fighting for human rights in many countries. I would like to ask the Minister what Polish diplomacy is doing today to support those fighting for human rights in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Vietnam, Azerbaijan, in all those countries where we can have some influence. Isn't it a bit like that in the case of these countries we wash our hands from fighting for human rights in these countries in the name of some minor such or other economic interests? Second thing. We don't want to be a second-speed country. If we do not want to be a second-speed country, let us enter the euro area, just as most of the countries of our region have already entered. And what about our commitment? Here's another thing. You want a strong, efficient, democratic, effective European Union, but the way to this is not by returning to a Europe of nations, to some pre-war League of Nations where every country could have vetoed, but by doing what the founding fathers have set out, that is, expanding and strengthening common European institutions such as the European Parliament. The European Parliament is a democratic institution. If the European Parliament, representing the citizens of Europe, has more rights, we will remove the democratic deficit in Europe and not how we will give veto rights to countries. The IPN Act. We had a very good relationship with Israel, with the United States, with Ukraine. This bill is ruining this relationship. I believe it's a task and a statutory Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you, so to speak, personal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a fight against this bill that ruined our relationship, not our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as you have been polite to note, more than 80% of Poles support Poland's membership of the European Union. I have to tell you, there's already a difference. No other minister of this government would have gone through that number. That's the difference between you and me, which is why it's all the more surprising that you've become the face of this New Zealand foreign policy that's trying to fight everyone. This is, of course, difficult for our country, which is why, Minister, I call on you to try to get away from this facility and think about Poland, not about PiS, but about Poland. Minister! Business. PiS lost the fight for posted workers, which means that several hundred thousand Poles, tens of thousands of companies will face a very difficult task of staying in European markets. What will you do to make it easier for them? What about the transport industry? That's another topic that's gonna be difficult. I am sorry to say that in terms of relations with Belarus, the Minister has not even been concerned about human rights, the rights of the Polish minority in Belarus or the democratisation of political life. This is an absolute change of vectors, and in my opinion it's a really bad change. The euro issue. What are you doing to bring us closer to the euro area, to the eurozone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The guarantee of our safety? Minister! The Weimar Triangle, Visegrad Group - unfortunately, bodies that have become highly facaded. What do you have to do to change that, to actually get what's been going on so far, which is good, consistent action in the interests of our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the institutions of the European Union, and especially in the European Commission, much attention is paid to the alleged problems of our country with respect to the rule of law, while critically assessing, among others. reforms introduced by the current government. Due to the fact that critical assessments are political in nature and do not address the substance of the problem, I would like to ask specific questions relating to the question of the attitude of the authorities of the Republic of Poland to compliance with EU law. What is the issue of implementing EU law in Poland against other Member States? How much financial penalties have been imposed on our country in connection with the timely implementation of European Union law? What is the situation in other countries of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u110	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I am pleased that you are restoring the tradition of being in the plenary room when you ask questions. I associate a minister who sat here in 2002 and was flooded with questions about our negotiations for accession to the European Union. The difference seems to be that at the moment he was responsible for bringing us into the European Union, and the team you represent is responsible for the risk of getting us out of this Union. Hence my questions. Minister! How do you view Poland's position in the European Union, bearing in mind the failure to vote on the President of the European Council by 27:1 votes, whether the failure on posted workers or the failure on the White Paper on unsuccessful attempts to prove that the proof of the destruction of the rule of law is not the initiation of a rule of law investigation procedure against Poland as the first country of the European Union, whether failure before the European Court of Justice, or endless failure in the European Parliament in debates on the violation of the law and the principles of democracy in our country, or whether the coming obvious failure in the debate on the future of the European Union, in which most want to strengthen the Community and Poland to strengthen the Member States at the expense of this Community? Finally, in light of these failures, I must ask: Do you consider it appropriate [[♪ The bell ♪]] 27,000 arrests. The three-and-a-half-month bonus you received? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u111	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! When the Minister was finishing his speech on a matter which concerned the rule of law and which threatened our country's consequences, I had the impression that you were presenting some alternative reality, such a class B science fiction film. It was only a short time before you and the other members of the PiS would get up and sing: Poles, nothing happened. The so-called so-called "PiS' government in Brussels, presented by the PiS government. The white book of kittens, as you can see, no one in the European capitals bought it, even the opposite, only caused confusion. All Polish friends in Europe today see that PiS tramples on the Polish constitution, that it tramples on Western European standards of the rule of law. And the Union is actually one step away from making the payment of aid conditional on compliance with these standards, which is actually not surprising. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What is your plan B? What is the government going to do if Polish citizens lose billions of euros from European, EU funds because of the PiS? What plan B has PiS to protect Poland from such a scenario in a situation where it can be seen on the palm of its hand that in Europe no one believes in the words of members of the PiS government anymore? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u113	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I would like to address you with such a practical, more lifelike question. Namely, in less than 3 months the World Football Championship will begin in Russia. In addition to many millions of Poles and, I think, billions of people around the world are going to watch this championship also some group, I think that not only small Polish fans who will be present at games and in Moscow, and in Kazan, and in Volgograd, and in the next, I hope, places. Hence my question: How is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs preparing for possible consular assistance in this area? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Following important decisions at the North Atlantic Summit in Warsaw in July 2016, we are slowly approaching the next summit that will take place in Brussels in July this year. Therefore, I would like to address the question to the Minister: What are the goals of Poland, which we are putting on the next summit, and how are we going to achieve or are we going to take action to achieve these goals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the state of construction or the implementation of reconstructions of facilities in Berlin, Vilnius and Minsk. No tender has been executed after more than 2 years of rule of law and justice. Moreover, the tender for the construction of the Berlin facility has already been cancelled, and in response to one of my interpelations, Minister Dziedziczak stated that you are looking for a formula for public-private partnership. We have recently heard that the Minister has, however, decided to build this facility. Well, of course, but we would like a clear declaration that it will be implemented in this term of office of the Sejm. You said that Minister Sikorski was not building any facilities, and he built the Consulate General in Lviv, revitalized the facilities in New York and Paris, and unfortunately nothing happened in the rule of law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Tomorrow we adopt a resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. The debate on this issue is still ahead of us today, but yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has clearly shown that Georgia joins our House, despite the many differences we have spoken here with one voice, all very much supported this resolution. Poles and Poland in Georgia enjoy similar and perhaps even greater sympathy. There is also a great deal going on in our relations, both in terms of political and cultural cooperation. A year of Polish culture in Georgia, the establishment of the Polish Archaeological Mission in Kutaisi, the creation of a Polish library in Tbilisi, concerts, exhibitions, various interesting meetings - a lot is really happening despite the very modest cast of the embassy. The question, Minister, and a big request by the way: When will we finally get the establishment of the Polish Institute in Tbilisi? This is a really very necessary institution, an entity that will work not only to promote Poland in Georgia, but also to extend its scope to neighbouring countries, Armenia, Azerbaijan. Minister, please respond in writing with your schedule. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Minister, after listening to today's exposé, I honestly say that I feel sorry for you. Exposé Minister for Foreign Affairs is one of the most important events in every parliament. Today even the piS jury in the Polish parliament was empty, let alone the diplomatic corps. And now the facts. You're afraid of linking the Structural Funds to the rule of law because you messed up a lot. White book - disaster. You said, and rightly, 87% Poles support membership of the European Union. This is the highest level in Europe. Polish diplomacy is also one of the oldest in Europe. Okay. You have to respect that. But President Duda is the one talking nonsense, comparing the European Union to the killer. That's not what you're saying, and another mom, ladies and gentlemen, is reality. For you, the European Union is an economic phenomenon, and that is not true. The European Union is more than that. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't understand this project, that's why you're so dangerous to our country. We're in a fight with everyone. We'll be out of this problem for years. I'm sorry to say, Minister, but you are such a fine diplomat, and you have become the mascot of this government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who can't do anything. Finally, what will you do with the conflict with Israel and the US if you do not withdraw from the risky provisions of the IPN Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u123	Thank you, sir, but you must leave now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u124	And last question: What will you do if, however, we have less money from the European Union, because it will be linked to the rule of law in a given country?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Please stick to the time limit. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Wojciech Ziamniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the materials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented at the meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, which I am pleased to be vice-president, it says: Polish and Polish affairs abroad are one of the priorities for both the highest representatives of the Polish state, the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as for the current government of the Republic of Poland and are fundamental to the Polish state's right, which is a fundamental part of it - this is a quote. In your speech you mentioned, among others. on the fact that in recent years three new consulates and consular departments have begun work at three newly established embassies, as well as on the amendment of the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on repatriation. Unfortunately, the new tasks associated with this were not supported by the strengthening of the consular service by new posts, especially in the case of institutions in the East and in the countries of economic emigration of Polish citizens. Also so-called. Polish funds under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been significantly reduced. In 2017, it was 21 million, and this year it is only 19 million. Therefore, I have a question: Is there a planned increase in the number of consular staff in these areas and an increase in expenditure on Polonia not only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget but also in the state budget implemented by the Senate of the Republic of Poland? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This year we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of Poland's ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights, as a result of which our country became a member of the Council of Europe and Polish citizens were given the opportunity to participate in proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. For a number of years, during which, surprisingly, our country was not accused of problems with the rule of law, the issue of enforcement by the Polish government of judgments of the Court remained a serious problem. In view of the above, Minister, I ask: What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Court's judgments since the establishment of the United Right Government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy is a special day and raised in the Polish Parliament. Today, with the rows of the diplomatic corps and the empty rows occupied by your colleagues in Law and Justice, shows how important you are to foreign policy, and I will even tell you how you are starting to be ashamed of it today. Unfortunately, and I say it with real sadness, this phobia of writing and creating everything again, from scratch, in ruins, unfortunately reached diplomacy. The former diplomats in their letter say that foreign policy of Poland goes from catastrophe to catastrophe. Poland is regularly criticized by allies and security guarantees have become conditional. Instead of being one of the leaders of the West, Poland becomes dependent on the support of smaller countries. The international position of Poland has been the worst since 1989. Of course, you'll wave your hand and say, "This is one of the opinions." This is one of the tens, hundreds of opinions that appear and the number of these voices is increasing. Diplomacy is art, and you, the state, are like an elephant in porcelain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u131	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform. There isn't. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. There isn't. Mr Wojciech Wilk. There isn't. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u132	Minister! You spoke about the importance of relations between the Member States of the European Union and our country. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is a member of the European Union and one of Poland's most important economic partners. You, Minister, have given him even one specific sentence in your speech, which I am very pleased with. I will quote them more or less: the Utrecht Conference is a forum for cooperation with the Netherlands. Minister, I deeply believe that you sincerely care about Poland's good relations with the Netherlands, but there is one thing I cannot understand: Why, then, could a group of Polish-Nederish friendships not be formed in the Polish Parliament for more than a year? Members from various parliamentary clubs already declared at the beginning of this term their willingness to cooperate and strengthen Polish-Nederish relations. Despite meeting all the criteria and regulatory conditions, there is still no agreement to set up such a group, the bilateral Polish-Nederish group. I am very sorry about this because I want this group to be formed, and I have been trying to do so since the beginning of my term of office. I hope things change. Minister! I have a specific question: Is such behavior and sending such signals to our friends, to our Dutch partners serving to strengthen cooperation between our countries, or not serving? As your declarations have to do with reality, to be evidently blocked by your party colleagues to create such an authentic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a friendly relationship between the Polish and Dutch parliaments? 'Cause these relationships are 100%. later translate into real economic, political, diplomatic and European relations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u134	And the last sentence. Currently, there are seventy-seven groups in Parliament. These groups have managed to form, and surprisingly, this one has not yet been able to create. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u135	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So far we have been Poland, as a country, an ambassador for the affairs of Eastern European countries in the European Union. We had a full ticket for this. It resulted from an effective process of integration with the European Union, as well as from Poland's strong position in the European Union. We have not been offended by others and have not offended our neighbours to build good, friendly relations with the countries of the Union. Today, when our reputation thanks to your misunderstood diplomacy was destroyed, Germany and Lithuania took the place of the Ukrainian ambassador and the leader of Ukrainian interests in the European Union. How are you going to change that? And how are you going to rebuild our position in the eyes of the citizens of Ukraine? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u137	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u138	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! In your speech you said that about 20 million of our compatriots or people with Polish roots live outside Poland. This means that outside Poland there are several million children or young people up to the age of 18. My question is: Why are children of Polish citizens living abroad treated in a selective manner? It is better to treat those children who are lucky and go to a Polish school created, I do not know, by embassies or by associations operating abroad, and worse those who do not have such happiness, because in the area where they live, there is no such school and they do not have the possibility to go to school. You bragged that at the President's initiative, 31 grand. children attending schools outside the country have received a school card. What about the few million children who don't get that ID because they don't have the ability to go to the Polish school? When they come to their homeland, they are treated worse, because they cannot benefit from a discount when they go to the museum or use public transport. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the Minister going to take the initiative in this matter and equalize children living outside Poland in their rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As we remember, in connection with important events in Poland, namely the global youth convention, Minister of Foreign Affairs Mariusz Błaszczak made a decision, maybe it was also the decision of the Management Board, to suspend the visa-free border traffic between the Kaliningrad region and the region of Warmia and Mazury and the Tricity. When this decision was made, it was reported that it was for a time that this movement would be restored after the end of this event. Unfortunately, later this decision was not changed and until today this border traffic is not functioning. Recently, I had the opportunity to meet with the inhabitants of Warmia and Mazury, with local government officials who stressed the need to start this border traffic due to economic, commercial and development needs. And there is indeed a expectation that someone will take the case. The Minister of Home Affairs has changed, we have a new minister, there is a new minister of foreign affairs, maybe it is worth listening to the voices of the inhabitants of the Warmia-Mazurskie and Tri-City and leaning on this matter, considering whether it is possible to restore this border traffic between the Kaliningrad region and the region of Warmia and Mazury, because it is very expected there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u141	Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The law, which was established in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gives the opportunity to fire all diplomats working abroad. HR checks the team where the former ambassador worked in Belgrade Andrzej Jasionowski. Then he caused an accident, after which the Serbs demanded that he return to Poland. That's what happened. Later in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs he was the Director General of Foreign Service and since 1 January 2018 he is again Ambassador, only in the Republic of Croatia. Why are people involved in car accidents, including alcohol, promoted to embassy positions? You're saying there must be people in diplomacy with flawless opinions and an impeccable past. Is that what a good change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u143	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to believe that what I want to say is that you have no knowledge, but I also believe that there will be an immediate reaction to this situation. Well, I'm thinking about the situation of manual control of competitions in your ministry. These are competitions related to the promotion of public diplomacy and development cooperation projects by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We know that the environments of Law and Justice are favored. I'm thinking here, for example. About Radio Maryja. I ask the Minister to respond, because you are aware that such practices are simply violations of the statutory principles of support for NGOs. But also the pressure of politicians on officials and the pressure of officials to do so is breaking the law. We can't let that happen. And I ask that you effectively eliminate these practices from the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u145	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During her speech, Mr Gosievska - I feel that as an accusation - she argued that Poles occupy important positions in the European institutions. For me, but for many Poles it is a cause for pride. It shows our strength, that they appreciate us. But above all it is in the interests of Poland and Poles. Today it is said that Donald Tusk convinced the British and that Poles would retain their rights on the Islands. Therefore, I have a question for you. Will the Minister conduct foreign policy in order to cooperate with Poles so that Poles win the competitions for the most important positions in European and international institutions? Or will there be further policies and accepted behaviours that lead to the cancellation of Poles from prestigious functions? For example, the Vice-President of the European Parliament is here. Is it something to be proud of about the fact that Poles take important positions? Will you support Poles in applying for important functions? And if it were up to you, what would be the outcome of the vote for the President of the Council - 28:0 or 27:1 anyway? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u147	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you two questions about recent events. The White Paper did not convince the countries of the European Union as Poland expected. At the same time, the deferral or rejection of the European Commission's recommendations to justice by the government does not give a chance to close the dispute with the European Union quickly. What diplomatic action does the Minister intend to take in this very difficult international situation? And second question. Recently we have seen an escalation of anti-Semitism in Poland, which is very harmful, among others. for our image in the world. What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including yourself, doing to stop this harmful phenomenon of anti-Semitism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u149	Thank you. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to say a few words about a group of guys here, but I need to start by not being specific, but by apologizing. I humbly ask you to forgive me that a little freaky will be the ballad that I'm going to give... So, guys around me are going around, which is what they're going to touch, and they're going to ruin. At home or at work, they stare at the ceiling, lead on the ledge with unpleasant eyes. On their lower foreheads, they get a terrible effort because one thought is on their mind, which I'll summarize: 'What else is there to screw up, gentlemen? What else would it The quoted words of Wojciech Młynarski's song best describe the current international policy of the government. Within two and a half years, you have destroyed the work of all your predecessors - presidents, governments, foreign ministers. Your actions contradict the principle of diplomacy - seek your friends close and your enemies far away. We have a good relationship with our neighbours bordering only the Baltic Sea. I'll also end with a quote: you chickens piss to drive, not politics to do. Especially foreign policy. You could say that for Marshal Józef Piłsudski. And the question is: Minister, when will the diplomatic institution in the capital of Mongolia Ulan Bator be established by the present government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u151	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. I can't see. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not the first time that government representatives have been heard, of course, that everything started in 2015. Before that there was no Poland, as a Prime Minister of Morawicki preached. I'm so surprised they're talking about you, Minister, that you're an intelligent man, and I believe that. Unfortunately, you're part of this rhetoric that's bullshit. I'm gonna bring up one piece of your speech. You said that Eastern policy is the most important aspect of Poland's foreign policy. I do not know if it is that Putin opens champagne on the Kremlin - whether it is this direction - or simply that you have argued Ukraine with Poland. Is Eastern politics just the Visegrad Group? Perhaps that's how you understand it? When Ukraine obtained its statehood in 1991, Poland recognized it first and was very well perceived. The relationship was good and getting better. Tonight because of your own phobias. You ruined it completely because of some gameplay. The previous minister, Waszczykowski, practiced some of his malice, unworthy foreign minister, unworthy of diplomacy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you really care about in Eastern politics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u153	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your speech, you stated that independent, democratic and stable Ukraine is, from a Polish point of view, an essential element of European order and security. Unfortunately, in practice, this declaration cannot be seen to be implemented. I have the impression that both Prime Minister Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki did not apply due weight to Polish-Ukrainian relations. This gap, and to put it simply, lack of future-oriented activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is often sought to fill local authorities through numerous initiatives of economic, scientific and cultural cooperation. For example: at the end of November ub. In Lublin a preliminary agreement was signed on the creation of a European Centre in Lublin with the participation of representatives of Polish, Ukrainian and French universities. I would like to ask the Minister whether such initiatives can count on the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because certainly regional cooperation is a very important element of the development of good Polish-Ukrainian relations, but not only, also good relations with our other partners. Can regional projects count on support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u156	Thank you very much, Marshal, for letting me ask you this question. Minister, this is about the Tri-marine initiative. I've been listening to what you've said, and that phrase has come up. This initiative has this hard core - over 100 defined projects. I'm sure it would be good for her to actually produce these projects. But the question is: What is the progress this year in terms of acceptance, the perception of this project in the European Commission, in general in Europe? Do we have any progress? You mentioned a fund for this initiative. Is this fund... When is this fund supposed to show up? Will the trail of this fund be in the submission of the European Union budget in May of this year? And the next question concerns the fact that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki was not invited to the summit of the euro area countries on Friday. This core, the solid core of the Union, will sit without us. In fact, I am not surprised, because the previous meeting ended with the fact that the Prime Minister had left for the PiS fee meeting and did not participate in it, and that Prime Minister Orbán was to represent us, who did not speak at all at the time. How do you interpret that? Are we gonna go back to that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the club discuss with the countries of the euro area or not? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u157	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u158	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I will talk about Polish-Israeli relations, because I am so convinced that the current government relations Poland - Israel is a pre-violent state. It started with the IPN Act, and it's getting worse. The Minister devoted three sentences to this matter in his exposé. In my opinion, this is far too little. Today's exposé and today's information by the Minister also prove that the PiS government does not see the great damage, these damage in terms of reputation, image of Poland and Poles. He also fails to see that the work for Polish-Jewish dialogue, in which people such as Władysław Bartoszewski participated, has been destroyed for decades. I have a question for the Minister: Why didn't the Minister effectively counter this situation with regard to the adoption of the IPN Act? After all, the Ministry you are directing had the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of February 2016, which spoke and warned about excessive interference in freedom of expression and also said that this amendment could weaken the Polish argument on the international stage. What can we do, Minister, to make this pre-op state change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u159	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I'm ordering a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 47 hrs 17 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. I ask the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the presidents of the clubs, the Members who spoke in today's debate. We take all these voices very carefully, as a contribution to defining the priorities of foreign policy, how to implement them, and questions as an expression of concern for the citizens of Poland, who make their demands through MEPs. A number of questions have been raised, some of which I responded to during my first speech following the speech of the club presidents. But there are still many specific questions. I would like to respond to some of them today and we will send you some answers as soon as possible. Mr Grzegorz Schetyna - these threads appeared in the statements of other Members, among others. Mr Grzegorz Długo - he asked about competitions in Europe, in the European Union, why Poles do not win. I would like to say that Poles run for elections to the European institutions and are also successful. Let me remind you that in March Ub. Mr Piotr Dmochowski-Lipski was elected as Executive Secretary of the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation, and in January this year Mr Paweł Pikus was elected member of the Administrative Board of the Agency for. Cooperation of Energy Regulators. The success of our candidates was preceded by intense campaigns in which diplomatic institutions were involved. Katarzyna Osos drew attention to a number of Poles who hold high positions: Donald Tusk, Mrs Bieńkowska and others. But I would like to say that these people owe these positions not to competitions, but to political decisions. They were directed either by the Polish authorities at that time, those who exercised power, either by the Civic Platform or as a result of agreements between states. These were political decisions, so it is difficult to compare these positions, where the substantive qualities of the candidate decide on winning the competition, with those where it is a political decision. The question asked by the president of Katarzyna Lubnauer was whether the current foreign policy of Poland was the beginning of polexit. Of course not. The answer is clear: membership in the European Union is crucial for Polish prosperity and for the security of Poland, for the position. I talked about it in my exposé. But this does not mean that we treat the European Union as an organisation without imperfection. We want it to change as we think it will be good for the Union and for our country. These national interests should be defended. This is not an egoistic approach, we want a better functioning Union that balances development differences between Member States. We want a competitive economic Union that is active in the neighbourhood. I would like to stress that we are demonstrating the need to increase the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process. This thread appeared repeatedly in the speech by Marcin Święcicki, in other speeches by representatives of the Platform. I would like to draw attention to a process that is taking place in the European Union. A few years ago, most of the political class in Poland was in favour of strengthening transnational institutions such as the European Commission. At that time, the paradigm dominated science that these institutions would defend the interests of the weaker countries in the long term. That is why we all in Poland thought, the whole political class, that these institutions should be supported. However, since around 2008, since the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon and the financial crisis, we have seen the role of supranational institutions changing. There's a science dispute here, too. The second position, realistic, unlike the liberal one, is that supranational institutions do not defend the interests of these weaker countries, but they are an instrument for achieving the interests of the strongest countries. There's a consensus here that the realists have more arguments to support their thesis. When we look at the role of the European Commission during the financial crisis in Greece, where it was an instrument of implementation in the hands of others, or the role of the European Commission in relations with Hungary, or finally when it comes to Article. 7, in my opinion, the European Commission does not have an autonomous role here, but does not defend these weaker countries, but is simply to discipline them. This results in a change of orientation in foreign policy, including the Law and Justice, in support of these intergovernmental elements, such as the European Parliament, which give rise to legitimacy, because we ourselves experience that we are not treated like other countries. Double standards are applied. In other words, this evolution in relation to these different supranational or intergovernmental institutions is the result of the change in these institutions itself. Katarzyna Lubnauer asked how the government intends to stop EU officials from linking payments from the EU budget with compliance with the rule of law. On 8 February, I met Commissioner Věra Jourova, who is responsible for justice. We've been discussing this. I also presented our rations to other Member States. The European Commission has the right to make various proposals, but it will be up to the Member States to decide on this. There are no treaty grounds for applying such a link. The methods of spending European funds should be transparent. There is no justification for introducing vague solutions. How can we measure the compatibility of some judicial system with European Union law? The White Paper shows that the same solutions as those introduced by Poland have existed for many years, always in other countries of the European Union. I would like to say - this is the result of this document - that in the Polish system judges are more independent than in other countries, therefore it would be difficult to apply these criteria here. There are also institutions that control the spending of EU funds, such as OLAF, i.e. the European Office for Foreign Affairs. Anti-fraud. We support this work because we believe that transparency should be promoted in this way when it comes to spending EU funds. Madam President Lubnauer's question on the crisis in Poland - Israel, i.e. Why don't we have an ambassador? No. Minister Waszczykowski also spoke about this. Mr Jacek Khodorowicz has completed his mission since 2012. The mission is scheduled to end this year, but nothing has changed. The successor is emerging. In any case, the facility operates continuously and efficiently, and Mr Jacek Chodorowicz represents our interests in Tel Aviv. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz asks if he claims that Poland has not secured its citizens in negotiations with Great Britain on brexit. No, the rights of Poles in the UK are fully secured. The government introduced a number of entries into the so-called. exit agreements to achieve this goal. Our vote was crucial in this regard. Poles retain access to the labour market, social services, education and health services. Their rights will also be protected by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which the United Kingdom has agreed to. Mr Grzegorz Długi asks what is the idea of fighting for the budget of the European Union for the government. Poland clearly sets out its position on the European Union budget within the European Union. We conduct intergovernmental consultations, including within the Visegrad Group. As I said in my exposé, we have similar interests. On 26 March, Commissioner of the European Union for the budget Günther Oettinger will come to Warsaw. He will meet in Parliament, including the building, at the joint meeting of the Commission: the European Union and Finance. I will also have the pleasure of meeting him in the building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will discuss this. During the visit, we will present Poland's priorities on this issue supported by solid arguments. It should also be remembered that the regulation on the multiannual financial framework is adopted unanimously, so no solution can be accepted without the consent of Poland or any other country. Mr Szłapka from Modernzny asks for Poland's position on membership in the euro area. I would say that this is not an end in itself, although, of course, it is an extremely important decision. In any case, the opinion of economists is divided. I would like to point to the opinion of those who claim to be present that there would be a risk of disturbance to the economy. I would like to remind you that now the Member States of the European Union, which have not adopted the euro, are developing faster than those of the euro area. That's a certain indicator, too. There are opinions that Poland has been through the financial crisis relatively calmly because it has not adopted the euro and was able to adapt its economy using the possibility of establishing the exchange rate. Our goal is to increase the potential and competitiveness of Poland, to reach the level and even to exceed the level of strong economies. I think that's what we're doing. The relative level of income in Poland increases, the competitiveness of the Polish economy increases. The question now is whether the possible adoption of the euro would improve this competitiveness and the good state of the Polish economy or not. Mr Grzegorz Długi asks if we have a blockade for positions in the European Union. I've already told you in part about the competitions. There is no blockade for higher posts in the Union. This year, Poles took the position of director of security policy and conflict prevention at the headquarters of the European External Action Service, and the position was very important for Poland. In recent years, we have seen an increase in the employment of Poles in the EU institutions. In 2012, nearly 2500 people were employed in the Union's structures, with 3,300 in 2017. Of course, there are such opinions - they have empirical confirmation - that Poles take on average lower positions because they later joined the European Union. In time, they'll be promoted, we hope. We want as many of them as possible in the highest positions. This is a difficult process, there are competitions. As you can see now, the situation is improving, so we hope it will continue to improve. Mrs Krynicka asks what is the issue of implementing EU law in Poland against other Member States. A reasonable question, after all, is spoken in connection with the article. 7 that Poland does not respect values, European law. No, Poland is taking many steps to implement European Union law on a timely basis. The reports published by the European Commission twice a year show the state of transposition of European Union law in the Union. The Commission has established that the deficit limit is 1%. Poland looks good, it is in the middle of the list of countries. For example, in the summer report in 2016, eight countries had a worse result than Poland, and last year 13 countries had a worse result than Poland. I'm not going to exchange them. I have a list of these countries. In other words, Poland is about in the middle, like other European countries. As regards the implementation of European Union law into the Polish system of law - this raises the question of whether they were imposed on our country and how much financial penalties were imposed in connection with the timely implementation of European Union law against other countries - I would like to stress that Poland has never paid a penalty. There are currently 13 such cases before the Court, none against Poland. I would like to add that on 25 January the Commission decided to bring a complaint against Poland due to the delay in the implementation of the Directive on collective management of copyrights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland is taking intensive action. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u161	If the Minister wishes to continue, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u162	May I continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u164	I have two options: either answer or say that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u165	I can make a suggestion, Minister. If you just think that you want to answer some of the questions in writing, please, and if you want to answer some of the questions orally, please, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u166	Then let me refer to these key points. I would like to say, to address the various problems. I made the answers in such a way that I started with the European Union. As far as the Union is concerned, there are, of course, bilateral issues, questions concerning Germany, security issues, relations with Ukraine, the Eastern Partnership. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, my staff and I will be preparing written answers to all the questions you have asked. I would therefore like to thank you warmly, although this is of course your role, for your perseverance. It's a big day for me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal, for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u168	1. When will there be a plan and timetable for rebuilding and setting up new consulates? 2. When will the process of getting rid of people discredited with cooperation with the authorities of the Polish People's Republic begin? The Minister has confidence in these people? You can get rid of them without waiting for a new bill. 3. When will there be a network of close coordination of negotiations at EU level with the Visegrad Group countries in diplomatic offices and headquarters? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u169	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Poland is a safe country to which tourists from different parts of the world are happy to come and in which they feel good. Poland has been sitting since 1 January this year. in the United Nations Security Council as its permanent member for the years 2018 and 2019. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What are the benefits of sitting on the UN Security Council and how does this affect Poland's foreign policy? What are the plans for Poland's first monthly presidency of the UN Security Council, which will start on 1 May this year.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u170	A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws, - amending the Telecommunications Law Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2345 and 2363 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on a draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia (prints Nos 2328 and 2366). I ask Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia, print Nos 2328 and 2366. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading on 6 March. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal at its meeting on 20 March, which was yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! It is our reason for developing and strengthening friendship and cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Georgia, which is why I am personally pleased that we are unanimous on cooperation with Georgia. We show at least partially, and it does not often happen to us that national politics, read: national business, is a national matter, not a political one. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u172	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the applicants or the club?]] On behalf of the club, Member, Club. [[The club. And on behalf of the applicants at the end, right? Did...]] Yes. [[Okay.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a great honour and pleasure for me to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. First of all, I would like to thank Marshal Kuchciński for his enormous commitment to this positive initiative. It is a logical consequence of December ub. r. Strategic Partnership Agreements between Marshal of the Polish Parliament, Marshal of the Senate and President of the Georgian Parliament. I am sure that the assembly will contribute to strengthening institutional cooperation between our parliaments. Furthermore, it will allow us to further emphasise the unchanging support for Georgia's territorial integrity, European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of Georgian society and the pro-Western policy of the authorities in Tbilisi. This could also be an additional platform for work and dialogue for the implementation of systemic reforms in Georgia, including challenges in the area of democracy, political pluralism and the functioning of the justice system. I am convinced, as President of the Polish-Georgia Parliamentary Group, that this initiative, as in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will meet with the full support of the High House and we will see this first meeting soon, following the procedure, after the Senate. High Izbo! I ask for support, and then for joint, division of work for even better, although sometimes it is difficult to imagine that relations with Georgia can be better, even stronger cooperation between parliaments, institutions of the Polish state, Georgian, but also, and perhaps above all, between our societies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u174	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! The establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia is a very important stage in our bilateral relations. It is a sign that we are able to work together with our friends from Georgia and that we want to deepen our cooperation on many levels. We've been supporting the Georgians for many years. The beginnings of our friendship go back to the times of the Second Republic of Poland, when in 1920 the Polish-Georgian alliance was negotiated, whose advocate was Józef Piłsudski. However, due to the attack of the USSR on Georgia in 1921 it failed. We did not recognise the annexation as a state and worked with the Georgian emigration government. Thanks to our good relations at that time we accepted many Georgians, soldiers of the Georgian army, who joined the Polish army. As a sign of these actions, streets named after Marshal Piłsudski can still be found in Georgia. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, when Georgians could once again enjoy an independent state, we resumed our cooperation. Poland also started at that time a new stage of its history, also as a sovereign state, without the control of the USSR. We were in favour of extending the North Atlantic Pact to Georgia. During the difficult times of the war on South Ossetia in 2008, we supported Georgians in many fields, among others. through the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 2 September 2008, in which we expressed solidarity with the Georgian people and deep sympathy to all the victims of this conflict, or a joint declaration by the leaders of Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia condemning the actions of the Russian Federation's armed forces against the sovereign and independent Georgian state. Georgia is a very important member of the Eastern Partnership, which Poland is the main initiator and coordinator. It will be the third country of this organisation, after Ukraine and Moldova, cooperating with Poland at the highest parliamentary level. Thanks to the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia, we will be able to strengthen Poland's relations with Georgia as well as Georgia's relations with the European Union as a whole. This will be an incentive for our economic cooperation, a major element of which has been in existence since 2007. The Polish-Georgia Intergovernmental Commission on Economic cooperation. We hope that thanks to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia, we will be able to strengthen even more the friendship that these two nations have. Therefore, as a Civic Platform club, we will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is important to show countries that have been so hurt recently by history, by the latest history, so affected by aggression and with such great hope that they will one day be in this western part of Europe, with such hope that they will someday be part of the Western world... It is important to tell them: yes, we want to be with you, we want to be with you at this difficult time - at a difficult time, because they have difficult accession negotiations in NATO, because there is still a conflict there. The idea of creating such a special inter-parliamental institution between Georgia and Poland is not a new idea. Such teams already exist, such groups already exist, and I wholeheartedly support the creation of such a group between Poland and Georgia. I think this is also a good opportunity to reflect on the quality of functioning of the current groups. We have a Polish-Moldovski band. Did this team meet at least once during this term? Does this team, this inter-committal group, work? It is always necessary to think when setting up such groups, whether we can manage this hope and this community show a little longer than for one or two terms. You have to think about making these gestures last a little longer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Jaros is not here. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u179	Dear Marshal, We want to make it very clear at this point and at this time that Georgia has friends who are keenly interested in further development of bilateral relations, strengthening our common security and effective efforts to restore the territorial integrity of the Georgian state. Friends of vital interest in these areas of activity Georgia has in all parliamentary clubs. We believe that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia will be another pillar of the development of bilateral relations, but also an important support for the European, Euro-Atlantic aspirations of the Georgian state. The history of our nations, our countries, is unique. Our relationship dates back to 1918, when an independent Georgian state was formed on the rubble of the Russian empire, and after years of captivity the independence of the Republic was reborn. We want a clear message from the Polish Sejm: Poland supported and supported Georgia's membership in the European Union and Georgia's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. We believe that the formula of the parliamentary assembly will also be the factor that will stimulate our cooperation. The Civic Platform supports this initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Georgia is covered by Polish development aid. I would like to ask what forms of support, apart from just such forms as the Polish Institute, we can still give Georgia - our friend and, above all, the country whose citizens love Poland so deeply that they can learn to speak our language practically fluently within 3 years. Hence my question again: What other forms of aid, apart from development aid, can we send to Georgia so that our cooperation becomes wider and deeper, more effective, especially for the Georgian side? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u182	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Małgorzata Gosievska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u183	Thank you very much. The parliamentary assembly, High Izbo, is a very special form of bilateral relations. So far, our Parliament has decided to strengthen relations with the parliaments of Lithuania, Ukraine and Moldova. In the case of Georgia, one could in fact be surprised at why it is only now, why it is only today. After all, we have so many years of close relationship, at every level, in every field. The draft resolution itself is simple and did not require discussion, nor were there any questions in this regard, but maybe I will give the High House some information on how it will look like in the coming days, how we are planning further work, what this assembly will look like at all. Because the statute provides - a statute that has already been agreed with the Georgian party - that there will be 10 parliamentarians from the Republic of Poland, seven MEPs and three senators, and 10 parliamentarians from the Georgian parliament. The assembly body, similar to similar assemblies already set up, will be the bureau, which will coordinate the activities of the assembly in the period between plenary sessions. It will include four members of the assembly, two from each side, the chairman of the delegation and his deputy from the Polish and Georgian sides. The assembly itself will be held at plenary sessions convened once a year, consecutively in the Republic of Poland and Georgia. There is no longer Mr Appeal, but I would like to assure you that - as I know the intensity of parliamentary relations and the activity of bilateral groups - I am convinced that these works will actually be real and very active, and with great commitment from each side. Other people, parliamentarians on the one hand and on the other hand, representatives of the state bodies of each party, diplomatic services, but also experts and persons involved in the Polish-Georgian relations, will be able to participate in the plenary sessions themselves as guests. In fact, it will be in our hands, and knowing the favor and commitment of Marshal Kuchciński, I am sure that we will also be able to count on the support of the Sejm Bureau in this work. The next stage after the resolution by the High House will be the Senate. A parallel resolution will be adopted by the Georgian Parliament. As far as I know, it'll be April. Then we can proceed with the formation of delegations on both sides and the signing of the statutes. It is planned, not yet fully confirmed, the visit of Marshal Kuchciński in Georgia in a short time. This is going to be a great time to sign the charter and formally get to work. On behalf of the applicants, but also - I think it will not be an abuse, if I say so - of the parliamentarians from the Polish-Georgia parliamentary group and many, many of Georgia's friends, and Georgians I would like to ask the High House to make a positive reference, already in the form of tomorrow's vote, to this resolution and to the full involvement of the clubs in the establishment of this assembly. Mr Pyzik asked about our possible additional activity in supporting Georgia. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could say more about this, but there are no longer any representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is clear, however, that Georgia can always count on us in terms of its European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations. We should insist strongly on opening the way for Georgia, not closing the door, but on the contrary, because Georgians are really Europeans, they feel European, and that is the only direction for them, that is their conviction. Anyone who's been to Georgia will probably confirm that. It would certainly be important to set up a Polish Institute. This has been mentioned by the Member, and so have I. I hope that the Minister will take this case very seriously, because the Caucasus is a place where this institute should have existed long ago. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took very intensive action to establish such an institute some time ago. It was frozen at a certain time, but I am convinced that the new Minister will approach this subject with due commitment and that there will be resources. And the possibilities are huge. Let me just mention that it was the Georgian party that decided to announce this year's Polish culture. We are preparing to open the Polish Archaeological Mission in Kutaisi. This is a really great event, because our archaeologists will have very wide opportunities to conduct interesting excavations, and in parallel - which I am very much seeking - will also look at the workplaces that were in Georgia after World War II, where our soldiers, soldiers of the National Army from Vilnius were held. It's about camp in Kutaisi. There is work ahead of us, but work is extremely important in the context of history, as well as discovering certain, yet universally unknown things. This mission will be helpful. In parallel preparations are underway for opening the Polish library in Tbilisi, there are a number of exhibitions, cultural events. This is where it is asked that the facility, our embassy, be expanded personnelly, and ultimately, that there finally be an institute. This will be a very important step in our relations, also in supporting Georgia, because through the institute very, very many different joint projects can be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u184	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle regarding the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. In Poland, Georgia's fascination with culture, history, traditions and Georgian landscapes has always been strongly rooted. We should remember our long friendship with the Georgian people, but we should also look to the future. Georgia is one of our close allies. Both our nations have experienced Russia's aggression in the past. Today we also view Russia as a geopolitical threat. In the past, we have made a clear stand for the inviolability of Georgian independence, and President Lech Kaczyński still functions as a hero in the Georgian consciousness today. Close relations and closer contacts are in the interest of both Poland and Georgia. In order to develop and strengthen friendship and cooperation, the Sejm and the Senate should establish a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u186	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia, in print Nos 2328 and 2366. The draft resolution concerns the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia in order to develop and strengthen friendship and mutual cooperation. According to the projectors, the Parliamentary Assembly will be tasked with examining and adopting common positions on matters of interest to the Polish Parliament and the Senate. Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on 20 March introduced only a few stylistic amendments to the draft resolution. At this point we need to say a few words about the past of Polish-Georgian cooperation. During the 20th interwar period several dozen Georgians arrived in Polish military schools, who were then in the ranks of the Polish Army. They were Georgian soldiers to contract, which in 1925 were 80, and in the following years their number grew. They fought for Poland and died for Poland, although the contracts did not oblige them to do so. They participated in the September campaign or the Warsaw Uprising. A large part of them were captured by German or Soviet soldiers, three Georgian soldiers were also killed in Katyn: Major Mamalaga, Capt. Schirtladze and Capt. They're Russians. It is also important to mention the Promethean movement, which was an expression of opposition by the nations against the force-forced Soviet system of the USSR. This movement was also co-operated and supported in Poland. An important moment in Georgia's history was 2003. Then, peacefully, President Eduardo Szewardnadze was resigned, which was called the Rose Revolution. Thus, it has been shown that there is no room in Georgia for non-democratic actions, such as forgery of the results of parliamentary elections. The president was then Micheil Saakashvili, then awarded the Great Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland for outstanding merits in developing cooperation between the Polish Republic and Poland. As vice-president of the Polish-Georgia Parliamentary Group and participant in the observation mission of the Polish Sejm and Senate during the parliamentary elections in Georgia in autumn 2016, I am in favour of the idea of establishing a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. Taking into account the long history of Polish-Georgian cooperation and mutual friendship, Modern is in favour of this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u187	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws (Prints No 2225 and 2368). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u188	Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! This is another EU directive - a significant, huge, very technical, complex directive - on which in recent days both the subcommittee and the Committee on Public Finance have come to work, the PSD2 directive which we are implementing in our draft law. It is about payment services and the famous printing no. 2225, i.e. the draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws together with draft implementing acts. In general, this is an EU directive that we need to implement and which will fundamentally change the payment market will change the landscape of financial services. Of course, questions arise, as well as many doubts are raised by analysts, financial market experts, who are wondering whether this will really stimulate the development of this type of payment service or whether it will be a source of conflict, and some are even talking about chaos. Undoubtedly, the intentions are noble, because the point is, it can be said, more consumer protection in this market, more access to this market. The PSD2 Directive extends the scope of the PSD, but of course includes new services, new payment service providers and extends the scope of existing services. It can be said that it extends significantly the possibility of accessing payment accounts. In this connection, a number of changes are also made in other laws, including in the field of telecommunications, and it is possible to say that access to this financial cake, over which banks and companies of various types ruled in an undivided manner, but controlled by banking entities, so-called. FinTechom, or modern financial institutions with modern technological expression. It can be said that it is important not to overstep in these acts. There are some concerns about the banking sector in Poland, about the consequences of such liberalisation of this type of activity, whether there is a threat of a larger scale of fraud in terms of ease of access to the account, login, bank password, or whether it will not be a problem to determine possible thefts due to the ease of logging into the client's account by using these logins and passwords and to what extent it will affect security. Of course, the Union is still working on this, as the so-called issues will still be taken into account. technical standards, technical regulations for these operations, but we have a duty, so we took this effort and managed to improve the original project a little bit more at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance yesterday. There have also been a lot of legislative remarks and these changes have also been taken into account. It seems to us that in a relatively short time we have prepared as safe as possible, in our view, the provisions of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws, print No 2225. As I stressed at the first reading of this draft law, its aim is to align Polish rules on the way in which payment services are provided with the requirements of Directive (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 called the PSD Directive2. This bill is a comprehensive amendment of the Payment Services Act of 19 August 2011. The European Commission, through the PSD2 Directive, extends the scope of the previous PSD to new services and payment service providers and extends the scope of existing services. These are payment instruments issued by payment service providers who do not maintain a payment service user account, which allows access to payment accounts. PSD2 amends the telecoms exemption by limiting it to a micro-payment for digital services and covers transactions with third countries when only one of the payment service providers is in the territory of the European Union. The PSD2 introduces improved security measures to be implemented by all payment service providers, including banks. This draft law, which implements the PSD2, aims to lay down rules that eliminate identified regulatory gaps so as to ensure greater legal transparency and consistent application of the legislative framework across the European Union. The Act is intended to provide equivalent conditions for action to promote new payment methods among a wide range of users and to ensure a high level of consumer protection when using these payment services throughout the European Union. This should improve the efficiency of the whole payment system and create a wider range of payment services and transparency while enhancing consumer confidence in the harmonised payment market. During a few hours of discussion, the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance discussed in detail the various articles of the Act in question with the participation of the Ministry's representative. 20 amendments were also tabled during the debate, as the rapporteur said. Some of them clarified certain provisions, some of which were legislative in nature and thus gave greater clarity to certain provisions in the articles. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supported all amendments at the level of work in the Committee on Public Finance and will vote in favour of the bill amending the Payment Services Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present our opinion on the Act amending the Payment Services Act. I'm not going to repeat all the obvious things my predecessors said. I wanted to focus within my time on the doubts we have about this law, and in particular about the way the Sejm carried it out. During my first reading, also acting on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I noted the very long period since the introduction of the PSD2 Directive until now. That's over two years. 2 years, and we are talking about services that have changed significantly over these 2 years, and in these 2 years new, previously unknown services have emerged, we are talking about technical fittings, in which very large changes have been made over the last 2 years. I mentioned that the average smartphone we had on us two years ago looked completely different than it looks today, and it certainly had completely different functions than it does today. Minister Skiba Then he replied that these 2 years the Ministry of Finance devoted itself to a very intensive and broad public consultation that this draft law was very widely and in detail consulted and only these changes were introduced. As a result, we note with great surprise that this law, which for two years has been consulted by the Ministry of Finance in such a way in depth with the industry, did not satisfy the industry to the end, because at the meeting of the Finance Committee we learned that there are numerous comments to it, that on this law, which is very extensive, which concerns consumer rights so much, people who use payment services, were debated in the subcommittee for less than 3 hours and in the Finance Commission for less than 2 hours. So we have this collision, that on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance needs 2 years to prepare a bill that implements the PSD2 directive, and on the other hand, the Sejm passes this project instantly so as not to ask too many questions and so that it is as it pleases. I would like to draw Mr Nobleman's attention to the fact that the PiS did not support all the amendments. The opposition's amendments were rejected. It was with great surprise that I accepted during the work of the Committee on Public Finance that the amendments tabled by the legislators were also rejected, the amendments which were about to make certain provisions more transparent. This reminds me of what has been going on in this Sejm for two years, that is, this roller - the government has submitted a bill, so the committee and the Sejm have a duty without blinking an eye in such a version to accept it. We are very anxious to see what has happened. When this law came to the Sejm, I was talking about the fact that we are looking with great hope at the fact that we will finally implement the PSD2 directive, which is very pro-consumer, but as far as the issue of payment charges is concerned, we have doubts as to whether this law properly introduces the directive and whether it certainly does not jeopardise the interests of consumers and does not affect the principle of competitiveness. But what's most important about this is our suspension. Indeed, this draft law implements most of the rules referred to in the EU directive, yet we are concerned about the way in which it is debated and the pace and many errors. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, amendments which were tabled by the Members of the PiS, I believe, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, as usual, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've had some serious mistakes. When you're wrong about the article you're referring to, and the Sejm's legislators have to correct the amendments on an ongoing basis when numbers change, so these are mistakes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u193	Mr President, unfortunately, time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u194	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I've noticed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I always say briefly, it is, of course, a government bill amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the implementation of the PSD2 Directive as a legal basis for the creation of a single payment market in the European Union, based on safe and more innovative payment services throughout the European Union. Kukiz Club15 has no objections on this draft law and does not make any comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This law is indeed the implementation of the European Union's PSD2 Directive into Polish law. The PSD2 Directive is the implementation into the legal system that will include the system for the operation of new services and new technologies that have emerged in the payment services market in recent years, including the integration of the European payment market. It is also a formal introduction to this market of new providers of these services, thus extending, improving the rules and opportunities to compete, but also making payments using new technologies safer, better safeguarding the interests of the customers who use them, and thus protecting consumers is one of the main objectives of this directive. It is, of course, about the fintechs mentioned here, which are becoming more and more popular on the Internet, and so far have not been covered by the system. Of course, yesterday's discussion in the committee essentially focused on a few points, apart from legislative amendments, some adopted, some others - no. Industry representatives have quite important and, I think, legitimate reservations about the fact that in the whole law, instead of the word "automation," the word "authorization" was adopted, which in the banking world means two completely different activities. Authentication is a situation where the customer uses the correct PIN code, and authorisation is consent to the transaction. The biggest discussion was that service providers were to bear the burden of proving that the payment transaction had been authorized and correctly recorded in the system, it is precisely the authorized or certified word. What does that mean? This means that we will expect banks and other financial service providers to prove to the bank in case of payment problems that the payment has been authorised, i.e. that the customer has agreed to the payment or use its login. This will in principle be difficult for the payment provider to prove and it seems appropriate to claim that, however, the idea of authentication should be used, so that the bank has received a properly signed transfer. Of course, you can argue, but in fact the security of your personal data, PIN, your account data should also belong to your client. It is certainly worth returning to this issue at the Senate stage, once again discussing, considering how, on the one hand, to safeguard the interests of customers using electronic payments, and on the other hand, to expect them to properly secure their data, not to transmit this data to third parties in an unauthorized manner when they do not want them to be used against them. There was also a mention of this... The entry of new services and new technologies into the market in the case of our country will be authorized by KNF. It has a deadline for this, there has been a discussion as to whether this deadline is sufficient. KNF expected that non-compliance within the deadline of consent would not automatically imply consent. The industry has said that when new technologies are introduced, time is of great importance and KNF has to deal with their proposals in due time. In fact, living in today's modern technology world, it is difficult not to agree that time plays a key role. Like I said, the Modern Club will support this bill because it's worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] new technologies in the system so that customers can use them more safely than they currently do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u199	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government bill amending the Payment Services Act, i.e. prints No 2225 and 2368. The draft law was examined at meetings of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions and the Committee on Public Finance. I will remind you that the project concerns the implementation of EU law, i.e. the so-called directives. PSD2 of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market. The project eliminates regulatory gaps in existing legislation, introduces new players in the payment services market, new technologies, harmonises operating conditions and normalizes the payment market across the European Union. The aim of the project is therefore to make cross-border payments in a way that is primarily safe for consumers in all Member States. The service directory has been extended by two types of services, i.e. about the payment initiation service and the information access service. Both services are merely ancillary, informational or checking service and do not directly concern the holding and transfer of funds. It also introduces a new entity, so-called. a small payment institution. This is a rather interesting subject. It can be run by small and medium-sized enterprises alongside other economic activities. These small payment institutions will only be able to carry out their activities in Poland once certain prudential requirements have been met, once they have been registered with the Financial Supervision Authority, and their turnover must not exceed EUR 1,5 million per month. In the course of the work of the subcommittee and the committee, a number of changes of an editorial, detailed and legislative nature have been introduced in the project, as well as substantive changes. Among the latter, i.e. substantive changes, are among others. those relating to the regulation of payment charges carried out by a telecommunications trader, the introduction of detailed rules for the Financial Supervision Commission in the event of a decision ordering the disposal of shares or shares of a national payment institution, as well as the possibility of imposing fines in the event of failure to order orders, the regulation of interpretation issues issued by the Financial Supervision Commission, the establishment of legal bases for making information covered by banking and professional secrecy available, the transmission by payment service providers of information necessary for the conduct of an online browser by KNF, and the exemption of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from certain obligations arising from the Act and the introduction of references directly to the provisions of the delegated Regulation of the European Commission. I would also like to point out that, in the course of the work on the project, divergences have not been overcome, among others. with laws governing the principles of entrepreneurship, the Freedom of Business Act or the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The government side, i.e. the applicants, has committed themselves to regulating these issues at the stage of work in the Senate. In conclusion, it should be noted that the bill should meet the objective of ensuring better protection for payers, increasing consumer rights in turnover within the European Union and even payments in currencies outside the European Union. The Act will necessarily increase competition in the payment market and will generally foster the development of non-cash trading, new technologies and the further development of the information society. My club supports this project and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u201	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry to take the floor, but my point is that here at some point there was a very negative sound, and they said that for two years the ministry wasn't doing anything. However, I wanted to stand here in defence of my colleagues who work as officials dedicated to Poland, because I would not agree with what you said. These regulations were adopted by the European Parliament 2 years ago, the Directive has been in force since 1 January 2018 and the main, core implementing act, which implements practically all this diametric change, enters into force on 14 September 2019 and will deal with safe communication and strong authentication. So believe me, my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, who have worked there for many years, are doing hard work. During these two years, among others. there have been several rounds of arrangements. In the first round was reported among others. 500 comments. It was about 500 technical comments, and you know that, because you worked on the committee, these are very often complicated technical comments. In the second round, 300 comments were made. So it really was a very hard job, for which I sincerely thank them, and I really wish there was not such a negative response that I felt was created. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your work in committee, especially Mr Szewczak, for his work in the subcommittee and Mr Nobleman for his work in the finance committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 12 h 18 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Payment Services Act and some other laws (prints no. 1606 and 2369). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on amending the Act on Payment Services and some other laws from printing No 1606. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading on 7 June 2017. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 18 July 2017 and 20 March 2018, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the presidential draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws, print No 1606. The purpose of this draft law is to amend the rules governing payment transactions made using an incorrect unique identifier. The proposed rules are intended to enable the effective recovery of the amounts of payment transactions carried out using incorrect payment account numbers which the payers have failed to recover as a result of their supplier's actions. The bill is a partial implementation into the Polish legal order in the field of art. 88 provisions of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market, hereinafter referred to as the PSD Directive2. The purpose of the PSD2 Directive is to equip the payment service provider with the power to provide the payer with information enabling him to make a legal claim in order to recover the amount of the payment transaction executed using a erroneous unique identifier, where the payee does not voluntarily surrender that amount and to provide a legal basis for such action in cooperation with the payer's supplier with the payee. The President of the Republic of Poland, the financial spokesman, presented the proposal for the above amendments. The project was the subject of consultation with the Minister of Finance, the President of the National Bank of Poland, the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Union of Polish Banks before the final wording was established. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice voted in favour of this draft law with two legislative amendments. I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to declare that in plenary the club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the fact that this point is immediately after the previous one, which concerned the same subject, I would first like to refer to the Minister's speech. I was misunderstood. Mr. Marshal, I'm not using correction mode. It's certainly not that I judge the Ministry of Finance well. The comparison of these 2 years of work on the bill on payment services with less than 5 hours of work in the Sejm - that was the essence. It wasn't an accusation to the Ministry of Finance, it was more a charge to what legislative roller passes through the Sejm. You talked about 500 comments in the first phase of the consultation, 300 in the second phase of the consultation, and we've worked it all over with understanding within five hours. You were at the finance committee meeting yesterday. This isn't a legislative job. Truly, every reasonable person will be afraid that with such a way of working on any proverbial law or magazine, they may appear several times in one project. My comments relate mainly to how we work here, because at the moment we are talking about printing no. 1606 dated 22 May 2017. I do not really understand this: if there is a directive, if work is in progress in the Ministry of Finance, the President of the Republic of Poland is reporting on such a detailed matter, then it is carried out urgently after 3 quarters of lying in a Seym freezer, it is suddenly carried out even faster than the government law. What is it? What's wrong with that? What is wrong with this - aside from my parliamentary experience, the oldest employees of the Sejm Chancellery do not remember the situation that happened yesterday at the meeting of the finance committee - that theoretically a banal, technical, legislative amendment, the self-correction tabled by Minister Dera nobody wants to take over so that the process will continue more efficiently? It's a miracle. For years, the Seym has customarily developed mechanisms for speeding up work where it is possible and does not create danger, and suddenly it turns out that members of the coalition, the ruling party, are afraid to sign such an amendment. This creates some concern on our side, not those rules that are pro-consumer. We're wondering what's going on. This roller is not an abortion, it is not a state relationship - the Church and other things that electrify the media. These are specific interesting people who use payment services, and interesting institutions that make these services available, and we're making some superexpress faster than pendolino. So the question is, why are we doing such a superexpress? I would like to express this concern on the part of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! The purpose of the presidential bill amending the Payment Services Act, print No. 1606, is to enable citizens to recover the money transferred to the wrongly indicated recipient account effectively. Even some of us may have had to transfer money in our lives, not to the bill number we should have, or not to the recipient we should have. By October 2011, both banks and SKOKs carrying out the transfer ordered by the client were required to verify the correctness not only of the account number to which the payment is to be made but also of the name of the payee, i.e. the name of the payee, or the name of the company for which the payment is made. This allowed it to be verified whether the funds actually flowed to the relevant account belonging to the payee of the payment indicated in the transfer. According to those rules, when a bank or SKOK executed a transaction despite the non-compliance of these data, the client was able to effectively recover its funds from the entity that made the payment, that is, the bank or other financial institution. The situation changed in the end of 2011 following the entry into force of another Payment Services Act, which introduced the principle that a payment transaction can only be executed on the basis of an account number, regardless of any other data given to the payee, including the name, name or company name. This law was the implementation of EU law into Polish law. However, it seems that the overzealousness of the Polish legislator, rather than the literally read EU directive itself, led to the situation that the transferors today do not have to verify whether the bill actually indicated in the transfer order belongs to the person, the company indicated in the order as the recipient. In the light of the law in force, the effectiveness of the recovery of money today depends essentially on the will of the person or company to whom the money will be transferred wrongly. The bank can only apply to the payee for a refund of the wrong amount, and the one he sent can only count on the good will of the recipient. The presidential proposal envisages two changes to improve the situation of such distracted payers. Firstly, it is intended to protect the personal data of persons who decide to voluntarily return the funds so that their sensitive data are not visible when the funds are returned. Secondly, it introduces an exception to the obligation of banking secrecy where the recipient of the transfer does not wish to pay voluntarily the funds that have affected his account and were not due to him so that the person ordering the transfer could already bring an action to the court in order to recover his funds. The thing seems natural. In order to claim their misplaced money, the payers need to know who to sue for reimbursement, who to turn to. In this respect, the exemption from this banking secret is worth considering, probably justified. It is important to enable citizens to investigate misplaced funds, but I have the impression that a slightly different solution could have been proposed that would have solved the problem more effectively. The point is that we could delimit those payments where there is no designated recipient. Then, in fact, the bank would have to accept the payment and could have made the transfer in spite of the lack of data, i.e. if it had no customer at all, only the account number. The name, the name or the name of the company to which the transfer is directed, but at the moment... we could leave this verification. It seems to me that the directive implemented in 2011 left such a freedom to national legislation that it could be left in a situation where the data are entered into the transfer, but in fact the bank would wrongly verify and reject the transfer. Otherwise, we expose ourselves to unnecessary claims, unnecessary legal actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All of this could have been avoided if the Directive had been properly implemented in 2011. Today, in the Senate, it is worth to bend over to consider whether or not this solution is ultimately implemented in a different way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u211	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the presidential bill amending the Act on Payment Services, Print No. 1606 and 2369. The draft law was examined at the first reading at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, then at the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions and again at the Committee on Public Finance. Several changes of an editorial and order nature were introduced during the work. The draft law generally concerns the partial implementation of the PSD2 Directive and is a complement to the government's proposal for a comprehensive alignment with EU law, on which we have just concluded the debate. The draft law amends the rules on payment transactions executed using an incorrect unique identifier. They are intended to enable the effective recovery of the amounts of transactions carried out using incorrect payment account numbers which the payers have failed to recover as a result of their supplier's actions. According to Art. A payment order shall be deemed to have been executed to the payee if it has been executed in accordance with a unique identifier, i.e. the customer's account number. If the unique identifier provided by the customer is incorrect, the supplier shall not be liable for failure to comply with or inappropriate execution of the payment transaction. Although the customer is still entitled to an investigation of his claims or claims by court, personal data of the payee of the transfer are required to file a legal action which, in the current legal state, cannot be disclosed or made available. The PSD2 Directive removes these inconveniences and concludes that, where it is not possible to collect cash, the payer's payment service provider shall provide the payer, upon written request, with all the information available to the payer's payment service provider relevant for him to make a legal claim to recover the money. The Presidential bill introduces solutions that are currently foreseen in the PSD2 Directive, and to this end payment service providers will be required to operate an interest-free, technical so-called. a refund account - a special purpose account only for the purpose of returning funds to the payer. The reimbursement will not be made directly to the payer's payment account or to the payer's supplier's account, which will ensure the protection of personal data. The bill assumes a 3-month period of vacathio legis. This will enable the institutions to prepare for the application of the proposed solutions. My club, the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, welcomes this project and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u213	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I only have two questions, very short. The first concerns the formula. But wasn't it enough to strengthen the powers of the clients in such a way that they could claim without even knowing the person or institution... of the person who was transferred in an incorrect manner so that it was as little as possible, I would say, cumbersome and as little as necessary to change the law? That's the first thing. On the other hand, the second question concerns costs, because, of course, in connection with the formula of the new service, banks will probably introduce new charges for these refunds. Do you have any knowledge of how these charges can evolve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was inspired to ask the question by Mr Urbaniak from the Civic Platform. Mr Urbaniak said that there was an extraordinary situation at the committee meeting related to the alleged lack of willingness to take over the amendments from the Minister from the President's chambers. That was not the case, sir. The amendments were tabled not by Members, but by the Minister because he had such a title. There was doubt for a moment whether the amendment should be taken over by the Members, or whether it was the President's responsibility, and the President reported it. [[Was she taken over? She wasn't taken over.]] Because there was no formal need, sir, and please do not create a strange situation around it. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u217	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u218	On the other hand, on 18 July that year, the first reading at the committee meeting took place, 15 September was already the government's position on this bill, but at the same time the government was working on a parallel bill under the same title. And that's why there's a question of whether to integrate these two projects and report one project. Finally, the concept of these two solutions, two projects and both were successful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've been accepted. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, it was a procedural question for me.]] [[No, no, to the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u219	Good. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera. [[It's a weird situation...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll answer those questions that were just asked. Wasn't it enough to strengthen here a person who, without personal data, would be able to obtain these funds? No, that is not possible, because in the current legal state it was so that these people wrote to the President, describing their gehenna, how they were wrong and trying to get the money, and they simply came into contact with such records because of the protection of personal data of bank account owners that banks could not provide this information. This procedure had to take place before the court, only the court had to go to the banks, obtain it by formal means, it took a long time. And what was the main problem of these people? Well, we're talking in this case, if someone gets money into their account, about unsubstantiated enrichment. We have a situation here that if someone didn't have that awareness, they didn't know, because these things happened too, and he used that money, he could always defend himself effectively, that he had used it in good faith, because he thought it was some kind of money transfer that was supposed to go to him, and he was expecting it, so without any embarrassment he spent that money. Then he effectively defended himself in court in such a way that he used it in good faith, and the person who transferred the money was not able to get it. The essence of these changes is precisely that, while protecting personal data, the bank assumes responsibility by creating this technical account. This person will not get the information, this information will be from the bank, but the key thing is this, and this is the most important record in this bill that the bank is obliged to inform the owner of this account, which the money has received by mistake, that it is not his money. This person will automatically not be able to defend herself in court, claiming that she used it in good faith, because good faith is eliminated by notification from the bank: Honourable Mr. Owner, it's not your money, someone paid by mistake. Now we have two attitudes. The first one, such a human, honest one: someone paid in, I know it's not my money, I'm wired back and there's no point. Here, this procedure does not include such persons at all. On the other hand, if such a person does not know or want to do so, the procedure will be initiated, which will be effective and citizen-friendly. I would like to say that we consulted this project at the stage of drafting these regulations with the Polish Bank Association. Everyone said yes, it's a good solution. These solutions, which are proposed here as regards the banking side, are accepted by them. They say that such cases will happen because these mistakes happen, but each of these banks says that it is better for them than for them to enter into such a dispute where they appear as a party and have to share data, they have to go to court. This is much more efficient, safer and from a cost point of view will not affect the owners, bank account holders, so that there will be no higher fees here. That's the kind of assurance we had at this stage. So that's one answer right away to these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal will only say I'm letting go.]] Well, thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws (prints No 2229 and No 2363). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on amending the telecoms law and certain other laws of the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, following its first reading, considered on 6 February and 20 March and asked the High House to adopt this project as proposed in the Seym Paper No 2363. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u223	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are debating today, the law amending the telecoms law and several related laws, introduces a number of solutions to this law, which could be called primarily pro-consumer ones. Market for telecommunications services is a specific market with thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of small customers on the one hand and large economic operators on the other. By force, the relations between the parties, although de iure is equal, are, in fact, inclined towards the service provider, hence the need to legally guarantee the rights of consumers, the rights of millions of ordinary Poles. Changes in this direction for example to clarify the information obligations of telecommunications operators, introduce a new form of contract, document form, and incorporation. It has already appeared in the Civil Code, now it will be precisely described in the Telecommunications Law in relation to contracts for the provision of such services. Precise information obligations are introduced for traders, service providers so that consumers have all the information necessary to make reasonable decisions on the conclusion, amendment or termination of the contract. We are ordering the form of the contract and subsequent amendments to the contract. The original text of the draft introduces the principle that any changes to the contract are to be concluded in the same form as the original agreement. We often deal with the situation, we know it from experience or personal experience, or even as Members of the electoral intervention, that sometimes it happens that especially older people, maybe worse hearing, make some modifications over the phone, whether they conclude a new contract for the provision of services from the telecommunications area, and then, when the bill comes, it is a surprise that conditions turn out to be different than they imagined. Secure it if someone doesn't want it, if they'd just like it. in writing - that is the consumer's decision - to conclude such an agreement, so that subsequent changes are also made in writing, although, of course, the decision, as we say, is still on the consumer's side. On the other hand, if someone wants to make it more comfortable, to do it over the phone or over the Internet, they can choose to do it in such a form, make a contract and then change it in such a form later. The Act also amends the Crisis Management Act. It introduces an obligation to notify by texting. Recently, last summer, when we had a tragic storm, we saw how important the system of universal notification is, not the system in which someone has to register somewhere specially, enter into some database, on a list - such systems operate in different places in Poland - but such that everyone in the area of danger who has a mobile phone, and in present times almost everyone already has it, such a notification, e.g. They'll get a text, it'll be delivered. Finally, a change that protects the consumer's interests again is a change in premium services, often very expensive texts. There are activities here at least on the border of ethics. For example, often children have mobile phones, they get some text message, they text him back, and it turns out that they have already made a contract, and this text cost them PLN 5, 7, 10, 20. We introduce the principle that the consumer may enter into a contract to set a certain monthly limit on premium service expenditure and, above all, what is most important, that there is also a certain default limit if the contract does not refer to it or if there was no such decision by the consumer in this case. This is a limit of 35 PLN, which means no more will be spent on this kind of service. This is particularly important for subscription services, because this causes that sometimes a much higher bill can be generated for a month, and the possibility to find out about it at all and possibly to terminate such a contract occurs when the bill is already coming to payment. Here we introduce this limit, which will give the consumer safety and not put him at an excessive cost. I would like to make a few amendments on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In fact, these amendments are quite minor, but still improving the wording of the law. For example, during the work of the committee, the vacathio legis was extended to 6 months, the general vacathio legis for the whole law. It seems appropriate to make an exception to this provision for, for example, the elimination of one of the amicable dispute resolution methods where these proceedings cannot last more than 3 months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it certainly won't last six months. I hereby make these amendments. And I ask you on behalf of the PiS Club to support the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u225	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u226	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Recently, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about Poland's need to move from paper to digital Poland. He said that it was a change of thinking that this is a new approach to creating reality around us and that, in general, functioning or acting in accordance with this principle is supposed to bring tangible benefits to citizens and businesses, i.e. to provide convenience or faster and cheaper procedures for dealing with different issues. However, the introduction of a number of provisions in this amendment to the telecoms law law, you can say, is action not according to paperless rules, just papermore, that is, more paper, more spruce and more cards that will unfortunately be filled with barrels of ink, which will be used to print these cards. Currently, when concluding contracts in writing, annexes to them may be communicated to the customer in electronic form, e.g. to the e-mail address indicated. This includes: rules of services provided, price lists or promotional regulations. Following the introduction of the proposals submitted by the government, the operator will be obliged to print and hand over several dozen pages of paper to the customer, even if the customer wishes the operator to send him this information in electronic form. Such provisions about the need to print up to 50 pages of text I don't think they correspond to what happens in the 21st century, in the digital reality. Now another question. Today's regulations say that a customer can change a written contract in time, among others. a telephone call, and after it has been completed, immediately use the services provided. Following the introduction of the provisions contained in this Act, the contract concluded in writing cannot be amended in such a way, i.e. by means of distance communication, only in the same way as the contract was concluded. It means that it's not a facilitation, it's more of a obstruction of all these processes. Following an amendment to any amendment of the agreement consisting in, for example, a change of tariff from one in which, for example, The fee for data transmission was charged for each unit of transmitted data, at least for 100 kB, for one in which data packages are included in the price, even if counted in GB, cannot be allowed - after entering these records - using the telephone, calling the hotline, because this possibility has been excluded. And here's the question: should this be the case for citizens, entrepreneurs, should this be more comfortable or faster and cheaper to do things? He seems to me, and I'm even convinced he doesn't. The equally controversial issue concerns the possibility for the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to impose fines in respect of breaches of obligations identified as a result of controls. Just a few months ago Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that entrepreneurs would have easier. We have heard about the introduction of a business facilitation package. However, this proposal for a law breaks the principle that penalties are imposed on operators only after the inspection procedure, when UKE's recommendations are not implemented. This means that the UKE President will be able to impose penalties on operators immediately despite the recommendation of follow-up recommendations - and that is why there are audit recommendations. Is this the case, then, to make it easier for entrepreneurs and to create better conditions for them to act? These are rather oppressive methods, not facilitations. If penalties are to be imposed on those who do not comply with the law, then when infringements of the controlled entity are repetitive. These are our doubts. We do not question the question that solutions related, among others. with restrictions on so-called. Premium SMS are actions that go in the right direction, are actions that will protect subscribers, but this proposal to amend the bill has so many weaknesses that we have prepared for it [[♪ The bell ♪]] seven amendments. Of course, our support for this project depends on whether these amendments are adopted. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am placing an amendment to this bill on the hands of the Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u227	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you, Minister, for being here. That means you're serious about the case. However, I must say that I am so sorry about this telecoms law bill. I have only been sitting in this House for two years, a little over two years, but I have already learned something such that, as the ruling party has a majority in this House, i.e. 237 Members, it will not be here in this House, in this Chamber, discussion, there will be no granting the Civic Platform, Kukiz.15, PSL or Modern Right, because it cannot be that they have come up with something good. There's just no discussion. I'll take it, you can say, I'm okay with it, 'cause I have to. There is no such discussion, but you will admit that President Horała also said that the work in the subcommittee looked very good, culturally. We have submitted - and we as opposition, and the social side - a number of comments, amendments. You, Minister, have said almost every time: Okay, we'll look into it. Okay, we'll check it out, we'll consult. Every time. We have shown good will, because in the subcommittee this law has basically passed with only one amendment - not counting the legislative amendments - the president as regards the vacathio legis, while we left the rest to you with the hope that you will report these amendments at second reading, among others. when it comes to paperless, that it will be your amendments, that it will be good and that it will be voted out. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. As my predecessor said, we're going, at least in the case of certain elements, this way papermore. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that if a subscriber makes a contract in the living room - as we said in the committee - he wants to touch the phone, watch it and conclude it in the living room, and at the same time does not want to receive a whole stack of documents, 50 pages of regulations, price tags, no one knows what else and some flyers, unfortunately there is no possibility. And yet we reported that it could be done, sent in electronic form, even given on the record, but already in electronic form. It didn't work. Another thing is, I also reported this in the subcommittee, that if information related to the company changes - it is the share capital, fax number, anything else - today, if someone has signed a contract in the living room, and for example the share capital of the company has changed, to all those who have signed the contract in the living room, will be sent by post in paper form. It's nonsense. Nonsense, if we keep saying that we are moving from paper to digital Poland. Next thing you know, it's about this warning system. There was a proposal from the social side to make it on a seeding basis - information goes faster and hits. The other thing is that the bill says that subscribers will receive this information. On the other hand, I have informed the Minister that subscribers are not users. People from abroad, even Poles who live permanently in the UK or Ireland, speak Polish, come to us for holidays, use roam like at home their phones, i.e. they have unlimited access to the phone, to the network at no extra charge in the European Union, and sit for example. for a week in Poland and at the moment We're ignoring them. They will not get information about the threat because they are not subscribers to the Polish network. They're users because they're on our territory at the moment, but unfortunately we're ignoring them. There have been reports, Minister, a number of these amendments. What did we hear last night? Almost every amendment of the Ministry was negative. I'm sorry about that, but on the other hand, I'm okay with it. There have been democratic elections, this is what it looks like, but it is regrettable that there is no discussion in this House. I was also going to make a number of amendments, but I'm actually applying the rule. Paperless. If my previous speaker has tabled amendments, I no longer need to, although I know how this will end: only Mr Horala's amendments will be voted in favour tomorrow. But I'm gonna go hard in that direction, that the less paper, the better. We are going to change in some way this Telecommunications Law, although it seems to me that - as the previous speaker said - at some point, especially when it comes to vacathio legis, there will be some strange situations that will hiccup us out there. I haven't decided how I'm gonna recommend it to the club yet. We will not be opposed because we wait long for the telecoms law bill, but because nothing has been heard from the public or the opposition, I hesitate to recommend stopping. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u230	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, there is a problem with this law, because as far as good intentions can be understood, for example when it comes to premium services, the implementation of this law can be said to be a bit as usual. 'Cause I'm really wondering how many trees you're gonna have to cut down to print this is all about paper. Did you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that when a man gets these documents in his hand, the first thing he's gonna do is probably either lose them sooner or later, or he's gonna throw them right in the trash, and in fact, he's gonna have even less of those things because he might have it on his e-mail. You can always find it on an e-mail, and not necessarily in a stack of papers. Here the honourable speakers have already spoken a lot about the comments to this project, so I will not refer to it here again. Our support for this law is also dependent on the adoption of the amendments prepared by the honourable Member, Mr Marchewka, but let us not be deluded: if they are adopted, it will be some event here on the scale of this House, although, as we know, hope is dying last. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u231	Thank you. Please take the floor... Oh, I'm sorry, Mr Jarubas made his statement in writing. So we move on to asking questions. Is there any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House who would like to enroll for questioning? I can't see. I'm closing the list. As your first question, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u232	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the public consultation process, particular attention was paid to organisations involved in charity activities, the fact that the introduction of this premium service limit would limit the possibility of such foundations, among others. The Siepomaga.pl Foundation pointed this out, because people who want to help people who need financial support for treatment can do so on the basis of sending a text that costs 2 PLN, and often these people send many such texts, just to help those in need. Is it possible, then, that the Ministry is considering putting in place such records in the future, so that those organisations that act benevolently, which by means of SMS can help people who are seriously ill, may be excluded [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this limit of 35 PLN? Is this considered, because of course the idea... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u233	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Maciej Masłowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna go back a little bit to my club performance. I'll ask the Minister two questions. First. If we can no longer go this way paperless, then whether, in the case of this information about threats, the Ministry will look at the problem again and change the provisions of the Act so that the users of mobile networks in Poland are informed about emergency situations, among others. in the form of a social-proposed seedling, who's within the reach of which BTS? And the second question may be less substantive. Minister, if you said we'd look at the individual cases you've been reporting, the problems, why didn't you look at them? After all, as far as this paperless is concerned, it was entirely justified. And let's go towards modernity, that first, electronic form, second, paper form as an option. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u235	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u236	Telecommunications law, as the name says, assumes the use of new technologies. Meanwhile, every paper sends us back to technology as old as possible. I'd like to ask you about the paperwork. What's the point? You know perfectly well that the younger the generation, the more reluctant it is to refer to these long tutorials or already there are tutorials needed for how to read this information. So what's the point? Should our Telecommunications Law be obsolete in this respect? I will ask you very much to clarify this matter. She's extremely important. If we make the law, it should be modern. If it is to be modern, it is to refer to new technologies and not to old ones, so minimize what we all don't like - very long instructors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u237	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation of Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the committee members, the committee members, very warmly for their work on this project. With regard to the questions that were also presented in the club speeches, I would like to say once again clearly: this sounds very nice... But I keep reminding you that this law introduces three possibilities for concluding a contract: in paper, electronic and documentary form, i.e. even by texting, and certainly by e-mail. Therefore, this law is not obsolete - it is the answer to Mrs Fabisiak's question - and this law we want to equalise the opportunities of both parties: the consumer and the telecommunications trader. Once again, I stress this: the principle that we are introducing is that, firstly, the telecommunications operator does not even have to offer it in paper form, can offer one of these three forms or each of these three forms, but to choose a subscriber. This is very important. This subscriber will decide in what form he wants to conclude the contract, and indeed only in one case, only in the event of the conclusion of the contract, if it is a paper form, the telecommunications operator will be required to provide in the same form as the contract, regulations and price list. Rules and price list. And that's it. This is based on the experience and conclusions of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection's practice. This regulation aims to protect this weaker side. But really, first of all, any changes to this agreement... Further, if a subscriber wishes all changes to be sent to him in electronic form, he may provide an e-mail address. I understand that this is a problem all the time, but in my opinion, I'm going to repeat it again, the problem - I think, and I'm even convinced, I don't think it's excessive. When asked why we didn't bend over... We leaned down. For example, on this issue, the spread you have raised seems to me to be almost certain that the amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club will be exactly as you wish. Maybe not all our slopes were in line with the intentions and expectations of the Member, but at least this was one thing for sure. The same applies to information on share capital. Maybe not the same, but I just want to say that when it comes to share capital information, it's not like again that you'll have to send papers every time, because if there's an electronic address in the contract, you can send it. As far as premium limits are concerned, in answer to Mr Carrot's question, no, we do not foresee the solution that you were talking about for two reasons. The first reason is that raising this threshold is absolutely to be easy and will be easy. You can always raise this threshold at the request of the subscriber. On the other hand, the introduction of this solution, which you have said, although the intentions seem very right, would lead to the fact that it would be difficult for us to check whether or not there are some stragglers behind it, unfortunately. It would be a gateway that would deny the idea of sealing it in order to protect the consumer. I think these are all the questions that have emerged. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u239	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the law improves the functioning of the telecommunications market and clarifies the provisions relating to its participants. It also includes solutions to improve the operation of the telecoms regulator - the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. One of the most important changes is the introduction of a new system for alerting citizens to threats that could cause a crisis in a given area. It will allow you to send short text messages to all subscribers in a specific area with a threat warning. This information is to be prepared by the Government Security Center. This will significantly improve the safety of Polish residents. The RCB will be able to benefit from the immediate and free assistance of all network operators with subscribers on the site. But it's not the only change. Others include increased protection against telecommunications abuse using high-charge numbers. In order to improve safety, operators or companies using their services will be subject to new obligations, in particular information, in order to clearly inform the customer of the service providers of the increased fee and the suppliers of the additional service. This also involves the commissioning of additional tools for the blockhouse of unwanted services with high charges. The Act will also serve to organise suppliers: it will also prohibit the provision of services on the market with an increased fee not included in the register of services maintained by the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. With the new rules, local authorities will have easier access to services supporting the distribution of free Internet, possibly lower prices than the market price. Finally, it is worth stressing the introduction by the law of a new reserved form of contract for the provision of publicly available telecommunications services, provided for by the provisions of the revised Civil Code - a document form - that means that the contract for the provision of telecommunications services will now be possible in writing - e.g. in the customer service office, and also remotely - e.g. by SMS, e-mail, telephone or qualified e-signatures. This will all contribute significantly to the development of the digital society in our country. The PSL Club will support the solutions introduced by the novel, which in our opinion are a consequence of civilization development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u241	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws (Prints 2155 and 2345). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft amendment to the Prison Service Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that the presentation of government in its content is primarily intended to lead to the establishment of a specialised institution of the Prison Service. This submission also includes provisions on the recruitment for studies, qualification procedures, recruitment to the Prison Service of future staff of this service, the entire training cycle. There was also a need to amend the provisions of the Law on Higher Education. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has appointed an emergency subcommittee to consider this project. Nine substantive amendments and 13 legislative amendments were introduced during the work of this subcommittee. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as a whole, adopted the subcommittee's report. I move that the High House adopt the draft in print 2345. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u243	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Daniel Milewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u244	Dear Marshal! High Seym! This is the second debate in this Chamber on a government bill to reform the system of training and professional improvement of Prison Service officers. As has already been noted, this project was addressed to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We set up a subcommittee for this purpose, and yesterday at the committee meeting we asked the High Sejm to pass this law. That is the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We fully support the introduction of a new recruitment model for the Prison Service based on clear criteria. We want to create the conditions for direct recruitment of some of the candidates for officers. We also support the new staff training mechanism based on the academic model. We are in favour of the government's proposal to create a new organizational unit in the Prison Service - its own university adapted to the needs of the penitentiary system. We support these solutions because we are able to improve qualifications within a single industry university. It is desirable that state services be prepared in a uniform and coordinated manner. We are in favour of changes in the organisation and methodology of vocational training, for setting clear paths for career promotion and job change, and for introducing an effective system of professional improvement, which will finally have a unified form. These solutions set out the requirements for training in different bodies and the obligation to pass a certain degree exam, before which an official must undergo vocational training. It all leads to the professionalization of the Prison Service. As Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, we support the idea of creating a university that has the chance to become a precursor to research into the widely understood penitentiary work, has the ambition to create a true elite of this profession in Poland and to enable it to improve its professional skills. In this way we will have candidates to work in the Prison Service trained several times better than at the moment, which in our opinion will translate directly into the quality of the system, reducing the number of return to crime, better rehabilitation, and better prevention. This will also develop elements of alternative measures against penalties, testing measures. These arguments, as well as the arguments which were put forward in this Chamber at first reading, in the committee and subcommittees which fell from the mouth of experts, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Prison Service, allow us, Members of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, to vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u245	Thank you. Mr Szczerba from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u246	High Izbo! Minister! Our club, the Civic Platform Club, has a negative assessment of this bill. The university under the Minister of Justice, the University of Prison Service, is not the solution to all the problems of this service. As of 31 December 2017, there were nearly 74 000 deprived of freedom. persons. Polish Prison Service is struggling with many problems. These problems are of all kinds. These are personal issues, personnel issues, statistical issues that are alarming: one educator per 40 prisoners, one psychologist per 200 prisoners, 3 m per prisoner, cases of inhuman treatment, one hour walk, more and more shared, Minister, employment. You're trying to artificially overwhelm the statistics on the prisoners' work. Suicide, prison health, which doesn't work, professional burnout - these are the problems of the Prison Service. What's the situation? Here's the situation. There are very serious reservations of the academic community to this project, to the establishment of a resort university according to Soviet designs. Every resort has its own school. Firstly, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland expressed a negative opinion about this project. As part of this opinion, the Rectors' Conference draws attention to the need for employment in the Prison Service of people with different expertise depending on their tasks. Such graduates are provided by the Prison Service with civil universities, various courses of study: rehabilitation, criminal studies, legal and psychological courses. Graduates of these courses should find a job in the Prison Service. There are prisoners with various intellectual, physical disabilities, in prisons there are mothers with children. One higher education institution in general will not meet the expectations of prisoners. The Conference of Rectors also points out that the establishment of such a university may lead to a lack of equal status in the case of civil university graduates and newly established uniformed university graduates. I would also like to point out that in this law there is no connection between the Central Prison Service Training Centre, which exists and operates, which also received support in 2013 and 2015 under the Norwegian programme, with this designed university. I draw attention to the fact that there is no confirmed evidence that the justice department has done any work to implement an alternative solution, an alternative path leading to the education of competent personnel for prison by creating an appropriate course of study in one of the existing universities. Furthermore, the General Council of Science and Higher Education states that this work should be stopped due to the forthcoming revision of the Law on Higher Education. We will therefore not support this draft law. We are not in favour of seeking savings in the Prison Service itself at the expense of employees. We do not want to liquidate 14 arrests and prisons, which Minister Jak announced, foretold the Ministry of Justice. We are in favour of European education, using the best civilian universities to provide personnel for the Prison Service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u247	Now I ask that Mrs Barbara Chrobak speak from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Few people realize that the Prison Service is the third largest uniform service in Poland. After 1989, she was treated as a stepmother. The result of this is a continuing collapse. This applies not only to infrastructure, in-kind expenditure, but also primarily to staff and pay aspects. In my club's opinion, Prison Service officers should make more money. It is necessary to allocate further resources to increase the competitiveness of their salaries. It is good that the government adopted last year a programme of modernisation of services, including this extremely important for the security of Poles of the service - Prison Service. While I am on the modernisation agenda, I will ask the Minister, although perhaps it is more a question addressed to the Prime Minister, what about the modernisation of the prosecutor's office, which is waiting for a whole bunch of prosecutors, especially officials and service workers, whose wages are now hungry and lower than those of Ladybugs' employees. I would like to remind you of one of the slogans of our October protest: "There is no VAT without a secretariat, without a prosecutor's office. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Returning to the Prison Service, investments in this service - I am particularly pleased that the authors of the project saw this - should be investments in people, in the Prison Service staff. Therefore, a new chapter is due to be included in the Act - Education of Prison Service officers and employees. It is especially pleased that the authors have noticed that prison services are not only officers but also civil servants. In our view, the law will increase transparency in the recruitment process to the Prison Service, raise the level of education and standardise the qualifications of employees, and will therefore be an important part of the process of modernising and professionalising the Prison Service. In prison, specialist knowledge is required in view of the need for multi-directional training that takes into account the aspect of preparation for service in uniform formation. It's hard to get the right skills for so-called. civil universities. Prison Service officers are often people who have completed rehabilitation in the social departments of the university. None of the Polish universities carrying out training on key courses for prisons, including rehabilitation, security or criminology, simultaneously equips graduates with specific competences specific to the Prison Service officers and resulting from the paramilitary character of this formation. Currently conducted in the Prison Service, vocational training for officers, petty officers and ensigns shall take place without significant involvement of external experts. The establishment of a new university will therefore be a breakthrough in shaping professional staff of officers and employees of the Prison Service. The Kukiz Club15 says yes to the University of Prison Service, for further modernisation of this extremely important uniform formation, for investment in people, in their education and, in the wake of education, above all in the competitiveness of wages, which should be increased. Poles, public officials who serve the state should earn more. As a Kukiz club15, we support this project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u249	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join us in asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was provoked to ask a question by my club friend Barbara Chrobak. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, I was in Koszalin for the 100th anniversary of the Prison Service. That's where I found out that... I would like to ask the Minister if it is true that the 2018 budget has run out of money to raise the prison service. The officers asked me about it, and I know they're doing a good job, protecting us from the bad guys who're sitting on that side of the wall. These officers were educated, doing their job well, so they should get proper apanasia for it. It is likely that the bill will be amended, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there's gonna be money for the raises. I'd like to know if it's really... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u251	Thank you. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u252	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In answer to the Member's question, I must say immediately that since the Government of the United Right has come to power, there have been increases in the Prison Service every year. Earlier these increases over the eight years of our predecessors' governments - I must be honest - were only once, and in a much more modest amount. In addition, as Mrs Chrobak rightly mentioned, we are the first government to have introduced a programme to modernise this service after 1989, despite the fact that other services, which are also military or paramilitary, as we might say in our case, have undergone many such modernisation programmes. Therefore, such information is false. In addition, in response to the opposition Member's doubts, I could say for a very long time why it is exactly different from what the Member is saying, but maybe I can tell you why we are doing this. We are doing this because we want to change the old PRL style of education, the style which is based on the fact that we have mini-training, which is that older workers pass on knowledge to younger people, and we want to replace - within the same means - this professional, old style of training with a modern model based on a higher education school of penitentiary, that is, science, which will contain all the elements important from the point of view of the training of the person serving in the penitentiary system: from safety, criminology, victimology and forensics to rehabilitation and all the teachings that will be useful in working with the prisoners. We are therefore replacing the old, inefficient model with a modern model of education, which - I am convinced - will also affect the future that the quality of staff will be better, and if the quality of staff is better, then the return to crime will be less and there will be less unpleasant events that unfortunately take place behind these governments and have taken place in previous governments, in all European countries, because they are prisons. That is why I am convinced that we must simply start from scratch building solid foundations based on a school that will pass on complementary, broad knowledge to people who will serve the country, usually in this case, throughout their working lives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u253	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask the floor of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The argument put forward by the Member of the largest opposition club regarding the fact that this is the case, not another situation in the Prison Service, that there is such a state of health care that there is one educator per 40 prisoners, that for the purposes of 3 m2 per prisoner, just proves that since 1989 no government team has carried out a reform of the Prison Service. I say this, sir, from a professional autopsy. I have known prisons, prisons in Poland since 1973, since the prison in Wrocław on ul. Klekkowska, after the Opolskie Strzelka, Lubliniec, Tuchów, Załęże, Medyka, Uherce and Nisko. You say that especially in this south-eastern Poland, arrests are being eliminated. That's where the worst conditions are. This is the Austrian model of the Prison Service, the judiciary, prisons in which there were small arrests at the courts that did not meet any European standards. Hence the initiative, which is now being taken, that there is a programme of modernisation of the Prison Service, the university, are clear opportunities for career promotion. The Central Prison Service Training Centre in Kalisz will continue to serve to improve the qualifications of the Prison Service staff, those who actually carry out this service, because the tasks in the penitentiary system are changing, there are new types of crime. There should also be another method of preventive impact on the prisoner at the time of imprisonment. All that is the intention of the current justice department is reflected in this legislative initiative, because we need to build that from the ground up, we must carry out proper recruitment for this service, which has not yet taken place. I think it is absolutely important to support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u255	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u256	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! By speaking from this stand on 6 February 2018 on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats, I announced my willingness to work on the Government's submission of the Prison Service and to amend some other laws. The PSL and ED Club is not opposed to any solutions designed in any way to contribute either to development, modernisation or to strengthen a vibrant organisation in the service of the security of citizens and the state. We agree that the service serving the Polish state is among others. Prison Service, whose operation is based to the highest extent on a human factor. However, as experience shows, the human factor itself, without proper education and material preparation, is only a part of the functioning of each service. Therefore, it is good that an initiative has been taken to set up a higher education institution for its own staff at the level of higher education in the first and second levels. According to the analysis, the mere fact of acquiring persons with a higher education who are graduates of civil higher education did not pass the exam, but became a prosthetic complement to the staff of this service. In this day and age, when in every area of social life, technological development and new technologies can be seen often galloping progress, it is difficult to leave such an important element of the Polish justice system to people comprehensively, substantively unprepared and often accidental. Widely understood and widely understood rehabilitation cannot under any circumstances be based on the physical isolation of those convicted from the rest of society without continuous, organic work with these people. I'm talking about initiating a social re-adaptation of convicted persons. Therefore, the transfer of the current, often scattered model of training of officers and future officers to the ad hoc needs of specific penitentiaries to a centralised, uniform system should be regarded as necessary and rational of the academic model. The debate at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights expressed concern for the quality of the training of the Prison Service staff and confirmed the validity of my position in the debate on amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Taking with understanding the government's intentions as a valid and high level of rationality and considering the need to reform the model of training of the Prison Service officers to date, it is impossible to deny the right to submit the report of the committee, which will also be reflected in the vote of our club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws following the presentation of the Commission's report (prints 2155 and 2345). At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights adopted a government bill amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws, introducing only minor legislative and substantive amendments to it. The key assumptions of the amendment remain unchanged. During the first reading of the procedated project, the Posel Club Modern attention was paid to the shortcomings of the proposed solutions and asked a number of questions. We asked, among other things, on what basis the projector states so radically that the previous method of training in prison service is old and archaic. We asked a question about the effect of the new regulation for people who are educated in fields such as penitentiary, rehabilitation or security and criminology, and what chance these people will have of working in prison if SW graduates suddenly appear on the labour market. We asked about the further fate of the Central Prison Service Training Centre in Kalisz and the lecturers employed there. We asked about the purpose of building a new campus in Warsaw, when the Prison Service has a modern centre in Kalisz. I would just like to remind you that the modernisation of this facility in 2013 and 2015 was supported by funding from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism of 586 thousand. Euros. We also drew attention to the incomprehensible separation of the functioning of the Prison Service Academy from the rules applicable to all other public and non-public universities. As you could expect, none of these questions were answered or were extremely laconic. We still do not know whether any audit or evaluation has been carried out, indicating that the previous methodology for training in prison service is wrong. We do not know what fate awaits the center in Kalisz, the lecturers employed there, and the effects of the new regulation for graduates of the fields from which the prisoners have been recruited so far, we can only guess. In turn, the failure to submit to the new school of ministry rules applicable to other public and non-public universities is still completely incomprehensible. First of all, however, we did not get an answer to the question of what these key indications show that a new institution of the Prison Service is needed. It is worth noting that doubts are common. The General Council of Science and Higher Education in its resolution of 8 February 2018 even calls for the suspension of work related to the implementation of the bill amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws providing for the possibility of setting up a prison service institution until the adoption of the Law on Higher Education and Science, which will create the need for far-reaching corrections of the opinion project on Prison Service. The Commission is also responsible for the implementation of this Decision. The Organizational and Legislative Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland presented a number of comments indicating the far-reaching shortcomings of the project. It was pointed out, among other things, that the project does not show which courses of study would be conducted in the framework of the education of a newly established university. It is also not known what range of skills a student and a graduate of this university would have. The risk of preferring graduates of the new university to candidates of civil higher education is also identified, which will undermine equality of graduates in fields such as pedagogy, rehabilitation, security and criminology in terms of access to the labour market. The mismanagement of the creation of a new entity in Warsaw was underlined without the use of the infrastructure existing in Kalisz Central Centre for Prison Service Training. The Committee of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland also noted that the planned referral to the Sejm so-called. Law 2.0 will make it necessary to amend many provisions of the amended law establishing a new university, so it is not advisable to rush into its adoption. Since the representatives of higher education clearly indicate that the proposed solutions are contrary to the objectives of the final project, so-called. The Constitution for Science, developed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, is the further proceding of a government draft law on amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws cannot be regarded as an indication of a total lack of coordination and legislative chaos in the camp so-called. It's a good change. It would be worth knowing how Deputy Prime Minister Gowin will respond to these allegations. Will he vote again in favour of this proposal, and if it is adopted, he will not be happy with the results of the vote? In conclusion, mainly because of: 1. the lack of substantive justification for the proposed amendments; 2) the mismanagement resulting from the intention to build a new university campus in Warsaw for about PLN 120 million at the expense of other concepts of improving the way the Prison Service operates; 3) the contradiction of the proposed solutions with the aims of the reform of Polish science and higher education The Modern Posel Club will vote against the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u258	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws (Print No 2334). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws results from the implementation of the Seasonal Directive through the introduction of the Act on Employment Promotion, as well as from the fact of far-reaching consultations with the social side, which raised the issue of employment of workers on farms dealing with sadification and gardening. We ourselves have experience in employing such workers and, unfortunately, we need to assess them very critically. The point is, when she was doing a fictional job employing workers in the form of a work contract, those workers didn't have any form of security. At that time, the social side argued that, through the implementation of the Employment Promotion Act and the Seasonal Directive, it should regulate the cases of persons performing the task of a helper in harvesting, in the selection of fruits, vegetables, in order simply to provide security for these workers and to establish this within the framework of the law. Therefore, after consultation of the social side, the government presented a project which creates a new form of civil law agreement between the owner of the fruit holding or gardening and the person who will carry out these tasks on his farm. It's so-called. the helper's contract at harvest and this person will be included in the social security system, a separate system for farmers, i.e. the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The farmer will pay a contribution from such a person - this year - 174 zł consisting of two drones, i.e. from the so-called contribution. health and contributions so called accident. If, God forbid, something happened to such a person doing the work of a helper at harvest, it will receive a one-off accident benefit, as well as a health insurance insurance, which means he will also be able to benefit from medical insurance. This is a strong response to the expectations of the trade union organisations that deal with the agri-food sector, the fruit industry and the gardening industry. Those doing this work will themselves pay income tax on the basis of PIT-8C. The farmer will only be obliged by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to report this worker to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund within 7 days of the start of work on the farm and to withdraw the contribution from it. In this law we also regulate other quite important things. The first important issue is the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This applies to the contribution fund. The activities and support of the organisations were based on the statute of the contribution fund, and from now on this issue will be regulated by the law, i.e. the overarching act. Another thing is already much less important and it also concerns the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, it is the advice of this institution. The Council was composed of representatives of agricultural associations and organisations, and from now on, according to this law, agricultural self-government, i.e. the Agricultural Chamber, will also be included there, and representatives of the Agricultural Chamber will be able to be elected to the board of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the project is very expected by the social side, we are asking for urgent proceedings over it. We want this law to enter into force at the beginning of the season, i.e. with the start of work on farms dealing with sadification and gardening, and we want helpers to have these basic social protections, so that there are no such cases as the recent case from Wielkopolska, or cases from Mazowsze and other regions of our country, where the helpers doing this work, the workers from these farms were left without such protection in really extreme conditions. It is a government party project, developed together with organisations. I'm calling for urgent investigation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u260	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, the Platfo Club, will be the first to speak... Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u261	Dear Marshal! I think it was a mistake because I never wanted to be at the Civic Platform Club. [[Never say never.]] I represent Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u262	Mr President, I have said the Law and Justice, I have bit my tongue at the right time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Minister! This is a project very expected by farmers. In fact, it was prepared, as the Minister said here, at the request of farmers. So far this issue has not been regulated, most of the employees have been employed either in black for many, many years, or for a contract for a work that was often fiction. This case had to be settled. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to say that my club will support this bill, this bill, because, as I said, it is very expected. There will be only one premium of PLN 174. It is not high, but it will also secure the employee, maybe above all the employee, because it will have health insurance and accident insurance, which is waiting among farmers. As a law and justice club, we are preparing some important amendments that we will report to the committee meeting, which are even more expected by farmers and, above all, fruit farmers and vegetable farmers. This is about the seven-day thing. It is written that the employer cannot hire an employee for actually 7 days, but must wait for the decision of the county employment office. We want to improve this, as well as the 120-day case. We want to offer 180 days here, because harvests are often longer than 120 days. We want, as I said, this bill to be implemented as soon as possible, because it is expected. There's already work in the orchards, there's cutting down the trees, in a moment, in May, there's going to be a collection of strawberries. As far as these field works are concerned, these gardening, fruiting works that are outside, because that's exactly where you can't plan - because this is what the weather is going to be mostly - when this work is going to be, it often happens that this work is for a short period of time and you have to hire many people to collect these fruits in orchards or vegetables. That's why a farmer, a fruit farmer, a vegetable farmer has to hire a lot of people very quickly. That is why this law, which will regulate these matters, i.e. will assist the farmer in the employment of workers. It's said here all the time that it's about foreign workers, but it's really about every employee, not just a foreign worker, every employee, anyone who's hired. This will be simplified, as there will be one contribution, regulated. This applies to any employee who will be employed for that time - at this point up to 120 days, but I hope that the committees will accept our amendment, so that it is 180 days, and we will extend it. As I said, these work in the field often lasts longer. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As I said, I am honored on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to say that this bill is expected by the fruitors, gardeners and farmers. We thank the government and the Ministry of Agriculture for preparing this bill. Thank you on behalf of the club, but thank you also, and perhaps above all, on behalf of all the farmers who are waiting for this bill, as I said. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club fully supports this law, which is good and expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u264	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The provisions proposed in the Government's draft law concern the regulation of matters relating to the social security of the farmer's helper in the harvesting of fruit and vegetables on the agricultural holding. A new type of civil law contract is introduced. The harvest aid agreement. From the impact assessment we learn that the new agreements are to be covered by about 500,000. seasonal workers and 1,400 700 farms. Despite the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's attempt to regulate social and economic matters and pay seasonal workers, the proposed solutions are not acceptable. This is due to the following reasons. Firstly, contributions to sickness, accident and maternity insurance and health contributions are introduced into the harvest aid agreement. These are the employer's costs. On the side of the farmer's helper, there's a new tax, income tax. PIT will be issued by the farmer, and therefore I have a question: Are farmers prepared, or are they aware that they will have to carry out an additional task? Minister, we would like to know how this process will be implemented and enforced, especially if we are dealing with a person who is within the meaning of the law of a foreigner. The inclusion of employment contracts at harvest will increase the revenue to the National Health Fund by PLN 264 million, i.e. PLN 132 per person under a health contribution, which will result in an increase of 36 posts of officials in the National Health Fund. The sickness, accident and maternity contribution will fund the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund by PLN 84 million, i.e. 42 PLN per person per month, which will increase the corps of officials in KRUS by 100 people. If we add to these costs the income tax, calculated at least on the lowest wage, then of course the burden of the person, the farmer's helper will be at the level of more than PLN 530. We know very well that we lack hands to work on the farm, and by introducing such solutions, we do not think that we will achieve what is most important, that is, the intended goal. These solutions will complicate the lives of farmers, develop administrative structures, which may result in the pull-out of labour forces from farms. We are also surprised to propose only 120 days as the duration of this agreement. We know very well that works in orchards or veggies last longer than 120 days, so who will fill this gap? This deal isn't gonna be full. Mrs. Marshal! Another change is to increase the competence of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development in connection with the appointment and dismissal of representatives of agricultural and social organisations. Of course, the Minister will not have to take into account the views of the agricultural authorities and social organisations when setting up the Farmers' Council. This is naturally interference and will cause manual control of this structure. It's a mistake. Another issue will be the establishment of a list of tasks to be financed by the so-called. a contribution fund. We would like to know, Minister, how, according to what algorithm, the contribution fund's money will be divided into tasks that will be included in the bill. They're enumerated. We want to know how much money will be available for the summer holidays of children and young people and on issues relating to the safety of workers on agricultural holdings, etc. This is indeed very interesting and we would like to know the position of the Ministry in this matter. Let me remind you that the contribution fund is about PLN 2 billion per year. The Civic Platform Club states that the legal solutions proposed in the draft law will make it difficult and complicate the procedures for hiring helpers of the farmer, increase the operating costs and lead to an expansion of the administration. For these reasons, Marshal, we are filing a motion to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u266	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft amendment to the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. This is print number 2334. This project is the consequence of the adoption last year of a law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions implementing the so-called provisions. the seasonal directive. The aim of the directive was to introduce uniform rules for entry, residence and employment of workers employed in Poland in the seasonal rhythm. However, it is clear to me and to farmers that this regulation was calculated to weaken and reduce the competitiveness of the Polish fruit and vegetables sector, which has gained importance in Europe in recent years. Seasonal workers are mainly employed in tourism and agriculture. It must be made clear that this directive is very harmful to Poland, to our economy, and it is particularly strongly hitting sadization and gardening. As a result of its implementation, it is difficult for Polish farmers to employ foreigners for agricultural work, which results in a decrease in the cost-effectiveness of production. Other agricultural industries are having problems. Interestingly, countries such as Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom, taking care of their interests, have ensured their exclusion from the application of this Directive. By abandoning the then decision-makers from the Civic Platform and PSL, we must apply rules today that harm Polish agriculture. It's just a shame. To date, in the simplified procedure, it was sufficient to submit a statement to the one party's office, which was the basis for obtaining a visa. After 1 January 2018, i.e. at the time of the entry into force of the law implementing the directive, farmers must become part-time officials in order to cope with all necessary formalities. The permit application itself has four pages plus several pages of annexes, then we pay the fee, we wait for the permit to be issued, then we make a statement, we wait for the permit to be issued, and we could almost breathe if not for the requirement of providing a contract of employment translated by experts, jurors and possibly accommodation contracts. It is a puriazum that something that could be handled in a simple, fast way has been extended several times and made difficult. Once again, the level of bureaucracy reaches its peak. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, which proposes to introduce a completely new type of agreement, which, due to its simplified form and the elimination of the pension and pension contributions, is a significant facilitation for farmers. The representatives of fruit and vegetable growers, with whom I had the pleasure of talking about the project, note that this is a breakthrough solution for them. However, the agricultural environment unanimously demands changes in the current law, including the law. extending the period allowing seasonal work under contract to 6 months. The 120-day period of legality of work proposed in the Act is too short. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that agricultural seasonal work is ongoing from early spring to late autumn. To the end, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill is exceptionally late in the procession. The project was introduced to the Marshal's staff on 13 March. It is at least 2 months too late to calmly, without haste to prepare a good project. Unfortunately, it has already become a rule that the project process takes place at the last minute and, unfortunately, it is often clumsy. It is very sad to see once again the disappointment of farmers who hoped to benefit from the benefits of this law, e.g. With the strawberry harvest. I therefore call for an express pace of work on the law to be adopted without undue delay. Farmers would like to benefit from this law as soon as possible and the delays in its adoption every day result in increasing losses and costs for farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u268	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u269	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, print No 2334. The project concerns the regulation of matters relating to the social security of farmers' helpers when harvesting on a farm by defining a new type of civil law agreement on aid for harvesting in the social insurance provisions of farmers. In addition, the provisions of this draft law have prepared changes in health insurance and personal income tax that will relate to farmers' helpers. The farmer on whose holding the helper will carry out the operations specified in the harvest aid contract will be obliged to pay accident, sickness and maternity contributions for him. However, the total duration of the aid for fruit and vegetables must not exceed 120 days. It is worth noting the impact of the proposed law on the public finance sector. In total, the revenue of the state budget will amount to almost PLN 3.8 billion for expenditure estimated to amount to PLN 0.8 billion over 10 years of application of this law. The balance of the state budget will therefore amount to almost PLN 3 billion. In view of the current state of public finances, this will be a large injection of money. However, the bill raises some doubts. As reported during the public consultation, the maximum 120-day duration of the harvest aid agreement is too short. There have already been arguments here why. In addition, only KRUS entities will be able to conclude these types of contracts, and therefore there is a demand that non-KRUS entities should also be able to conclude aid agreements with the collections. And that is the question, Minister: do you even allow this in the course of this bill? The consultation also drew attention to the too narrow definition of the farmer's helper. In view of the above, the Modern is in favour of further work on this bill. I hope that the comments presented by us and other clubs will be taken into account during the work of the Sejm Committee and we will be able to work together on a project that will be acceptable to all interested parties, because we see that it is necessary to introduce such solutions on the Polish farm, in Polish agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u270	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats on the draft law amending the act on social insurance for farmers, the law defining the activities of KRUS, the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. This project has basically two parts. The first part is the one that talks about the farmers' council, the contribution fund. It's like she's referring to what's been done so far, which is the CRUS case, so it's about staff matters. In fact, the Council of Farmers has already been deprived of competence, e.g. as regards the opinion of the appointed President of the CRUS, it does not matter whether the Minister will have to consult the agricultural organisations today on the appointment of this council or whether he will have to consult it. I don't think he's gonna have to, which, of course, is wrong, because it proves that this cooperation between organizations doesn't want it. However, the essential part of this law, and most of our statements are focused on it, is the so-called part. a helper at the harvest. As I said before, yes, and now I'm going to say it again: the idea isn't bad at all, I call it a good idea. The main advantage of this idea is that, as a burden on health contributions, accident premiums are transferred not to the CRUs, but to the CRUs, which can be explained by this, and rightly that this will entail a lower burden for farmers. So it is actually positive in this act, that is expected and such were the voices of the sadistic community, also the organization which I am directing, or the Union of the Sadists of the Republic of Poland. But this bill has a number of flaws. This law has a number of shortcomings that we have highlighted during the consultation process. And I'll tell you about a few of them. Firstly, this law does not refer to the seasonal directive at all. It is rather the consequence of a negative adoption, of understanding this directive. The state - I am talking about the government - you introduced it in this law so that it reduced the effective employment of foreigners in Poland, as evidenced by what is happening today in county labour offices or farms. The workers are missing, the rates are rising, farmers are queuing up, for weeks even waiting for decisions of district labour offices. That's what we signaled. And the sharpenings that you have introduced in this law do not result from the Seasonal Directive, because it says at many moments that a Member State can introduce them, but does not have to. You thought you had to introduce and introduce a number of limitations. And this bill is like making amends for the mistakes you have made, the compensation we have talked about, which is supposed to allow as if to smooth the situation of farmers or wipe out their tears due to the lack of outside workers to work on farms, because I know that Poles are not interested in this work. So what is wrong in this law above all, and what should be changed? We'll also make the right adjustments as a club. First of all, there is a short period of time. And as we refer to the Seasonal Directive, I would point out that the Seasonal Directive does not say anything about 120 days, does not say anything about 90 days or says anything about 180 days, but says that it may be a period of 9 months per year. So as we refer to the seasonal directive, let's say it's going to be 9 months a year, not 120 days or 180 days. Second... [[It will be.]] If it is 9 months, we will support this amendment, but 180 days is not 9 months. [[Six.]] So when it comes to compatibility, there's no compatibility, because if we're referring to the seasonal directive, it should be 9 months. Secondly, I am also talking about this in relation to the Seasonal Directive, after all today to care work in orchards, to cut according to this law cannot hire a helper at harvests, because these activities do not belong to the scope which will cover this contract, as it is clearly referred to as operations related to harvest, either with preparation for harvest, or with post-harvest operations. Cutting isn't like that. So we're throwing away a catalog of activities on farms with this bill. Thirdly, whether KRUS - I ask this question once again - will be able to handle such a large number of employees, for example. in some counties it was several tens of thousands of people per year. So I think that the period during which the farmer is required to declare the contract, register it and start paying the contributions will be extended because he instead of picking strawberries and guarding their harvest will stand in line for the KRUS, because her facilities are not prepared for it. Another point concerns the contributions that are foreseen. The Minister said it was PLN 174 per day, speaking of both... [[A month.]] ...monthly. And the question is, what if an employee works one day? The employer, the farmer will pay a monthly contribution for it? And this is often the case with a collection of strawberries and others, that the employee works 3 days, 4 days, 5 days a month. That's his whole job. Moreover, if we continue to enter into income tax matters, let us know that there is another obligation which will rest on the farmer, he will have to fulfil this PIT-8C and send it [[♪ The bell ♪]] an employee. Finally, the issue of excessive bureaucracy, which will therefore burden the farmer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u272	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u273	That's all I'm saying, that's our objection. And our support for this law depends on what will be taken into account, whether our amendments and those amendments which Mr said would be tabled by other clubs will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u274	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Free and Solidarni Posel Wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. In response to the expectations of farmers, the projecters have come up with new solutions that, in my view, can positively help to solve the problem of lack of hands on farms, a problem that has not existed since yesterday but has been growing over many years. The proposed new employment formula for the so-called. farmers' helpers bring benefits both for those who undertake such work and for farmers who employ them. Supporters will receive social security in the form of a paid contribution to accident, sickness and maternity insurance, as well as the possibility to benefit from health care benefits through the paid health insurance contribution. The harvest aid agreement will not be subject to minimum wage rules, but will significantly improve the employment conditions of seasonal workers on agricultural holdings, which may increase interest in this type of work among our fellow countrymen. At the same time, however, by introducing appropriate regulations in the draft, applicants took into account the fact that some farmers who rely on seasonal assistance from additional persons employed by our neighbours from across the eastern border. In addition to the regulations on the recruitment of helpers on agricultural holdings, the draft also provides for changes relating to the selection and dismissal by the Minister responsible for rural development of the members of the Farmers' Council. I agree with the applicants that the mandatory withdrawal of a member of the Board in the event of withdrawal of his support by the notifying organisation does not affect the continuity of the functioning of the Board and the new rules will enable it to operate smoothly. The fact that the draft of this law is in line with social expectations is evidenced by, among other things, the fact that the draft law is in line with social expectations. a number of requests made by the environment concerned during the consultation, which have been accepted in the course of the work so far. However, bearing in mind the validity of some of the proposals which have not yet been taken into account, I hope that a few of them, such as the extension of the period for concluding the aid agreement in collections from 120 to 180 days, will be included in the text of this amendment after further work in the committee. The Free and Solidarnia Circle will support further proceding of the project, believing that further discussions on it will be as fruitful as before. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u276	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current version of the Act obliges the farmer to pay a health contribution for the helper one month after the end of the month, regardless of the actual time of employment. This is a costly and dangerous solution for farmers, because we can imagine that the contribution will be paid for the whole month and the helper will resign after 5 days, life has already shown such situations in various areas of life. This is then an obvious loss for the farmer. Would it not be wiser to introduce a flexible solution - paying health contributions in 5- or 10-day cycles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u278	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the preparation of the KRUS to handle such a large number of applications. As far as the KRUS is concerned, will it be possible to do so on the Internet, electronically? It's the 21st century, you can get credit electronically, you can do a lot of things over the Internet. Shouldn't the KRUS be switched to electronics so that many things happen automatically? Let's just start with this system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u280	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! The question to the Minister of Agriculture is in the courtroom. In principle, it should be addressed to the Minister of Family and Labour. But the Minister said that the contract for the work was a contract that was somehow incorrectly used, over-used, or at the request of the agricultural community, the contract for the work or the legality of the contract for the work was abandoned. I know this agreement very well, and I know that in previous years it has been well used. It was primarily good for farmers because it was flexible, so it took into account the cyclicality of farm work, and secondly, it was low cost and easy to establish, to solve, did not require such precise deadlines as this proposal. So why is it that one, the other or the third resort, that this agreement was some kind of pathology that caused anyone to suffer losses? I don't know any analysis that says that this contract was misappropriated. The provisions of this agreement, which are in the Civil Code, state precisely what work can be done and covered by this agreement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I absolutely disagree with that opinion. If the Minister has anything to say about this, I would ask very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u282	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski, because the list of people asking questions has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Having listened to this discussion, I would like to address a few very important elements. Minister! Mr. Speaker! To be honest, knowing your vast experience... If someone's trying to relate to the project, it's always... In any case, I do so that I try to read into the content of the project as well as in the justification. The tax on foreigners, workers, helpers at harvests will be paid by this helper. That's one basic thing. The farmer will be obliged to submit PIT-8C by the end of February for each employee. The tax on the national helper in collections will be paid in the country and, in the case of foreign companies, due to international agreements concerning income tax, e.g. as far as Ukraine is concerned, the helper in the collections will be obliged to pay such a tax in the country concerned. Appointment of the Farmers' Council, additional consultations. Mr Maliszewski was willing to refer to this. If at least the consultation required with the Council of Farmers has already been taken off when the President of the CRUS was appointed, Mr KRUS, I would like to remind you that the obligation of this consultation has been removed from the government from the end of 2007 until 2015. The consultation wasn't taken down by this government. On the other hand, the fiction for me is that if the Farmers' Council is set up, the candidates are submitted by the organisations, and then these candidates are again consulted with the same organisations and the same organisations once again recommend their specific nominations. So why repeat, why double, why do this fiction? That is why this system is simplified. Write-downs from the contribution fund. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Points 12, 13 and 14 very clearly state the write-downs from the public benefit fund to the rehabilitation fund, the pension fund. Apart from the fact that it is finally sanctioned in the bill, and not only in the statutes, nothing changes in this case. Seasonal directive. Mr President, you yourself have been involved in the consultation on this law from the outset. You know very well that, in accordance with Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 and precisely Article. 28, the State is required by 30 September 2016 to adopt the laws and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it. Mr President, therefore, a very fundamental question. The Directive entered into force in 2014. The Minister responsible for implementing this directive was the Minister for Social Affairs. Who was the minister at the time? From what I remember, he was the President of the Polish People's Party Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. It is important to keep in mind the very important elements. 120 days? Mr President, you know very well that the project assumed 90 days. You in room 49 in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development have requested an increase of the limit to 120 days. My argument was that these helpers in the harvest, if they're thrown out of the health, accident, they're thrown out of the pension system. We also need to listen to these other union organisations dealing with workers. That was my argument. You requested to increase this number to 120 days. This is not subject to any discussion. I answer the question about the health contribution, as regards the fact that it is constant and amounts to PLN 132. The so-called one. the accident part is a brave contribution of PLN 42 and is calculated depending on the working life of the employee. On the other hand, we cannot tear down the system because the health contribution is a fixed contribution, as in the case of a family member insured in the Social Insurance Fund. That's why we didn't make this proportionality, we just kept this system and it stayed in the same system. Preparation of the agricultural insurance fund for electronic reporting. It is precisely this year that a public procurement for the new electronic system in the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund will be announced, which must also cover and cover this task. It's a work deal. You yourself know very well that this would be the best option, or perhaps bypassing, because the representatives of your organisation themselves claimed that it was circumvention. It was difficult in the contract for the work at the same time to record that the same day is doing the work on the harvest, i.e. the collection of fruit and subsequent segregation of these fruits, e.g. cleaning containers. You know perfectly well that this does not fall within the scope of the contract for the work. And the second very important element, which you have also raised, is the so-called. the protection of these workers. I am not going to talk about the most debatable cases that have unfortunately happened. They're organizations, among others. Your organization has requested that this be sanctioned. That is why we have sanctioned this in a separate social security scheme for farmers. That's the kind of institution you'll find. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club has announced amendments to extend this period to 180 days, as this also calls for the social side. The argument of the government, of course, in addition to the accident and health insurance, was to be thrown out of the pension insurance system, which is why this period was jointly negotiated for 120 days. If it is the will of the High House to extend this period to 180 days, then surely the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund can handle it. We will support the demands of the social side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u284	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Your marshal, correct.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u285	Minister! There's no need for such a nervous atmosphere. I know what I signed as president of the Polish Sadists' Union. I also know when the seasonal directive was adopted. I know even better what's written in it. So the seasonal directive does not impose on Member States, including Poland, the obligations that you have entered into in this law. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what experts are talking about. The Seasonal Directive in many places says that a Member State may, but it does not have to, I stress it again. So it was possible to exempt farmers from a dozen or so of the activities they are burdened with today and not to introduce this into the rules that introduce the seasonal directive. She gives you a lot of freedom. Regarding the contract for the work, we talked about the fact that the contract for the work is a contract that can be applied to many activities. It cannot, of course, be applied in respect of all farm work, but in the case of many activities it can be applied. I don't know what the legal basis is for throwing away a work contract, and that's what some county labour offices do today, from the whole system. If we're talking about the fact that the contract for the work is included, for example. a collection of fruits from 1 ha, this is a work. We can't say it's not a work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So less nervous, Minister, more pragmatism, and it's gonna be okay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u286	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns this project and talks about the provisions concerning the identification of candidates and their selection to the Social Insurance Board of Farmers. You are proposing in these records that the Minister responsible for rural development should not consult the notifying organisations on the selection of the members of the board. You consider it unnecessary and unnecessary to consult with this record, or rather to throw it away. The Minister will receive a written notification of individual candidates and from these descriptions, as you have written it down, the Minister will have a picture of the candidate and will choose. Here are the questions: 1. Will he choose candidates with a description and a picture of the candidate and behind the back of those who show him the right candidate? 2. Where do you listen to the Sovereign's voice? Where is the dialogue and consultation? Where's your respect for those you promised you'd listen carefully to their voice?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The collection of fruit and vegetables is an agricultural activity which requires a large number of people to work at harvest. So far, work in agriculture has been carried out with contracts for work which are not covered. The proposed law amending the Act on social insurance for farmers and certain other laws provides that the basis for the provision of aid for harvests will be the aid agreement for fruit and vegetable harvests, during which there is a significant accumulation of work. This agreement will ensure that the harvest workers are protected. My question concerns the scope which includes the draft law - i.e. the collection of fruit and vegetables, their sorting and preparation for sale. Is this scope sufficient and should not be extended to other types of agricultural work? The aim of the Act is to reduce labour costs by adopting a flat-rate form of contributions and reducing administrative obligations. What obligations will be placed on farmers who take part in harvest work? how much will the contributions be necessary to pay? What's the estimate? How many people are going to deal with these contracts? On what scale will Polish citizens be involved in the collections, and on what scale will foreign citizens be involved? How can the proposed regulation affect the labour market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, print No.234, deals with the regulation of matters relating to social security for farmers. It is important that farmers receive support in the form of additional support workers at the harvest stage. For each agricultural sector, there is a period of upsizing of work, a short-term increase in labour demand. My questions are: 1. Can a farmer's assistant be a short-term unemployed person but with the right to unemployment benefits? If so, how would the right to unemployment benefit be affected? 2. Is it possible to introduce provisions to increase the pension from KRUS for those farmers who pay a higher premium, as is the case for pensions paid by the CSO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u290	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 2337 and 2358). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the Senate's amendments to the draft law adopted at the previous meeting of the government on amending the Law on Hunting Law in Printing No 1042. High Izbo! The Senate has passed seven amendments to this bill. 1. Amendment to amendment 2. 8a removes the need to include in hunting plans wounded and unfounded game. 2. the amendment is legislative in nature, as amended by Article 14. 33c introduces an alternative instead of conjunction. 3. amendment, also in amendment 14, in Article. 33d, in turn, extends the circle of persons subject to the obligation to make illustrative statements to persons cooperating with the security authorities of the communist state. Let me remind you that until now, in the version that came out of the Sejm, the task of illustriousness included soldiers, workers, and officers. Now the Senate amendment extends it to co-workers. 4. The amendment corrects the incorrect provisions introduced by the recklessly prepared amendment of one of the opposition clubs which has deleted from the Article. 42aa of the Act on Obstruction of Hunting, but did not remove the corresponding penalty from amendment 30. Thus, the Senate amendment removes the penalty provision and improves the numbering of points. 5. the amendment adds Article. 3a containing amendments to the Arms and Ammunition Act, introducing an obligation of research for hunters. As indicated in the work of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Bureau raises considerable constitutional doubts, because neither in the Government's submission in print No 1042, nor in the course of the Parliament's work on this project were there any references to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, and changes, that is, a new article. 3a, they are only introduced by the Senate amendment. The last two amendments, 6 and 7, are editorial and legislative. High Izbo! The joint committees recommend that the High House adopt, despite the reservations I have tabled, all seven amendments. With regard to this amendment relating to the provisions on the lodging of illustrative statements, I would remind you that while we were working on the draft law in the Sejm, we were considering this issue. We didn't want to overenlarge the circle of people who were being judged, so that the bill would be enforceable. However, since the Senate is proposing this change, the committees have agreed to this proposal. On the other hand, regarding this amendment which is controversial because of the obvious unconstitutionality of the considerations which gave rise to its positive opinion, it is to ensure the safety of Poles, because it will increase the safety of Poles. High Izbo! As I say, the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u292	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I therefore ask that Mr Jerzy Gosievski speak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u293	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the 2358 report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate, which, after considering the law amending the Hunting Law and certain other laws, decided to introduce seven amendments to its text. In Amendment 1. The Senate rightly proposes that part of the article be deleted. 8a, which means that according to the hunting records book, no data on the wounded and unfound game will be included in the annual breeding plan. Amendment 2 aims to avoid interpretation doubts as regards the exclusion from the authorities of the EBF of all persons convicted of intentional crime or tax offence, as well as those who were punished in disciplinary proceedings. The very important and very expected changes of the Senate are proposed in Amendment 3, which extends the circle of persons subject to the obligation to make illustrative statements to persons who cooperated with the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic. A similar record of this solution was already in the draft during the work of the Sejm committees. It is very good that we are restoring this recipe, because crowds of farmers and hunters in the field are looking forward to clearing the authorities of the Polish Hunting Union from the security officers of the Polish People's Republic and their secret associates. Amendment 4 repeals the entire regulation, as Mrs Paluch said, on prohibiting and deliberately obstructing or preventing collective hunting, because the current provision providing for sanctions in the form of fines for such actions is without object. Amendment 5 creates a lot of problems because it obliges those who hold a gun permit for hunting purposes to present a specific medical and psychological certificate once every 5 years. Amendments 6 and 7 rightly provide a reference to the relevant provisions. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in accordance with the report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, presented by the rapporteur, Anna Paluch, supports all seven amendments tabled by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u294	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Suski from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are at the final stage of the amendment of the Hunting Law, with the difficulty of over a year and a half, and there are some amendments that the Senate has proposed to us. I am convinced that the High House will accept amendments from 2 to 7. The Commission is proposing to adopt all the amendments, and I would like to lean on one that is still worth discussing, and I think it is worth trying to persuade the High House to reject this amendment. The Parliament, in its original form, of the proposed amendment - as we call it colloquially - accepted the registration of the gunshots, which aroused optimism, while the Senate proposed that this amendment be rejected in this wording. On the other hand, it seems very important to regulate the specifics of hunting, namely not quite accurate, not quite ethically fired arrow wounding an animal, which is not found, knocked down, obtained ethically. The image of the game collected under hunting plans is therefore completely falsified. The wounding of animals by hunters during hunting is a common phenomenon and is a huge problem of hunting in Poland. I'm seeking this amendment because it will allow the hunters to be disciplined ethically, so that they can be sure of the shot they fired. Under the law of the Hunting Law, they are obliged to be 100% I'm sure the shot will cause the animal to die, but it's not. According to the data contained in the elaboration of the "Loving." The humanitarian-legal aspect of Dr Magdalena Micińska-Bojarek up to 30% of animals are wounded during hunting. In the case of feathered game, e.g. geese, according to published accounts of hunters themselves, are wounded up to 80% birds. Only during the 2015/2016 hunting season, hunters shot 642 300 deer, daniels, boars, deer, or so-called. fat game. It is therefore estimated that even more than 160 thousand. animals were wounded as a result of hunting. There's no information on what part of these animals... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, please don't take this kind of trip. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, this is a violation of the Sejm's seriousness. Please respond. Because I'm not fucking around, I'm sorry, I'm just taking the floor and talking about the data. If you listened, you would know that these are reliable data collected on the basis of research. Therefore, I ask you to consistently apply the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, time has been exhausted due to the need to pay attention. I appeal to the High House to reject the first amendment and adopt the remaining amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u296	Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. I will refer to the entire bill, briefly summarizing it. Over the years, very chaotic work on the bill did not translate into the quality of this law. The bill is bad for both farmers and hunters. Its basic flaw is too far-reaching interference in the structure of the Polish Hunting Union, which in fact causes its stubbornness. The responsibility of the hunting circle for compensation in the event of liquidation has also been too narrowly defined. The Polish Hunter Union is ultimately responsible for the payment of commitments, but the regress claim applies only to members of the board of directors of the liquidated hunting circle. Shouldn't all members be responsible for the failure of the wheel? After all, this action of all hunters in a given circle, not just the board, has an impact on its financial situation. This could even lead to no one wanting to be on this board. Extreme abuse is the inclusion in the law of a provision prohibiting hunting in the presence or participation of children up to 18 years old. This is state interference in the way of raising children. According to the Constitution, parents have the right to raise children according to their own beliefs, and this law restricts them. Every parent wants the best for his child, doesn't want to hurt him, and by adopting this law, we create a very dangerous precedent, and soon it may turn out that we will legally regulate the ban on children entering the pigsty and barn. What's good about these amendments? The good proposal is, you can say, to extend the circle of people who will not be able to sit in the authorities of the Polish Hunting Union, about secret co-workers. The law is also bad for farmers because it does not guarantee that damage to their crops caused by game hunting will be properly rewarded. Farmers are once again at the mercy and disfavor of the hunting circle and the Polish Hunting Union. In conclusion, I would like to express a negative view of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u298	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u299	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The Senate has adopted seven amendments, and I will only talk about two amendments that are worth discussing. It is an amendment rejecting what has been accepted in the Sejm, which is to eliminate data on wounded and unfound game from the shooting plans that have been carried out. Why is it so important? From the point of view of hunting plans, gunshots, that is, wounded by hunting animals, represent an important number of animals. The return of the wounded animal to health in natural conditions is rare, which is emphasized by specialists from all researched centres of rehabilitation of wild animals in Poland. Given the statistics of hunters, 30% of the animals are shot while hunting and escape with gunshot wounds, which usually ends in their deaths. In the case of birds, small game is one in four individuals throughout the population. It is assumed that hunters find up to 70% wounded animals, but even then the number of unaccounted for, and hence not included in the plans to obtain animals, may reach tens of thousands in one hunting season. It is significant that hunting prices in OHZ-ets include the cost of harming an animal of a given species by a hunter. I appeal to you not to support the 1st Senate amendment because it does not allow for a rational hunting economy. Of course, we welcome and thank the senators for adopting an amendment that repeals the penalty provision in relation to deliberate obstruction of hunting. I'm not going to discuss this anymore, it's obvious. I am most pleased that the Senate has supported our call for the introduction of an obligation for hunters to conduct medical and psychological examinations every 5 years. A hunter usually stays for life. Many hunters are elderly, and they were allowed firearms even several decades ago, without the requirement of re-examination over time. At present in the hands of 130 thousand. hunters find 70% firearms registered in Poland and hunters account for as much as 62% the general public with a gun permit. Senator PiS Józef Zając claimed that hunters are sensitive to the health of their colleagues and that is enough. However, this is not any guarantee that would give the public the assurance that hunters using firearms in public spaces are under medical control in the same way as other legitimate firearms holders in that country. We will, of course, support these amendments, in addition to Amendment 1, which I have discussed. Thank you very much to the Senate for having succeeded with these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u300	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u301	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was very hoping that the Senate would prepare good, substantive amendments that would mitigate the effects of this ill-prepared law, this legal bubble, which not only eliminates the self-government of an organization that was established 5 years after Poland's independence, not only eliminates the UNESCO-listed falconry... After the entry into force of this law, Polish cynology will cease to count in the world. This law also conflicts a farmer with a hunter. It definitely creates more conflictogenic situations than it has ever been. The farmer won't be able to scare the game out of his field, it's not normal. Besides, the records that concern the participation of children are not only unconstitutional... Already today... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The law, the law forbids. Ecologists today announce that they will come hunting with children, and therefore hunting will not be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, hunting and hunting is the task of the State, it is a legitimate action. The police are legit, the fire department. Does anyone even consider that they can be unpunished to interfere with these services in carrying out their duties? I don't think so. Today you introduce impunity - impunity in disturbing hunts. To prevent hunting, to increase distance, to introduce such possibilities, instruments that will interfere with hunting or the lack of trained dogs will certainly cause the spread of ASF, which is a big problem in Poland - I think we are all in agreement on this. The enormous damage that will certainly result will result in the liquidation and bankruptcy of hunting circles. And you know what the first step is? This is the first step towards privatising hunting in Poland. Today, the whole world, all of Europe is moving to Poland and asking us: how did you manage to keep the state forests? Because there are no national forests in Europe. Second question: how did you manage to maintain state hunting? Because it's commercial everywhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law introduces the first step towards commercialization of Polish hunting. Thank you. [[What a pathos.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u302	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u303	I have a question for... I don't know, the senators, the minister. The question concerns an amendment which requires medical examination of weapons users. The first question is whether this duty will enter into force... Does a hunter have three months or five years to do this research after the law enters into force? Because it's not precise. And the second question is, does this record that changes the Hunting Law also apply to other gun owners - I don't know, collectors, sports weapons users - do you only refer it to hunters? Because it would be surprising if only one selected group of weapons users, which is not directed at humans, were involved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u304	Thank you. I would like the floor of Minister Małgorzata Golińska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! This is not a question for us, because it was not on our initiative that this amendment was tabled. The senators would have to be questioned, but, of course, in the ministry, we will lean on this subject and give you a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u306	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 21 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 26 March 2018 will mark the anniversary of the life of the Polish astronomer, who surprised the world. His life and passion have been staged. It also has a monument near the house from which the roof watched the celestial spheres by handmade astronomical instruments. In the city with which he tied his fate, his name was called school and communication roundabout. This outstanding and unique figure is not Nicolaus Copernicus, although many amazing similarities can be found in his life's journey to the stars: scientific curiosity and passion combined with humility towards the Creator. This figure is Adam Giedrys, a resident of Szczecin in the Central Pomerania. It's an unusual character. Tailor by profession, astronomer by appointment. He was born in Vilnius on 26 March 1918, on the threshold of Polish independence. He became a master of tailoring and practiced his profession in Nowy Dwor near Ponowież, from which came outstanding engineer and constructor Stanisław Kierbedź, the creator of the famous bridge in Warsaw, named after his name by the Kierbedz bridge. During the war he belonged to the National Army - Vilnius District. After the war, in 1946, he settled in Szczecin. In 1948, he was arrested for anti-communist activities and was imprisoned in Wronki. That's where he got really sick. He was hospitalized in Olsztyn, where events took place, which later changed his life. He saw a book about astronomy, started reading it, and he couldn't stop. Astronomy absorbed him completely and filled his life. From the glasses, he built a telescope to observe the sky. On the roof of the building in which he lived, he built with the help of the authorities and people of goodwill an observation dome. He didn't keep his astronomical knowledge to himself. He quickly discovered the pedagogical talent and the need to share the secrets of heaven with the young generation. He took school trips, organized readings and seminars. He did not limit his work to Szczecink, but participated in international conventions, conducted correspondence with scientific centers and even with astronauts. He has prepared many who are infected with the astronomical passion of successors. Its uniqueness was noticed by NASA - an agency of the US government dealing with astronauts and space exploration. In recognition of his admirable passion, he was the first Pole to receive from NASA a sample of lunar land from Apollo 11 of 1969, the first landing of a man on the Moon, which was presented only in Szczecin in 1971. Adam Giedrys died in Szczecin on 26 December 1997. High Izbo! The legend of Adam Giedrys is already part of the history of the Central Pomerania - the story that people came from different parts of Poland after the war, discovering here a new, unknown world. They won him with passion, ingenuity, courage, dedication and patriotism. In the 100th anniversary of the birth of Poland reborn, on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Adam Giedrys, we pay tribute to him and to the generation of explorers who rebuilt, developed and integrated this new, unknown world with Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u308	Thank you. Ms Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every year, on March 21 in Poland and in the world, the world day of people with Down syndrome is celebrated. This date was not chosen accidentally. It symbolizes the third chromosome of the 21st pair whose presence is the genetic cause of Down syndrome. In 1862 the English physician John Down first described Down's syndrome as a separate form of mental delay. In 1959, the French geneticist and pediatrician Jérôme Lejeune discovered the cause of this disorder called the 21st chromosome trisomy. The discovery of the relationship between intellectual disability and chromosome anomaly made it possible to reject the theory of the hereditary character of the team. It is worth mentioning here that in 2011 the American Journal of Medical Genetics published a report, the results of which show that 99% People with Down syndrome say they're happy. In addition, 79% parents said that their life prospects were more positive thanks to their children with Down syndrome and 88% My siblings feel like they're better people because of their siblings with Down syndrome. This year's celebration is under the slogan: what do I give my society? It aims to promote the rights of people with Down syndrome to participate fully in society. In many cities various actions are carried out as a sign of solidarity with people with Down's syndrome, such as the action of putting colored socks on this day not to pair. High Izbo! There's a reason I'm reminding you of this special celebration. It is important to me for personal reasons. I'm the mom of an adult woman with Down syndrome. With full awareness, I stress here that Magda, because her name is my daughter, is the great joy and strength of my life. Her appearance in this world has changed my life for the better. I have a special daughter who sees the world a little differently. This world is simple and beautiful, and people in it are good, they help each other, they smile at each other. Magda's the one who's still teaching me how to enjoy the little things. He has incredible confidence and serenity. He can sense my emotions, he can comfort me, and he's a very helpful person. I assure you that she is happy, independent and surrounded by a family that loves and supports her very much. Thanks to it, I experience what true unconditional and limitless love is. Thanks to it, I notice how much diversity is around us. I notice the need for tolerance and concern for such persons. I also personally know many happy families raising children with Down syndrome. What's the recipe for happiness? It is simple: first of all, you have to accept the child as he is, with his deficits and at the same time the huge potential that he has, and not let it be wasted. The danger to parents' happiness is their own selfishness and comfort. I'm sure it's not disabled children. Therefore, on this day I appeal to those of you who do not understand that we are happy having a disabled child. It is true that there are more problems, more work, more time we need to devote to rehabilitation, science, but we see the effects of our actions. We don't expect compassion and mercy. Contrary to popular opinion, we do not feel hurt by fate. We do not repent for our sins, and a disabled child is not a punishment for us. I also appeal to parents who are expecting a child with Down's syndrome: let him live, and it will cause true love to enter your lives, and many times you will feel the most beautiful joy and sincere pride. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u310	Thank you very much, Member. I would like the floor of Mr Aleksandr Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 March 1993 St. John Paul II announced papal brow, in which he raised to the name of the basilica the smaller parish church of St. The cuts of St. John the Baptist in Chojnice. This title of honor is given by the Pope to temples which express themselves with their unique historical or liturgical values. It is a great honor showing the connection between the church and the Vatican and the importance of the temple for the region. This event 25 years ago was the crowning of the efforts to give the title of the basilica of the then clergy of the diocese of Ppellin: parish priest Roman Lewandowski and bishop of the diocese Fr. Professor Jan Bernard Szlagi. The parish church played a very important role in my town. This oldest city church is primarily a place of religious, cultural and socio-political worship for the whole Chojnice region. The monumental walls of the Gothic temple dominate Chojnice. This is where the next generations of Chojniczan prayed for centuries. The church was consecrated for 20 years by Bishop Peter of Gniezno in 1365. The church was built in the style of Gothic Vistula. War riots, fires, the church's takeover by Protestants, during which the priest of that time was murdered. This event, as well as many other joyful and uplifting events, consists of almost 7 centuries of church history. The last fire in February 1945, after the Russians had entered and the war was completed, was completely consumed by the Chojnica fara. The city center was set on fire by soldiers of the victorious army. It took ten years to rebuild the temple. Chojnicki was visited and prayed by the Primate of Poland cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński, Primate of the Millennium, who visited Chojnice in 1953, shortly before the internment by the communist authorities of Poland in the framework of repression against the Catholic Church. In 1994 in the Chojnice basilica he celebrated Mass on the first anniversary of the title of the basilica primate Józef Glemp. In the 1980s, the activists of the NSZZ.Solidarity had great support from the parish priest Roman Lewandowski, who lent rooms for meetings, supported families of persecuted and interned activists. It's in the Chojnice Far on the first anniversary of the martyr's death. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, activists of the Social Security Service, founded a memorial plaque commemorating this murder by security officers. On 11 March 2018, on the 25th anniversary of the award of the title of the basilica, the Polish Primate Wojciech Polak celebrated the solemn Mass. This is a very important event for the community above all the parishes, but also for the inhabitants of Chojnice and the region. As a resident of Chojnice, an altar boy and a former parishioner of the parish church of Pw. The cuts of St. John the Baptist expresses my great joy and gratitude to the sleeper. Canon priest Roman Lewandowski and sleep. Bishop of Diocesan John Bernard Szlagi for their commitment to giving the title of the basilica smaller to my first parish church. From this place I greet all members of the parish community, associations and prayer communities operating at the parish and priests serving in the parish. May this beautiful jubilee bring us all to a moment of reflection and reflection on the essence of our faith. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u312	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On the recitals of the poem Joanna Kulmowa. The rose, the European Union's faithful service, has decided to continue its thorns. Atoli lost completely the color, shape and smell of the next dull stages, which equals the destruction of the rose. That's what happens when you serve something bluntly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u314	Thank you. Mr Jan Kilian, Mr Law and Justice, will now speak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, the Law and Justice will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 17th and 18th, the 22nd National Football tournament was held in Konin. Olka Ruminkiewicz about the Cup of the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. The tournament, like many other sports events in Poland, was organized for children aged up to 10 years. From the beginning, since the creation of the idea of organizing football competitions, Wojtek Ruminkiewicz, the father of a tragically deceased 10-year-old boy named Olek, and people sensitive to human harm. At the organization of the hall tournament, all those who are at heart of passing on the youngest in the sports competitions to the right relationships between people are enjoying it at the same time. In addition to this idea, we cannot pass indifferently and without any reflection, because on the one hand we are dealing with the brutal murder of an innocent child who wants to live and develop like all other children, and on the other hand, based on this tragic event, we want to give the children the joy of sporting rivalry. At first glance, it seems impossible for each of us to combine two extreme feelings such as tragedy and joy, but looking at the organisation of the tournament and its frame, it can be said that the tournament ended in a great success. This is certainly a beautiful example of cooperation between representatives of different levels of government with President Konin, voivode and representatives of various ministries at the head. The main idea of the tournament is to commemorate Olek Ruminkiewicz and other children who became victims of violence, which, like all participants of the tournament, could, competing with each other, enjoy as much as possible and develop their personality, unfortunately their lives stopped. They're not gonna make their dreams come true. Time stopped for them because someone brutally entered their innocent lives. Today they certainly patronize every competition in Konin in advance, so it is good that the presidents of the Republic join this patronage, starting with Lech Kaczyński and Andrzej Duda including the main prize of the tournament in the form of a trophy. It is a beautiful example of joining all social groups, including the highest authorities of Poland, including the victims of violence in the educational process of our future, such as children. Parents who have been brutally taken away by their children, with their own presence at the tournament, support the idea of this wonderful sporting event, and I think that in this way, although in part they try to continue to stay in time, not realized by their sons and daughters' dreams. So it is good that a football tournament for the children of Olek's memory is organized every year at one of the primary schools in Konin. Various politicians come to the competition, including Members, offering interesting prizes and cups, as well as Polish artists and famous athletes. During the last tournament young athletes were accompanied by Domarski and Ćmikiewicz, famous footballers from the group of famous coach Kazimierz Górski. Kids play soccer for two days and play. They don't lack anything, because they get everything from tournament organizers and teammates competing with each other. Looking aside at the involvement of many people in organizing this tournament, the sincere joy of the players and their rivalry, I congratulate you once again, Wojtek, on the idea. Almost from the beginning I have been trying to support you in this undertaking, because I believe that we must not waste time for children. Thank you, Wojtek, for what you do and wish perseverance in passing positive energy on to others, which is so much needed, especially to people with similar experiences to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u316	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Preparing for local elections political environments and civic groups! People of Krosnieński County on Lubuskie land! The local media environment and you who claim to be local media! Yesterday, in an evening discussion with you about the Act of 1 April 2016 on decommunization of public space, I pointed out that many local governments, instead of taking advantage of this opportunity to root their locality in certain values, symbols and figures by giving appropriate names to streets, squares, parks, escapes into the strategy of pretending that: we will not do politics on street names. Then I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on this, among other things. is the transfer of values, heritage of ancestors and transmission of patterns. Who, like who, but councillors, should have this awareness, for they should benefit from this privilege, that in the year of regaining independence by Poland they have the chance to enter into this good decisions about giving patrons to the streets. It's happening like it's happening. I'm gonna ask the auxiliary question. Isn't there anyone in Gubin and Krosno Odrzański who wouldn't want their city to have a street this year called the Centuries of Independence? After all, other generations will come for us, even soon, even if 50 years will wonder what has done to her - independence - the thing of our generation. What is proposed in return? Here is an example of a horrible, devastating public debate, lying about the fact that in the year of independence we will be fraternizing, loving and cooperating. One of the local newspapers, and there are many such in Poland, is doing everything to disgust Law and Justice, giving manipulated, lying, and the worst vulgar and widely regarded as insulting words. I'm showing you the cover page. I will not quote, because in this room of the Polish Parliament it is not possible to use such words, but it cannot be used in such a way to the environments and people who create them in the space of public debate, because it has terrible consequences, bad emotions. I turn to you, to those who hide behind the journalistic guns, the orderers of such aggressive and vulgar, manipulative texts: leave it alone. All the more so with my eyes of imagination I reach into the scenes, when during e.g. On May 3rd or November 11th, you will speak with the speaker about agreement and agreement. The events that the newspaper describes, and their factography, have nothing to do with what's written in this paper. And they have nothing to do with the intentions of the Member who is speaking here. It says in the paper: the people chose the street name, the Member doesn't care. How does the paper know where and what I have? Further on about the status of the Member's spirit: apparently he concluded that... How does a journalist know my thoughts, my way of thinking, I don't know. But he himself puts it hard that the Member thought that: it is not worth putting the stick in the anthill. It could be turned into a joke, but it's not funny. The activities of the newspaper clearly impact the image of the Member and Party he represents. Journalists make this clearly striking, outrageously unreliable, biased, manipulative. Poor reader, for he is led by a dishonest, biased narrative based on evil will and inspiring demons of anger and resentment where she should not be in her own home, where the nearest neighbor near the neighbor, a parishioner near the parishioner. I therefore address Mr. Mayor Cebula: don't escalate tension, don't limit the truth, don't let the name "political hooligan" stick to you. I turn to the newspaper's editorial office: set up a revised, reliable text, withdraw from the law and justice campaign and never, ever, ever bring public discourse into our little country of vulgarism and rudeness, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the word is usually followed by acts of rudeness, and this should be avoided. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-21-sejm-60-2.u318	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. on 22 March, until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 06]]
