ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u1	I open the 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. I inform you that the Sejm at its sixty-second meeting on 10 May 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Payment Services and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Road Transport Monitoring and some other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Telecommunications Law and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 50th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fiftieth Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next Senate meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 4 to 8 and items 11, 12 and 13 of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose a change in the order of examination of point 12, i.e. a second reading of the draft resolution amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and considering it as item 11 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Klich and then Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of our Group of Senators of the Civic Platform, I request a photo from the agenda of item two: a law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u3	Good. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the agenda be completed, that all the reports on the senators' initiatives be included, which were adopted by the committees at least a year ago, and so far, by the will of Mr Marshal or other persons, are not prosecuted. I think it's a waste of effort and work. This includes the legislative work of the Senators. The second reason is that, like everything else, also the Senate's term of office comes to an end, and the doubt is... [[Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh]] Mr. Marshal, have you fainted? 'Cause there's something you're barking at... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, proceding these laws and resolutions requires effort, perhaps even additional time, but it would be wrong if they were not considered, especially by the Senate, led by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Klich's motion for a second-point photo... I'm in charge of... Because it is my request and the request of the Senior Convention to make this order look as it is on the draft agenda, and your request is against it, to take this point down, which is... Wait, maybe we can vote on Senator Klich's motion. I'm against it. We'll vote for Senator Klich's motion for a photo... I'm against it. Who's in favor of Senator Klich's motion to take down point two... I'll read... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? I will read the title of this item: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Who's in favor of Senator Klich's request? Who's against it? Please report the results. 80 senators voted against, 25 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the senator's request has not been supported by the High House. Mr. Senator Rulewski, I have doubts about how to pass your motion because you put it in a very general way, it would have to be more concrete, not such a general... I don't know what... You'd have to get ready right now... I could... [[I mentioned it very precisely.]] If it's accurate... Okay, I'm gonna vote on your motion... I'm against that conclusion. Does anyone else want to take... no, no one's taking the floor. [[Voice from the room: You're a party.]] Mr. Senator, I am not a party, the party is the Senate and the senator knows very well that always the Senate, the High Chamber on questionable matters makes a decision, not the marshal, but the High Chamber. Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] The senator's motion is gone. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that, in the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on point one: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Captain Witold Pilecki will be conducted immediately after its consideration. Today at 6:00 p.m., an hour's break will be announced, during which the documentary film entitled, entitled, will be shown in room 217. Soldau. A city on the border of death. To consider point six, i.e. The income tax bill, we will proceed this afternoon, probably after the adjournment. We will also listen to the Ombudsman's information after the break. Information on the activities of the National Judicial Council will be presented tomorrow after the session resumes at 10 a.m. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Witold Pilecki. I would like to welcome Mrs. Zofia Pilecka-Optułowicz, daughter of the rotmaster Witold Pilecki. I would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] I also welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Szark. Hello, Mr. President. I would remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print No. 810 and the committee's report In print No 810 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to be able to present to you the draft resolution which was adopted as a project which was created as a result of my proposal, but was developed during the next two meetings of the Legislative Commission, 11 and 15 May this year. It can be said that this version, which I will present to you, is developed by both the Senators of the majority, the Law and Justice, as well as the Senators of Minorities, the Civic Platform and non-associated Senators. This consensus that we should honor Captain Witold Pilecki on the 70th anniversary of his death was definitely common. However, before I read the text of this agreed project, I would like to stop for a moment on these words universal agreement, universal agreement on the importance of honoring both the captain Witold Pilecki and the biography of this outstanding Pole. None of us sitting here have any doubt that this is one of the most outstanding figures of the Polish history of the 20th century and as Poles we have had the opportunity to articulate this truth, that we are proud that among Polish sons was the captain Witold Pilecki. However, it is certainly worth considering why the Senate, once again honoring this form, decided to do so and why such compatibility in this view occurred at the meetings of the Legislative Commission. Well, I think that even if it wasn't the end, it was widely defined, but we agree in this room that there is a need to be proud of the fact that we are Poles, the need to support this pride with concreteness, i.e. a specific resume, not one, definitely many. We are fortunate to be able to support many resumes in the history of the 20th century. In any case, without concrete, without the biography of specific Polish heroes, this pride can become an empty sound. Luckily, it doesn't become an empty sound, because we're just remembering, among other things. The captain of Witold Pilecki. This presently needed national pride is not the only reason why the Senate is adopting a resolution. I think she's doing it for at least another reason, at least I'm in favour of the thesis. Namely, thanks to e.g. The Institute of National Remembrance, thanks, of course, to the family, the children of Mr.Witold Pilecki, and Mrs.Zofia, and Mr.Andrzej, is a figure that has become so brutally known not only in Poland but also more and more in Europe and in the world. This is becoming more and more the way, of course, and not the fulfillment. Well, this resolution, I hope, can fulfil the function of such another pebble on this road, so that Europe, and the whole world, through the prism of the biography of Captain Witold Pilecki, will learn about our extraordinary 20th century history. They will very often be incomprehensible if they are not embedded in the biography of a particular man. And today we need to know about the 20th century, about the 20th century from a Polish perspective, about what was happening in the years 1900 and 1999 to be widely known. I hope that this resolution will fulfil this function. Today we need the truth about Polish experience, especially during World War II and wartime, to become more and more widely known in Europe for obvious reasons. Today, we see how much fake history, falsified history serves political purposes, which are today to hit Poland and the Polish state's right. The more it is. We need to be able to enter Europe and the world with Witold Pilecki, with our banner, one of many, but very beautiful and important. With such an intention, with such a thought, I took this initiative to make the resolution our common work. Thank you very much to the Senators of both Law and Justice and the Civic Platform for leaning on this text together and becoming our common good. I hope that this will be immortalized in our senate memory as well. And the last sentence before I read the resolution. The Senate has, as we know, many tasks I won't open or close their list here. But one of these tasks, which I always try to talk about when making another historic resolution, is the conduct of a reasonable, intelligent but creative historical policy of the Polish state. The Senate is a chamber that should do the same. I hope that regardless of how long I will be a senator, this will undoubtedly be a common, accepted task of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. And now the content of this resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Captain Witold Pilecki. On May 25, 1948, in a prison in Mokotów at ul. Rakowiecka in Warsaw was executed death sentence on the rott master of Witold Pilecki. His biography is now widely known to Poles, and he is also becoming an increasingly recognizable figure in Europe. He was born on 13 May 1901 in Ołońc. As a young boy scout and student, he fought in Vilnius for the shape of reborn Poland. At the time of independence, as a landowner, he and his wife ran a farm and promoted Polish education among the local population. In 1939 he started fighting two deadly enemies of Poland. In 1940 he deliberately and voluntarily became a prisoner of KL Auschwitz to establish a conspiracy organization there, and then in reports to the free world information about the crimes committed in German concentration camps primarily on the Polish and Jewish population. After his escape from the camp he rejoined the conspiracy and then fought in the Warsaw Uprising. After his release from German captivity, he was sent to the Army of General Władysław Anders after the war to undertake an illegal mission to return to the country in order to continue the fight for Poland's independence with the new invader. Arrested by UB officers along with his associates, he was subjected to both physical and mental torture. After a disgraceful trial, he was sentenced to death. When he heard the judgment, he was to say: " I tried to live so that at the time of death I might rejoice rather than be afraid. ' His remains have not been found to this day. The memory of the captain's extraordinary actions was to fade away, and with it the pride of the insubordinate Nation. However, after the fall of communism in Poland, thanks to the efforts of children of the rotmaster and many backgrounds, including historians, and institutions, including the Institute of National Remembrance, Witold Pilecki became one of the most famous historical figures of the 20th century. It has also become a symbol of Polish struggles with two totalitarianisms, as well as a model for contemporary, especially young people, looking for real authorities. In 2006 he was honoured with the Order of the White Eagle and in 2013 he was promoted to the rank of colonel. His pupils today are all Poles like him loving his homeland. The message that he left to his children, Sofia and Andrew, is therefore addressed to all of us: "Love your land." Love your sacred faith and tradition of your own Nation. Grow up to be men of honor, always faithful to the highest values they recognize, which must be served with their whole lives. On the 70th anniversary of the death of the Hero of the Polish Nation, captain Witold Pilecki, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to His memory and calls on all Poles to put out white and red flags every year this day. Hello and glory to the Hero, and disgrace to His oppressors. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. I am very pleased that this resolution will become a fact and not just a project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. May I remind you that the applicant is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President of the Institute of National Remembrance! Dear Rotmaster Pilecki's Family! Today in the resolution we pay tribute to the great hero of our freedom, captain Witold Pilecki, murdered on 25 May 1948 in a Mokotów prison on Rakowiecka Street in Warsaw by communist aphids, minions of totalitarian regime imposed on Poland from Moscow. The Senate's resolution only partially resembles the merits of this unique hero during World War II, who as a voluntary prisoner was sent to Auschwitz, where under the assumed name of Lieutenant Thomas Serafiński organized the underground Union of the Military Organization, but most importantly, wrote and sent reports about German crimes. It was thanks to his reports that the West had full knowledge of German genocide. Also the government of the Republic of Poland in exile, operating in London, could send with these reports by Jan Karski with a mission to the USA in June 1943. And here I will remind you that the Polish courier met with the most important American politicians, including President Franklin Roosevelt, who was informed about the extermination of Jews in Auschwitz. Unfortunately, the president didn't show any interest. Information about the extermination of Jews also reached an influential Jewish lobby in the United States. They knew all about the fate of their fellows, but they did not show any interest either. One could say that the symbol of this indifference to the fate of fellow believers is the story of the ship St. Louis with nearly a thousand Jewish refugees from the Third Reich. Let me remind you that in May 1939 the American government refused to accept these people seeking rescue from Hitler's terror. The Jews had to return to Europe by this ship, where most of them died in gas chambers during the war. The loyalty of the Allies to the extermination of the Jewish people was summarized by Jan Karski in the words: "The Polish government in London did everything it could to help the Jews. Only this government was powerless not only to help the Jews, but also to preserve the independence of its own country. I will say that the captain of Pilecki developed a plan for the armed release of prisoners in Auschwitz and sought to be executed at the Home Army headquarters, unfortunately also unsuccessfully. Threatened by arrest, he decided to escape from the camp and rejoined the conspiracy and then took part in the Warsaw Uprising. Then he was in three POW camps and after his release, on July 11, 1945, checked into Italy for service with General Anders. Instead of choosing to live in a free world, he wanted to return to occupied Poland by the Soviets as soon as possible, because he wanted to organize an intelligence network here. Of course, he wanted to meet his wife and two children. General Anders needed a proven man who would collect and pass on information about the situation in Poland, and the captain took up this task. Many of these tasks have been carried out and have not left the country despite the threat. He was arrested by the Communist Security Office on 8 May 1947. After a shameful trial, he was sentenced to death. When he heard the verdict, he was gonna say In fact, the resolution also quotes "I have tried to live in such a way that at the time of death I may rejoice rather than be afraid. " Killed by a shot to the back of the head, he is today considered one of the six bravest soldiers in World War II. A witness of the last moments of the Rotmaster's life, Professor Jan Stępień, said: "All prisoners considered him a hero. Those who knew him longer spoke of him as being a saint. During one of his visits, the captain gave his children the words: "Love your motherland. Love your sacred faith and tradition of your own Nation. Grow up to be men of honor, always faithful to the highest values they recognize, which must be served with their whole lives. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, these words are an important message today for all Poles who love their homeland and especially for young people. These words have in their heart students of dozens of schools named Witold Pilecki. In addition to the ceremonial anniversary celebrations related to the rotmaster of the school, these students care very much about raising young people on the foundation of the most important values and obligations towards Poland. For their homeland always and everything, Pro patria semper et omnia. For us, heroes like the Rottmaster Pilecki are examples of the love of our homeland, they restore the memory of the sacrifice and heroism of Poles, show who was the assailant and who was the victim during the war. They're moral heroes. They're a role model. I will tell you more: such heroes are needed especially today, when historical facts are lied to and when Poles are accused of sharing in the extermination of Jews. Finally, I would like to refer to one of the values of the captain Pilecki's faith in God. It is known that he read a book in prison about imitating Christ, Tomasz à Kempis. And he's the one who should be attributed the words of another soldier of integrity, colonel. Lukasz Ciepliński, the last commander of the IV command of WiN, who, while in the same Mokotów prison, wrote to his family, quote: "My deadline is here. I'm completely calm. When they take me away, my last words to my colleagues will be: I am glad to be murdered as a Catholic for holy faith, as a Pole for Homeland and as a man for truth and justice. I believe more than ever that Christ will prevail, that Poland will regain independence, and that the disgraced human dignity will be restored. It's all my fault, my faith and my happiness. The last moments of my thoughts will be only with you, my beloved orphans. I just feel sorry for you guys. I believe that Our Lady will take my soul to her heavenly hosts so that I can continue to serve her and report on the tragedy that was murdered by some who were abandoned by the remaining Polish Nation. In other words, it is known that the condemned prayed and sang every morning when the wounded rose to light. In a word, faith in God also gave them faith in God's justice, that the truth would prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what happened today. In the Senate resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Captain Witold Pilecki, we pay tribute and honor to him as we honor thousands of similar heroes. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymański made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. As announced, we are voting on the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Witold Pilecki. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Captain Witold Pilecki. I'll give you a resolution. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Zofia Pilecka-Optułowicz: Thank you very much for this beautiful...]] [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u10	High Senate, we proceed with the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The text of the Act is contained in print No 822, and the committee report In print No 822 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask all of you to keep your conversations quiet. And your senator, please report back.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 May 2018 amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. On 11 May 2018, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee, which after considering the Act at its meeting on 15 May 2018. asks the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. High Senate, the law by amending the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator reduces the salary of Members of Parliament and of the Senator from an amount corresponding to the remuneration of the Undersecretary of State, excluding allowances for service of years, to an amount of 80% a so-called remuneration. Other amendments made to Article 42 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator are of a technical legislative nature. The new wording of the paragraph. 1 as a consequence of the amendment of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 assumes According to the current wording of the provision, the amount of the allowance is 25%, as a new wording, the amount of the allowance is 25%. the amounts of remuneration of the Undersecretary of State. Repeal of the mouth. 3 takes into account the applicable legal status. In accordance with the laws governing the local government system, the Local Government Act, the Regional Government Act and the Regional Government Act The term of office of the councillor may not be combined with the mandate of a Member or a Senator. Hence, the provision that a parliamentary diet and a dietary allowance may not be taken simultaneously for the exercise of the function of councillor is chosen by a parliamentarian who chooses which diet he will take. It's unobtrusive. The Act is to enter into force on the first day of the second month following the month of publication. The Sejm adopted a law at its sixty-second meeting on 10 May 2018 on the basis of a parliamentary submission recorded in Seym printing No 2460. The project was the subject of work by the Parliamentary Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity. In particular, the Commission extended the vacathio legis to the first day of the first month following the month of publication on the first day of the second month following the month of publication. Another amendment introduced by the committee consisted in the repeal of the Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The Commission took into account that the parliamentary mandate could not be combined with the Councillor's mandate in the current legal situation. At the second reading, six additional amendments were tabled at the Sejm meeting. The amendments re-established, in an alternative way, the amount of parliamentary remuneration. They referred to 2.4 median salaries in the national economy and three times the average monthly salary, as well as a waiver of payment until the end of the current term of office of the Sejm and the Senate and changed the date of entry into force of the Act as of 1 July this year. All amendments were rejected at the third reading. The Act was transferred to the Senate on 11 May 2018. The Act raises no legislative objections. The provisions of the Act are also not governed by European law. No amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u12	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Pociej and Senator Senator, we'll be speaking one by one. Senator Pociej has the floor first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u13	Mr. Senator, I'd like to know if the committee's hearing gave us a reason why this bill was introduced. That's the first question. So what caused us to process it today? And second question: what was the justification that 20% rather than 50% or 10% ? As a result of this 20% ? What can this be compared to? Where's the 20%? ?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u14	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I inform you that the committee's meeting was neither attended by an applicant who represented Members, i.e. Mr Marcin Horała, nor by a representative of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, Mrs Halina Szydleko. In answer to the senator's question, I can only read the justification that the committee had at its disposal. In the current legal situation, the salary of the Member and of the Senator corresponds to the salary of the Undersecretary of State, determined on the basis of the provisions on remuneration of the managers of state positions, excluding the allowance for service of years. The explanatory memorandum then contains what I read by presenting the committee's report. In addition, applicants, i.e. Members, wrote in the explanatory memorandum: The bill is related to social expectations regarding the salaries of Members and Senators. The project has a positive social and financial impact. The revenue of the state budget for reducing parliamentary and senatorial salaries will increase annually by about PLN 13 million. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Unfortunately, I cannot answer the senator's other questions as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u16	Thank you. You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, unfortunately, I could not attend the committee meeting, so I would like to ask you about its course. In the course of the discussion, were constitutional doubts raised about such a reduction in pay when parliamentarians, when vowing, conclude a kind of contract in which certain conditions are laid down, also concerning pay or diet? Have these issues, in this design context, been addressed? Because, according to some lawyers, they are in doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u19	Thank you. Mr President, the issues you mentioned were not raised during the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u20	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, my question is: will ministers also have lower salaries in a similar way? Second question: why are salaries reduced to all Members and Senators and not to those who have paid extra salaries in the form of prizes for two years? And the third question. As an entrepreneur once, in 2000, I did the same because there was a great crisis in construction. Is there an economic crisis in our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u23	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, the issues you have asked to mention go beyond the matter of the bill I report, and therefore I cannot answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u24	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you've read the justification... In fact, there is only one sentence to justify this law: the bill is related to social expectations regarding the salaries of Members and Senators. I would like to know if you have discussed why there is such a social expectation. We know what the opinion is about the work of Members and Senators and... And here, under this bill, 50 Members signed, 50 Members expressed self-criticism, admitted that they were working badly, that they were doing badly... that they were too rare to meet, only once in August, in September, once, in October, as planned, probably once. So the Members are criticizing that they are working badly. We would like to work more often, better not to make laws within 5 hours, as we often do, after the meeting of the Sejm, just have time for it. And it turns out there's no time. As I understand it, we assume this is the fourth reading in the Senate. Members and senators should therefore be reduced to pay them. I'd like to know if you've discussed why there are such expectations. And whether the senators present also feel that they are working badly, not well, too rarely, and that they should have reduced salaries. Thank you. [[You can't listen to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, because, as I mentioned, Mr Marcin Horała, the applicant's representative, was not present at the committee meeting, those doubts you mentioned could not be communicated to the applicant. And the senators participating in the committee meeting had no such doubts themselves, there was no discussion in this matter. As far as the other issues concerning senators are concerned, I think that this question should be addressed either in the discussion or individually to each of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u28	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u29	Mr Marshal, Mr Rapporteur, the salaries of Members and Senators are linked to the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State. Right now, in the government. What the Prime Minister also said The project is being developed to disable the Undersecretaries of State from the group, so-called. erki, i.e. to stop being remunerated according to the rules that apply to remuneration in the government section. This was argued by the fact that the remuneration of the Undersecretaries is low and there is no willingness to work in these posts in the administration. Does this mean that these changes in the salaries of Members and Senators are only temporary, that this is just such a political myk? Because as regulations are introduced that the Undersecretaries of State will have a much higher salary, so that they are willing to work in these positions, the salary of Members and Senators will automatically increase to at least the level at which they are today, or even more, because here there was a clear increase in salaries for Undersecretaries of State. That's one question. And second question. Are all Members and Senators... Does this law apply to all Members and Senators, or is there a group of Members and Senators that will not be covered by this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u30	I'm asking you to answer two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, Mr President, I cannot confirm or deny the information you have provided, i.e. whether such work is ongoing and whether, as a result of this work... [[The Prime Minister has announced...]] ...and whether that's the financial impact for a group of undersecretaries or possibly for parliamentarians. As for the second question, please remind me... Is everyone... [[Does this reduction apply to all Members and Senators?]] Will this include all Members and Senators? From what I have read in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, it appears that this will apply to this group, which is subject to such remuneration... [[You're asking the senator...]] ...so-called. Members of the profession. [[Well, that's the obvious thing. If someone didn't get paid, it's obvious that his case doesn't concern him. So this applies to all Members and Senators?]] As far as I know, yes. [[Thank you very much.]] But there is a question that should now be considered. Namely, the question is whether the remuneration of the members of the Presidents of the two Chambers is subject to the same regulation, because it is not directly described in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[So is that all of them or not all of them?]] With regard to whether everyone or not, this was not the subject of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u32	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, in the explanatory memorandum, it says that these are social expectations, but I would like to ask you about the substance. Perhaps you discussed this at the committee meeting. I am insanely curious why this salary will be reduced by 20%, i.e. it will be de facto 80%. the salary so far. Why 20%, not 75% Or 50%? Social expectations, as I read in the media, in the press, are such that the salary of a Member and a Senator is about PLN 3.5 thousand. Why don't we reduce this salary to PLN 3.5,000? I'd be happy to vote... Would you also vote for such a reduction in salary? Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u34	A group of senators who submitted such a draft legislative amendment recorded this change at 20%. Doubts... [[Senators or MPs?]] Excuse me, a group of Members. The doubts that the senator asked to mention were also raised during the work of the Sejm when Members from various groups presented amendments which were slightly different in their statements, e.g. the method of calculating the salary. There were also some suggestions, as I was saying... One amendment said that until the end of this term of office the allowance should be 0 PLN. These amendments did not find recognition of either the members of the committee, the relevant committee of the Sejm, or in the parliamentary vote, the final result of which was the adoption of this solution. If you ask me how I personally refer to this submission, I will answer that I am in favour of this submission, I support the position of the Members of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u35	The senator wanted to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u36	Mr. Senator, I can't understand the argument that is in the bill of procedure that this solution meets social expectations. There are a lot of social expectations, for example. in the context of recent developments it can be said that 65% Polish society believes that people with disabilities, parents of people with disabilities should receive a benefit of PLN 500. Why do we see such social expectations and do not see other social expectations? Why such a selective field of view for Members of the Law and Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u38	Dear Senator, like you, I have the justification for the bill presented by this group of Members. Mr Marcin Horała was absent from the committee meeting and is absent today, and my possible justification for these precisely could be very subjective. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Final clarification, right?]] [[Yeah, it's final. Mr Senator, while observing Mr Horala's activity, I think that it is justified, at least, for some Members, to think of a particular person, but for all? Thank you.]] It seems that such an extended question goes beyond the matter of the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u39	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u40	Mr. Senator, with all due respect to you and your sympathy, your answers here are ridiculous to the Senate. I'd like to tell you that if you can't answer the question of whether this reduction also applies to the bureau And you just said you don't know that. It was your duty and the duty of the committee to bring Mr Horal down and ask him what he had submitted. Are you telling us you don't know who the submission is about, which one we're going to vote on? Is that what you're telling us? And don't tell me it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. How are we supposed to vote? Who are we gonna ask? Who are we gonna ask? And I'm asking you again, who is this submission? Does it also apply to members of the bureau, or marshals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u41	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u42	The persons mentioned by me, namely both Marcin Horała and Mrs Halina Szydleko, were informed of the date of the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, but the removal of these persons, as you have stated, goes beyond my competence. And the submission that I am presenting and reporting to you concerns amendments to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator at points on how to calculate remuneration so-called. MEPs and senators. [[I'm sorry, but I didn't get the answer to the question of whether it was the bureau or the marshals.]] [[Would you like to clarify, complete the statement?]] This is not included in the draft of this submission. The submission concerns only articles from the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, and concerns a reduction of 20% of the salary of Members and Senators as set out in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[You're asking the senator...]] [[And you didn't ask our Legal Office about that?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] [[All right, here you go.]] [[You didn't ask our legislators at the committee's meeting about this?]] Yes, Mr. Senator, that's not the question we asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u43	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u44	Dear Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask... As far as I can remember, there was a seym project about two years ago. I no longer remember whether it was a government project or a parliamentary project to increase parliamentary and senatorial salaries. Tell me what happened in the meantime, that Law and Justice have changed so dramatically in this matter. And since the justification is what it is, please say: during this time, during the PiS governments, has public opinion changed so dramatically and there is such a negative assessment as regards the work of Members and Senators? Right in this term of office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u46	I can only confirm, Senator, that actually, some time ago, as I understand from what I know, was such a project, and I think it was a parliamentary submission to increase the salary of Members and Senators. As far as the other questions are concerned, as the rapporteur of the committee, I do not feel competent to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u47	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You've been given a difficult role, and lately, you've had some bad roles, so you don't want to bother... I want to ask you why you agree that we should be treated worse than the workers of the code. Because I understand that the employees... The Bureau is working in accordance with the Labour Code because it is chosen and we are treated worse than employees, because I say this as a former trade unionist, if they want to reduce their salary, at least they receive information and justify why they want to be reduced. According to our rules of procedure, our lazy girls, those who do not attend committee meetings or participate in plenary meetings, are being cut off or... My question is this way: if, according to the rules, we're sticking together... Work code... Didn't it occur to you to give us some extra for work at night or in difficult conditions? 'Cause sometimes it's hard to sit here at night and all morning. Didn't it occur to you to give the harder and harder the extra for harmful working conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u50	Senator, these things didn't come into my head, and I can't tell you how they are with the other members of the committee. With regard to this contact between labour law and the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator in the so-called. professionally, I would say that there was also no debate on this issue during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u51	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To be honest, for the first time in my long career as a parliamentarians, I'm at a meeting like this. I'm very sorry for your loss. But we've talked about this before... This is obviously an idiotic meeting, but that's okay. I'd like to ask if you talked at the committee meeting about this... Were there any voices that the Marshal, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, publicly said that this was a public service bill? Was there such a conversation? That's the first question. Second question. Did any of the Senators' colleagues in the governing coalition feel that this law was right and that it was supported and argued? And the third question. Maybe I didn't understand something, but... Do you want to lower the pay of the councillors of the Seymours, mayors, and city presidents? Is this part of this bill? If I'm wrong, I'm asking... [[It's not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u53	Please. [[It's not that... thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u54	Mr. Senator, this bill only changes the provisions of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, and at only one point, I read it in the explanatory memorandum, there is a contact of this... The point is to make it compatible with the so-called records. local laws, because you can't combine the parliamentary mandate and the councilman's mandate at any level. Nor can a parliamentary diet and a councilman's diet be taken at the same time. Other issues during the proceedings of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on that day were not raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u55	The senator wanted to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u56	Yeah, well, actually, I don't... All right, I'll say it in the form of a question. Mr. Senator, we've been parliamentarians for years. Don't you notice that we are part of this change in the picture of the non-work of the Sejm and Parliament at all, even though it is not real? If the press sometimes shows empty seym halls, it doesn't say that we're in meetings, that we're in committees. For so many years working in the Sejm, I have seen the efforts of my colleagues in the Committee on Finance and Health, colleagues from all parties and groups who worked like crazy days and nights. I'm not talking about our meetings anymore. And whether there was a conversation at all about the fact that Members and Senators who do not live in Warsaw live on 2 houses, that often, to become a parliamentarian, they borrow for the so-called. The election campaign that they also have different situations in their lives? Didn't you talk about the fact that an old bachelor might decide about family life? Were such subjects discussed at the committee meeting at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u58	Mr Senator, as regards these positive thoughts about the work of parliamentarians, those sincerely committed to their mission, I confirm them, and I am pleased that you have such an assessment of the work of most parliamentarians. However, you are also aware, as am I, that our work is subject to a very strong social assessment. Often, this assessment is based on the behaviour of individuals, and it seems to be quite unfair. Unfortunately, perhaps it should be so that it is in line with your expectations. At that committee meeting, which I'm reporting, we didn't talk about these things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u59	You're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Elephant. Tell me what's different about the work of a Member and a Senator professional and non-professional. Where did this division come from, and why can people who work and have income from it divide their time and are creative, not be remunerated, even though they have to do the same? Where's the division coming from? What does the Constitution say about equality? Has the committee dealt with this problem? Will she take care of him?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u61	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u62	Mr. Senator, the way a parliamentarian works is defined by the 1996 Act. In the meantime, there were still a lot of changes in this law, but the adopted model of functioning of the parliamentarian is described there. Those who resign from their professional activities or, in accordance with the Constitution, have to resign from this activity may become so-called... This is not in my opinion a code of performance of work, because we did not sign a contract of employment. This is a specific activity as well as a specific activity After all, you probably met with this in the case of the functioning of your office, for example the functioning of the Senator's office. It's hard to qualify this office somewhere, too. Parliamentarians benefit from the possibility that if they give up their professional activities, they will receive the salaries set out in this law. There are also specific cases where this activity is partially suspended or not entirely suspended. Then it is regulated differently, they receive the so-called. diet. I support your doubts about this. Perhaps there is a time for us also to think more about this issue of the contact between labour law and the professional activities of parliamentarians as parliamentarians and to regulate it more, if we can say so, so as not to raise such doubts as yours, for example in a constitutional way. But that, Senator Dear, was not discussed at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u63	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you the following question. Namely, candidates for the Sejm or the Senate of this term and then taking the vows provided that they would receive certain recruitments and would have, for this reason, and their families, certain income. If this bill is passed, signed by your President, it will change. Will this be able to cause individual claims by Members or Senators, including by judicial means, to the Labour Court in view of the fact that these conditions have been substantially changed during the term of office?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u66	Dear Senator, These issues were not addressed at the committee meeting. I believe that at least our Legal Office or labour law specialists will be the right recipient of these concerns. Because, as before, I mentioned Senator Dowhan's questions. There's a code contact here, labour law and the exercise of a mandate. It's hard for me. It's all so individual. To be decided at the moment, and as rapporteur of the committee, all the more so because this thread was not discussed at all during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u67	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u68	Dear Marshal, Mr. Marshal... [[It's not working yet. Oh, now.]] Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to this discussion with embarrassment, because most of our questions are not answered unambiguously. When the answer is inconvenient, you say it wasn't a conversation. I get the feeling there's nothing special to talk about. [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] And I get the feeling that you're sorry for the words. He obeys the order of the head of the party because he said that this amount was to be paid by Members, Senators reduced. But there is one more question that should have a clear answer. Aren't Marshals and Vice-Marshals parliamentarians within the meaning of this law, Members and Senators? Are they, first of all, Members and Senators that this law should include, or are they subject to completely different regulations? From the discussion, what a time You know, it's just, you know, it's like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you had a bureau, you know, you know, you know, you know, you I don't know. The Sejm, to return with the question of what it looks like... We still don't know what it looks like. If you'd be kind enough to answer, if you knew... And if you don't know, perhaps the marshal could answer. And if you don't, maybe it would be worth putting that bill away to get a clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u70	Thank you very much. Senator, I haven't received any orders, I've been selected by... you know what it's like, one of the senators is a project rapporteur. And when it comes to the delegation, that's it. As for the matter of the bill, it's simple. If you have a question for me about what it means to reduce something by 20%, then I can answer that. And I can also answer why this change is going to be 25% now. Undersecretary's salary, and before that it was counted against salary. Well, if it wasn't, this shift down would also be about a parliamentarians' diet. I can answer the question. I've already answered the question related to it. Why are we eliminating the record that you cannot take a parliamentary diet and a councilman's diet at the same time? And there is also the question of the period of entry into force of this law, and I can also answer that question. But like the senator... There was no discussion on matters relating to the functioning of the Presidency, both the Sejm and the Senate, during the committee's deliberations. But I have heard that there have been doubts about this, because the salaries of this group of parliamentarians are somewhat different. And so there are doubts. But this also goes beyond the provisions of the law's amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u71	Would any of your senators like to take the floor and ask any more questions? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u72	That will be in reference to Senator Rotnicka's question. I understand that there has been no debate, no discussion on whether it would be appropriate to amend the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions in addition to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. I ask because this bill also regulates the remuneration of the Sejm and Senate bureau. Did... So I understand that there was no such conversation to work in parallel on a bill that regulates the remuneration of the Sejm and Senate bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u74	Mr President, this is indeed not the conversation. This parliamentary submission, later voted by the whole Sejm, does not apply to that law at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u75	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u76	I'm still here... That's right, because these are the key issues, and we can't get answers to them. Unfortunately, we cannot recall Mr Horala here either. Because it's like this: we can't figure out what those changes were for. If this reduction in wages is to change the image of a Member and a Senator, then, as we have already said, we could go further. And going on... If the only justification here is the issue of social acceptance, then, Mr. Senator, as we go on, we could bring here certificates from our constituency and the results of the vote that would confirm, what is the support, etc., etc. [[Oh!]] So it's not the right way. However, I will clarify what all my colleagues are talking about, because I don't think the whole room can get an answer to that. I mean, members of the bureau, and the Sejm, and the Senate, and what kind of employment contract... Do you have an employment contract at the bureau? What are the terms of employment, or is this a contract, or is this a special contract? I myself was a vice marshal for a short time, and I know what it looked like, so... Well, waiting is clear: explain to us how these two mandates differ and how this will be done in the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u78	Senator, the answers to your questions and doubts could be part of the discussion, a rather subjective reference to such doubts. As rapporteur, I remain merely a reference, colloquially speaking, to those dry records which have been referred to the committee for consideration. The answers to questions such as why, and what will happen when we provide the certificates, go beyond the report of the committee meeting. Anyway... Here's a little bit of digression. Many parliamentarians in the Sejm also supported your reasoning and your doubts, either they did not vote at all or they voted against. Well, in this way I can relate to it, I can say that the adoption of these solutions in the Sejm was not unanimous, not accepted by the acclamation, so there were some doubts. But that's what making the law is all about, because it's the law that makes the majority. And what's the difference between a ticket... I don't think it's any different, but you were also a vice marshal. The way in which this mandate is being carried out. The representatives of the bureau receive special powers from the House, and already the powers of the Marshal of our House, with our consent and consent, of course, are very important. But I don't want to be here on some... [[But the question is, why? What's that for?]] Well, I'd like to avoid answering the question why, because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Go ahead, I don't know, I don't know...]] That's... For each rapporteur, whether it concerns traffic law issues or issues relating to other legislative solutions, the answer to the question why is difficult. [[Tough assignment.]] [[Not all of them...]] Especially for the rapporteur presenting the position of several dozen fellow Members who have tabled this proposal. I can't tell either of them if any of them would answer the same question. These are not changes of the technical type, for example. We put a dot instead of a comma. These are not changes of the technical type. Therefore, the answer to the question, why, is for me as rapporteur in this case... If I still have the strength, I will probably take the floor in the discussion, but for me, as rapporteur, answering this is at least awkward, because there is not even a representative of the applicants who could verify whether my reasoning and answer to this question are in line with his expectations as an applicant and where to think about getting shot into the arguments of each applicant. Perhaps each of them had a different argument, but she submitted such a request, such a submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u79	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u80	Mr Senator, 55 Members have been able to provide a single-handed justification. You say we could ask, of course we don't have that possibility. In any case, the justification is one sentence, and the fact that the PiS ministers have taken the prizes, called the second salaries, and that all Members and Senators are to be punished for it, we know that. We know that maybe the marshals, too. But my question is: why should the self-governments also be punished? That was Mr. Szymanski's question. This is an interesting case, because local government officials receive salaries on different terms, they are adopted by individual councils, whether it's the communes or the county or by the sejmik of the voivodship. Therefore, I fear that they will have legitimate claims on their wages. Because as far as Members and Senators are concerned, as Mr Szymański has asked, there may be doubts, but I think there will be no such doubts about local government officials. So we can meet with claims about self-government. And yet the issue itself concerned, as we know, these second salaries and therefore is the punishment of Members and Senators, but the question is why self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u82	Thank you. Senator, when we vote on these solutions, we are certainly not going to vote on a reduction or even a change in the salaries, pay of local government officials. That's a completely different rule. Will there be any problems there? Well, sometimes solutions and regulations that go to local governments do not meet with understanding and acceptance 100%. Perhaps these solutions, which may be affected by local governments, will also not meet with 100% acceptance. But in our country, there are also certain activities that they can take according to law. And if, Mr Senator, those self-government officials you mentioned consider that their rights should be recognised as acquired rights, they will probably pursue their rights, just as any other worker in Poland has the right to pursue those rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u83	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u84	It is, Mr. Senator, that, as you pointed out, there is no representative of the applicants, it is reprehensible, not justified. But if you won't tell us why, then I'll ask: why? And why, for what reason was this bill presented to the Senate? I would also like to ask you to explain how to understand today's statement by Marshal Karczewski, made after the meeting of the Senior Convention, that there will be a request to the President to lower the Sejm and the Senate's salary... salary. Well, if that were the case, it would be the legal gap that colleagues had asked about earlier that would fill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u86	This justification, which we all got, is actually rather shortcut. However, it is difficult, Mr President, by developing this justification, not to confirm that we have actually had a broad discussion in our country recently about the level of salaries of political people, people in high government positions. And I think so. This is my subjective opinion, because I did not consult with the applicant or any other Member. On this basis too, on the basis of this broad discussion, this group of Members has drawn such conclusions that there is such a social expectation. That's all there is to it. In that second part of the speech, Mr President said something about which, well, I didn't... As I did not attend the convention meeting, I did not know that such a request was being prepared for the President. I agree with your opinion that if such proposals were to be made in parallel with the Sejm and Senate Presidency, they could close the gap that the Senators had previously referred to. Because then, in fact, this way of calculating remuneration for the members of both chambers of office may be amended. And it cannot be changed, as it has been said before, by this law on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[If you don't mind me asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u87	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u88	But it would have to be a legislative initiative. [[I think... if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u89	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u90	Mr President, I think this is what these speeches to the President are supposed to do to prepare the right path to achieve this goal, so that all parliamentarians, regardless of their functions in Parliament, are covered by this 20% reduction in salaries, regardless of how these salaries are charged. If that's payback. Well, some parliamentarians only take diets, so they're not gonna be, necessarily, concerned. But all those who get paid would be. And I think that the response of the presidents to this request will be crucial here in terms of finding a path to achieving such a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u91	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u92	Mr President, Senator rapporteur, you have repeatedly said that you limit your speech only to reporting what happened at the committee meeting. But I know, and it's not just me that you can do better than that. In this respect, for example, the committee's meeting was an accident when it came to time, because it only lasted a few seconds, among other things. many could not reach with their proposals or proposals. I'm not sure either. And that's the first question. Mr Horała, or fiscal whistleblower, was at this meeting of the committee. [[Voice from the room: No.]] He wasn't at the committee meeting. [[He wasn't there, but...]] Did he provide an excuse for such a measure as... e.g. Do you think he's after the VAT guys now? Because that's the only excuse. But you don't have to answer. Well, he should at least justify himself, even out of respect for his fellow senators, also from the PiS, to say why he won't be present to answer questions that you really find difficult to answer right now. And the House has no full knowledge of intent and justification. And my second question. I would like to ask, inter alia, whether, by caricaturing this reduction exclusively by Members' salaries, the distinguished Mr Horała had in mind that this is a compact system. You yourself mentioned that the appointment of a Member and a Senator depends on the appointment of the Undersecretary of State. I also know this from something else, from chimney laws. Local government officials and others, the president and other institutions, are also involved. And now, destroying it unilaterally or at one point, in fact, there is a loophole that doesn't mean that it's illogical. And was it the subject of such reflection that, as a result of what we are talking about here, we should equal or reduce everything else, which is related to this famous Undersecretary of State? And one more question. If this is undoubtedly a punishment, or may it be considered a punishment, will the Undersecretaries of State also be reduced in return? [[Voice from the room: On the contrary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u93	Please. [[For punishment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u94	Mr President, once again, I confirm your doubts. That was also the committee's doubts. No invited representatives of the applicants or representatives of the Sejm Committee have appeared. Because the bill also had its presence on the committee and went back there to consider the amendments... They didn't show up. As far as I know, there are no excuses. As far as your undersecretaries are concerned, that's their salary. It is indeed a reference point here, but this is just a reference point. [[I'm filing a formal application for...]] It's not regulated in this bill. It's a reference point, but it's not kind of regulated in this bill. It may change over time, but it does not affect the methodology for determining remuneration. As far as this broader discussion is concerned, I think it was the senator's doubts. Perhaps we have reached a point where it is worth looking at all of this, at every level. We see that there are various kinds of disturbing phenomena, e.g. in local governments, where those who are responsible for very little have much more than those who run large local governments. Many of the local government officials who manage local government institutions have a much higher salary than the heads of local government. This discussion also takes place in government circles. She doesn't belong only to the parliamentary and government authorities of this term. These issues concern the discussions that have been held properly during each term of office. For what reason appeared the so-called. Chimney solutions? They appeared because they looked from the side to something that went beyond any control. I confirm your doubts. This is my subjective feeling, and I'm not saying it as a rapporteur. We've got to try and sort this out. Mr Senator, the same was true of the votes of the Members who wanted to regulate in some way... to find another reference to the calculation of remuneration. And it triggered some kind of discussion. So far this discussion has been, I'd say, hidden somewhere. Now the discussion is being held openly. How should this be calculated? Should it be charged in respect of the remuneration of the Undersecretary of State, or should it be calculated on the basis of the standard of living of citizens, expressed at least in the lowest salary, average salary or any other but corresponding to the level of wealth of citizens? This is a good reason for this discussion to be held. It is not said that there is no need to continue to work on this system. Since we take into account the expectations of citizens, it should be more readable and considered fairer and thus also accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u95	It's a complimentary... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u96	Mr. Marshal, formal motion. Discussing this problem clearly shows that you With all due respect to the Senator, the rapporteur It is not able to demonstrate to us the intentions of the law's creators and what is behind the calculations and justifications, which are not complete. The High House is not able to make a thoughtful decision under such conditions. I ask the Marshal to order a break and appeal, to recall, whatever you call it, the famous Mr Horala or others, in order to provide the House with information that the Senator rapporteur is unable to present. I'm asking you to order a recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u97	Mr Senator, Members do not have the right to speak in our House. I find your request unfounded. I don't manage a break. You're asking Senator Napieralski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. Question two, I'll start from the end. It just occurred to me that you said that there are a lot of ambiguities or discussions that are going on to build a whole system of remuneration in the public and political sectors. Well, then why don't we do it now that there's this bill and that's what the senators are calling for, at least during this discussion? You admitted it yourself. You were just talking about it. It is not written in such a way that Poles and Poles also feel good about it in the sense that we reward a local governmentman, a senator, a Member and we know why we do it according to the conversion factor. You said, and that attracted my attention, e.g. a possible combination of wages and average wages in the country, which would be fair. Both chambers make sure that the Poles and Poles live their lives as best as possible, and their salaries also increase because they are linked to the national average. So perhaps you will answer me the following question: do you not think it would be worthwhile to suspend this law now and do what you just said, namely a comprehensive review of all these matters or all the areas that we could conclude and regulate in this law when it comes to remuneration? And the first question I'd like to ask. I listened to Senator Szymański's question about these possible complaints. At first it seemed incredible to me that it might be, but life writes different scenarios. And imagine this scenario, that some people from this House and the Lower House, or the Sejm, will not run or enter Parliament, or will not be placed on these lists, or will change their life plans. Today I assume that none of the politicians who sit in this House will try to seek their rights, but if he is no longer a politician, he will no longer sit in the Senate or in the Seym, then perhaps he will sue the Polish state. Senator Szymanski took an oath here, took a vow to the senator and the senator... Well, then what? What we're gonna look like, when all of a sudden, for example. 100 people and those who voted against this law will have a legal basis, in my opinion. I don't know much about the law of work, but I can imagine something like that... In your opinion, Senator, how will the Polish state look when its representatives simply sue them to the labour court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u99	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u100	Thank you very much. First or second? There might be another one. As for the suspension of this work and these comprehensive solutions, I think that one and the other is not in contradiction. It doesn't bother you that these solutions are now being adopted. I personally identify with this part of the justification which speaks about social expectations, because I also met with such expectations and with such perceptions, among others. politicians, parliamentarians, that these are people whose salaries are much higher than those of the rest of society. That's probably the argument for applicants, too. I, Senator, didn't say I was in favour of one or another. It was in the context of a conversation with Senator Rulewski. I was talking about the fact that such requests were made in the course of the Parliament's work. So the issues of public and political wage regulation are likely to require that they be dealt with by now. 'Cause if you're having a discussion across the country, it's all about different reasons. On the amount of remuneration, how they are awarded And on this basis, the representatives of many circles later make such a conclusion that it is worth doing something about it, they begin to see that there is something crackling there, that is some reason for such a social discussion. But it doesn't bother me... The desire to look for comprehensive solutions that are socially acceptable and fair does not prevent us from adopting such a solution now. They can be called self-limiting. It is probably the first time in history that parliamentarians themselves have made such a reduction. I wouldn't want my report to be such a polemic because... you know, High Izbo, that's not what the rapporteur's job is to share his subjective feelings. From these questions it is clear that we are getting more and more involved in this subject and we are discussing more and more, such as the one that Senator Napieralski asked to mention earlier was signalled by Senator Szymański. That is, the link between labour law and the implementation of the mandate and the possible consequences of such arrangements. I can't relate to that right now. Many of these issues are governed by laws. Perhaps someone interested, especially one who is not satisfied, will seek solutions so that his reason is taken into account and that his expectations are met as one who does not agree with certain regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u101	Is Mr. Marshal reporting for questioning, or... [[No.]] Senator Klich is listed as the next questioner.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u102	Come on, Mr. Senator, we're in trouble. There are no applicants at the Senate, and you are the only person we can ask about matters that concern all parliamentarians. [[Or the committee.]] The most important question is what is the justification for this change. Is she justified by the fact that the opposition has revealed an unethical and illegal leap of government ministers to Prime Minister Szydło's money... [[Oh, come on.]] ...through prizes that have been awarded, or... [[Mr. Marshal, please respond, because the President is not telling you the truth.]] ...this results for some other reason, e.g. Wanting to organize... [[What nonsense?]] [[Wait a minute.]] ...as Marshal Terlecki said... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] [[Question, please formulate.]] ...actions for the public? We have a right to know what this is all about. [[Don't lie...]] And that's why some of us are asking why, and others are asking why. [[What's your question for the senator?]] [[Question!]] I didn't get the answer from you, Senator, to the question of why... I repeat the question: why, what is the reason for this law? Thank you. [[Because it was the need.]] [[A precise question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u104	Mr President, this is your assessment of those situations you mentioned. I was talking about the fact that recently there has been a wide public debate across our country about how to pay, how to reward leading people in the country, including politicians, government representatives and parliamentarians. That's all you'll admit. In recent times, it is hardly surprising that a group of Members is preparing for the social needs... You will admit that there weren't many voices that said they had a very broad meaning. It's not much, and they need to be hit. The social expectation is that the pay gap, the salary... It's about people having a sense of justice. I am built up by the attitude of those Members who have decided to start with each other, who have given such a real answer to this social demand. I also talked today about the fact that it doesn't bring up a lot of applause. Many environments have responded differently to this. And that's by leaving the room, and that's by not voting. For most, however, this is a challenge that needs to be faced with a raised head. If you want to reform a system, you have to start with yourself. I fully support this justification because I have met such social expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. There's no one else to speak to. Thank you, sir. [[Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, because during our deliberations a question was asked about the salaries of the members of the Senate Bureau, I would like to ask the senator, Mr Stanisław Karczewski, to speak and answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u106	I would also like to speak in this mode of replica, because Senator Klich, as usual in his political malice, uses false, untruthful, even lying terms. You must not speak in the upper chamber, Senator. And it's outrageous that you say that. I'm talking about a cashier's heist. Nobody's ever made a money heist anywhere. Nobody stole or did anything illegal. If you have any evidence that someone did something illegal, please report it to the D.A.'s office. Don't speak such nonsense and nonsense here in the upper room. I know there was a question about whether, as a marshal, I asked the president to change the pay of the bureau. I'll do it immediately after we've passed this bill. I don't want to claim the facts. I did not do it before, but I will do it after, so that this reduction in remuneration is proportional to the reduction in salary, which concerns Members and Senators, so that the members of the bureau, i.e. the Marshal and Vice-Marshals, are also parliamentarians. In our case, senators, and in the case of the Sejm Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wach will be the first to speak. [[...in response mode, Mr. Marshal, because I was called by my name.]] [[Cannot be answered in response mode.]] [[Cannot be answered in response mode.]] There's no such thing here. You may speak in a discussion mode. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In discussion mode. I give the floor to Senator Wach. There you go. [[The Marshal has escaped...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there is a debate on the state of the rule of law in our country. It's been happening for over two years. We even hosted the Venice Commission. The same is true in Europe The European Parliament held a debate on this subject twice, and the European Commission is considering, or at least considering, the application of the Article. 7 in relation to Poland in connection with the failure to respect the rule of law. The bill we're working on. I have no doubt that it will be adopted, and it gives us a simple answer and proves that the rule of law in Poland has actually fallen. This bill is evidence of incapacity and of Members and Senators. It's an event. It's the first time. One person in the State may appear on television, announce such a step and then be carried out freely by both chambers of parliament. Whoever has doubts about this is going to have a perfectly clear answer tomorrow. Similarly, things are happening with the government and that is why I am talking about the whole rule of law here. The government reportedly returned the prizes that belonged to him because one person demanded it. And the fact that they belonged, we heard from the Prime Minister. As regards the closure of this triangle of power, I will say that the Member, the Minister of Justice, directed the posting of candidates to the National Council of Courts and, at the same time, the same person dismissed the Presidents of the courts and the directors of the courts, and recently presented us with a bill which was voted out here, actually demolishing the Supreme Court. This complements the image of the rule of law. So now we see what it's like. And anyone from the outside, anyone who has doubts, should be familiar with this law, the procedure for its procedure, including the replies of the rapporteur. Yesterday, before the Senate of the United States, Mrs Georgette Mosbacher, candidate or candidate for the United States ambassador in Poland. She had a number of questions, a number of answers, also controversial ones, but she said, among others. that she is ready to express her concerns about the state of the rule of law in Poland. And with regard to the state of our Parliament, his, so to speak, decision-making and independence, this law actually gives an excellent argument that our parliament is incapacitated by one person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u109	Senator Rulewski will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Wach, I strongly protest against your protest that one person in Poland, even under these conditions, could be anything, breaking the rule of law. And I say, as long as we're alive, we won't accept it. In this case, I look into the eyes of the Senator rapporteur and others, and there is a state of embarrassment. This is the embarrassment that results from the decision of a man, otherwise known to me, of many advantages, of many positive qualities, of a man who, in a state of incomplete health, almost from a hospital bed, threw a password, a slogan, not even a dogma. Because I, a man supposedly associated with populism, understand the power of dogma or even populism. When I'm afraid I have to summon this man. Lenin threw the word equality in the carat's face, he was right. It was a demagogue that everyone was supposed to be equal, but he was right in the carat. When everyone in the area of social policy says, especially pensioners, some pensioners, that they all have the same stomachs, so they should have equal pensions, they are also right, but partly and only in relation to a certain context. I've been preaching, too. And I've kept it up so far. That all children are equal and parental benefits and other allowances should be given equally... Why else would I... Kids have equal... This concerns those children who have parents and those who don't have parents, those who get alimony and those who don't get alimony. So such slogans, not demagogy, actually reigned in parliamentarianism as a result of a certain, I would say, dangerous collusion which took place already at the beginning of the formation of the Third Republic. It could be read in the Gazeta Wyborcza, and now late returns in the form of saving his tenth election of President Kaczyński... On the way, of course, there were newspapers, tabloids, where they couldn't write anything right, because there are no journalists, but there are editors. Therefore, the main topic of Polish democracy, and in this case of parliamentarianism, was the salaries, salaries of Members, as well as councillors, and all other politicians. I don't agree with that. I do not agree, even for this reason, that as before President Kaczyński I am a pro-stateman. In Poland at present there are few institutions which are consistently and professionally engaged in Poland, Poland as a whole. Of course we have self-governments, counseling... They take care of part of Poland. But a parliament, called, especially by the right side, the sovereign of the nation, something more than just an institution, perhaps the first institution, every day, always, and I think that with responsibility, as we ourselves are able to express it, He cares, cares about Poland. Similarly, media, church and voters, although only their minority and only on the occasion of elections. That is why the quality of these institutions is so important for the formation of the Polish state, which in its thousand-year history, apart from beautiful, wonderful deeds, bursts, blood, had actions... The elites were sold, hanged on ambassadors, generals or foreign states. And it can be assumed that this throwaway, this slogan is wrong to exist. No, dear Senators, I am already in this political-time and life space, that I can tell Mr Kaczyński: we are going to competition, who will take less from Poland. We were getting, many of you and one of you, and on the other side, a snout from the communist authorities. We'll take that punch in the mouth from Kaczyński. And we're gonna add more from us, just like we used to. Don't let him do a modesty and savings contest. The Polish state itself costs a lot in terms of its functioning, but I do not throw it away. Don't make a vain discussion in society that here sits a layer of third-class vacuum cleaners who does nothing else but make money on politics. And I can accuse him of who he promoted in Orlena for a lot of money? It was his personal decision. We know who he's promoted and how fast he even cut his salary. So then... [[Are you still talking about that, Senator?]] That's for example. You may not know this, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to do this, especially at the end of my business, to tender for what I should receive. I just express my concern after all these years that the political class, undoubtedly the elite... But what elite? This is the elite who first have to pass the verification in a party or in some election teams, then pass the verification during the election, and then rely only on it to perform functions, of course, at least one term. I would like to talk about a circular initiative. For this elite, it is important to have some stability, to build a concept. These are Members and Senators, but not only those who serve for many years. After many years, they cease to be some professional value. I think, among other things. about yourself, an engineer who'll never be an engineer again because he's lost his properties. And I also think, not of mine anymore, because I still have an old Graceful retirement, like Andrzej Star and I say, very good... Because after what the liberals do, I probably wouldn't get a pension at all. Well, I think of those people who devote themselves to Poland, lose contact with the profession, sometimes wonderful, profitable, that they should even make an offer for old age, when they can't do anything, and the society behind the next slogan author will tell them that they should go to unemployment benefits because they screwed up Poland. And that is why I propose, ladies and gentlemen, what all people in Poland can have or have: occupational pension schemes for Members and Senators, office workers, as well as employees of both firms. Some of us are already enjoying this right today. Where's the money coming from? Well, 12 million as a result of this slogan will remain in the firm's budget. I propose that this be used as a contribution for all those Members and Senators who, after many years of service of Poland, the necessary service of Poland... Because it's not like they're... Yes, they do it by choice, but also by an ideal necessity, without thinking about old age and retirement. Is this some kind of new institution? No. First, it already exists and is covered by Polish law Lots of people. There are 1 000 50 employee programs. Secondly, in the West, in those democracies, among others. in the European Parliament and, as I read, in the American and Canadian parliaments And these are liberal states, we're talking about America or England, and we're making sure that this political class is of high quality, so that politicians don't have to be a beggar for old age, and that it's not an example of how far you forget those who were worried about them, what they were fighting about. Because it's not like that, ladies and gentlemen, that we're sitting in these chairs and discussing our wages. This board, it's right there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there, it's up there. In Palmirach, it indicates that people like you and me were the first victims of violent murders. That needs to be calculated, too. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator, time has to be calculated as well.]] Yes, we have to calculate the time. I'm done here, and I'm making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u111	Thank you very much. That's a great ending. Senator Comfort. [[I don't think he's here.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator, Minister Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we're debating a pretty specific bill today and, you might say, small. If a group of Members spontaneously, to the glory of their homeland, decides to lower their salaries to themselves and colleagues, then it seems that it is only necessary to applaud such an idea of selfless service to the country, but unfortunately it is not. This bill is minor, but I'm saying it with great regret. In this whole procedure, or in this process related to its adoption in my opinion as in the lens, as in such an academic example, all irregularities and the lack of seriousness of our public life are concentrated. And it is here in the Senate that I would like to reflect for a moment. What's wrong with us? Unfortunately, this bill is a tangible example of the fact that something bad is happening. Unlike your professor, Senator Wach, I do not believe that this bill is a nail to the coffin of the Polish rule of law. She does not violate the rule of law in my view, but unfortunately she is an example of populism, which has not yet led anyone to anything good. But let's start with genesis. Genesis is known. It was those miserable prizes. It's unfortunate, but it's legal. I appreciate the fact that our colleague, Senator Czarnobaj, apologized yesterday at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee for using the words 'lew money', which have already become a circular slogan. There was no left money. It was legal, it was legal wages, but they triggered certain emotions and opposition, your colleagues from the opposition... Well, in the Senate it was less visible, but the parliamentary and non-plenary opposition, I would say, I felt the blood, warmed up the emotions, appealed to the lowest instincts, causing a wave of populism, a worse, scandalous populism, ladies and gentlemen, and that is a fact. The opposition overlooked it as if they had not realized in this passionate wave of teasing the rulers... You haven't noticed, you haven't noticed that you're cutting the branch you're sitting on. Why? Because in a normal country, such as Poland, in the system in which we operate today, opposition is part of power, part of the system of power. We are completely forgetting this, but it is tangible proof that it is part of the power, for example, that opposition Members take the same allowance as coalition Members, etc., etc. You are part of the government and you are also responsible for Poland, although, of course, you are less responsible than the governing coalition. The quality of the opposition has, indirectly, a very important relation to the quality of government. The weaker the opposition, the... Well, it's gotta bounce back in a while. And that's what we're experiencing. This also affects the quality of governance. A wave of populism has been triggered, which, unfortunately, I must say with double regret, the ruling coalition, we as a united right, responded with populism. We responded with populism to populism. Unfortunately, there was a statement of vox populi, vox Dei, functioning in our culture. Ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean? The voice of the people should be listened to. I believe, I am convinced, that at least part of our success in the last 2 years results from the fact that we have been able to listen better to the voice of the people, we have had better contact with the community in recent years, with Polish citizens than our competitors. That's a big plus. However, a politician, a statesman cannot act mechanically, on the basis of vox populi, vox Dei. Well, history is ruthless here. The voice of the people, I would say, on a sharp horse rides, on Palm Sunday, the people cry out Gloria!, and on Friday, crucify!, etc., etc. The role of politics is to listen to the voice of the people and at the same time to make decisions balanced and rational for the common good. Otherwise, we're dealing with populism, which, as I said... I do not know an example from history that would show that populism has led a community to something good. There's a lot to be said about the effects of populism here, but that's all I'm gonna say. For populist reasons, as a result of an unreasonable and basically infantile, direct struggle, we have launched a process that, as I say, is a lot of consequences. It changes the nature of the Polish parliament, as my previous speaker, Senator Rulewski, also said. Ladies and gentlemen, this changes the nature of the Polish parliament. This isn't about money, although money is important in all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the importance of family, that for family we want to do everything, they follow ideas and these ideas materialize. Since family is important, then... well, we're materializing our conviction of the importance of family, giving 500 PLN to the second child, etc. And if we reduce, we take a salary to parliamentarians... Ladies and gentlemen, it was invoked two years ago, there was a rational proposal to raise salaries to parliamentarians. It was perfectly rational, but we chickened out, we chickened out, there wasn't enough courage to justify it rationally so that the coalition would meet with the opposition to say so. Ladies and gentlemen, once parliamentarians earned in proportion, I do not know, about 25 thousand PLN, i.e. Five national averages, and they're about to make a salary and a half. An institution where someone makes $25,000, and the same institution where someone makes $7,000, that's... Whoever has dealt with institutions where there are still competitions knows that this is just another institution, this is a depreciated institution. Are you sure we want to depreciate the role of parliament? Or maybe we're just trying to say - It's possible. That service in parliament is such an honor, so let the people themselves stay there, let those who can afford it go there? It is an idea; in history there have been such ideas. But is that what we want? Is that consistent with our program? We're not thinking about it, we're acting blindly. And this is a very disturbing matter. In the face of such action, which means such consequences for matters and for state institutions... Well, you can't miss it. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the results of the vote on this bill today in the Senate, I still do not lose hope that discussion is possible in Poland. Here it was said that the discussion was started, but it was not a discussion, it was a wave of exchange of blows and populism, as if playing populism. I believe and I would like to believe that it is possible to discuss that it is possible to meet coalitions with opposition, that it is possible to think about how these matters should work. This reflection should have a wide scope after almost 30 years of functioning of Polish parliamentarianism in this issue. We have a possible... There is a framework for such a discussion. The President invites you to a constitutional discussion. It's not looking good yet. So far, the main constitutional problem is the election date, whether they're gonna be eleven or another day, that's the point. Well, this is ridiculous. I would appeal to my colleagues in the opposition to be persuaded to have such a discussion, because populism I'm gonna say it again. Nor does it serve the opposition. I hope that this discussion will also be possible on our side and that, as I said, regardless of the results of today's vote on public and public affairs in Poland, we will simply take it more seriously than in this case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I say what I'm about to say, I'm gonna refer to Mr. Klich's statement about this money heist. Well, that's disgusting. The truth is what Prime Minister Beata Szydło said. I'm just gonna say two sentences. I spoke to one of the undersecretaries. He said he had a salary of $5,000. I know he leaves in the morning before 7:00 p.m., comes back to the hotel after 10:00 p.m., he's out of the house from morning to evening; five times a month he goes home because he's out of his family. Well, he's not going to go to TLK because he's still there all day... The pendolino drives 5 times a month, so 1 thousand 500 zlotys spend on a ticket because no one pays it back, which leaves it with 3,000 500 zlotys. And this so-called one. The money heist, Mr. Klich, looked like these employees got this average because once a year they got this award... On average, it turned out to be PLN 2,2,5,000, so it wasn't a bank heist. In fact, he may have 5,000 500 zlotys left in his hand. I don't know if any of you want $5,000 from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. every day to be out of the house. [[We were.]] So it wasn't a bank heist. That money really did belong. And now you're asking why there's a reduction. It's because of your populism. Like Mrs. Beata Szydło said, we were in cemeteries, we didn't do business at CPN. And for you, billions have been leaking out of the budget for eight years. That 500+ could have been eight years ago. There was no money, because there was just looting in broad daylight. You're the ones who've been doing populism, and now you've reversed the situation, and you're saying that the PiS has made a heist out of money. It is precisely the result of your populism today that we want to show that there is a reduction. That's all there is to it. And now I'm gonna say something that might sound immodest. In advance, I do not regret the reduction in these salaries. I don't regret it at all, but I won't be falsely modest and I'll say this: all my life as much as we take here a month, I spent my private money on charity, social and political activities. Now that I'm in Parliament, I've got the benefit of... well, I don't have the money, because all the money I'm getting from my salary is spent. I have the benefit of not taking my own money, not taking my own poop. It's just such a benefit, so I don't regret this reduction. And now I'm going to tell you how I'm going to vote. I will not vote against this bill because you have spoken to me about money, but I will not vote for it either. I will abstain because as if I voted in favour of this bill, I would confirm that I am mediocre that I do not deserve this money. Because if you lower someone's salary... Well, it would be humiliating to me, a suggestion that I don't deserve that money. I don't think you should pay at all, because this is service. Serving the state, serving the nation is an honor. I'd just do 5,000 zlotys of diet, and I'd put up with my salary at all, and then any parliamentarian could do some work, work, not be banned. And that wouldn't be humiliating for a parliamentarian because it's an honor to serve you. We'd just get a diet, and that would be fine. But I also know what the situation is. There are many good, decent people who can do something for Poland and do not have the opportunity to earn money elsewhere, and they have to earn money because they have families. So I ask: who will come here for PLN 5 and 6 thousand to work? It's gonna be a negative choice, or there's gonna be smart guys coming over who think maybe they're gonna roll some ice cream on the side, colloquially speaking. That's how I see it. Well, we can't do the old country, because even in the way we've always said, poor Romania... I don't need a car, but that's where every Member has a driver with a car, right in this poor Romania. I don't need it, I don't need the money, but I know there are people who have a few kids, and they don't have the opportunity to make money. So I'm asking, who of the sensible people will want to come here for PLN 6,000? It's just to be clear, depreciating the rank of parliamentarians. I guess that's it for now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u115	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. [[He's not here.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator Klich. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Senator Libicki? There it is. And I think that's gonna be the last speaker. Yes, Senator? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a reduction in parliamentary salaries and it could be summed up by this famous Polish saying that the blacksmith was guilty and the Gypsy was hanged. 'Cause it's about the bonus that it all started with. I'm not exactly critical of that, and I'm about to say that about the ministers and members of the government, not the parliamentarians that we're going to be lowering today. In a way, this gypsy is already hanging. I was asked by a local governmentman from my constituency. I didn't even know that. For me to say that they have already been affected by the reduction of salaries, it has already affected those people who worked for years for the success of the Polish government, they have already received their salaries by 20% lower. So that's the gypsy guy. Not a blacksmith. It's already been hanged here, and it's in such an extremely impressive way. Now it's a bonus issue. As far as these bonuses are concerned, at least for me the problem was not that these bonuses were granted, but the problem was that these bonuses were made of an automatic mechanism for raising parliamentary salaries. That's the problem. And you just had to have the courage and determination to do it. We're on our side, too. To stand up and say, we think these salaries are too low, we want to raise them. That's not how you put it in the back door, without informing the public, and creating some kind of artificial mechanism. In fact, that was the main mistake of these bonuses, not the fact that someone thought someone was working well. Because as for this, every boss has the right to assess the work of his employee as he thinks. And now I think to myself this way: if we want to regulate this issue, we need to ask citizens what citizens want. And there is also a need to provide citizens with certain information. And this information is that this current level of parliamentary salaries was passed, as I recall, in 1993, 25 years ago. It is therefore necessary to inform the public that there is a social group in Poland, which is called the Parliamentarians, and which has not had a raise in 25 years, but on the contrary. Here I will remind you that once again there was a 13th salary, but this 13th salary was abolished, probably on the initiative of Prime Minister Tusk. And I'd like to talk about that, too. I would also like to say that, because of this thirteenth salary, my father's salary, who became a Member in 1997 and that was 21 years ago, was greater than mine today. I'm not saying whether it's right or wrong, it's just that in this discussion we also need to give this information to the public. I also think this way: I've been surprised lately. And this, of course, raises the interest of many. Because from a conversation with the director of a large hospital in Poznań I learned that he has a nurse who works well, not somehow hard, but well and has enough hours, earns PLN 6,000 per hand. And we're gonna have to take that down. I'm talking about the salary, we're going to have, if I've counted it correctly, 5,000 600 zlotys. I consider the work of a nurse to be extremely useful socially and valuable, but the work of a parliamentarians seems equally valuable to me, and in some respects may also be more important. I think that in the debate on how this issue should be regulated, we should also say to the public that there are two models on this issue. One model is one in which we recognize that the role of parliamentarian is a function of prestige, honor and service, and then, as I understand it, we only give a certain parliamentary diet, and we don't give any salaries at all. But then there's a risk. No, for some risks, for others not In politics there will be people with a recognised material situation, i.e. people who are wealthy who can afford it. This is a variant, and it is necessary for the public, so to speak, to present such a possibility. And the second possibility is that a parliamentarians will pay well. One of these models simply needs to be decided in this debate, we need to ask the public: do we want, graphically speaking, the Donald Trump model, but do we want such a model that parliamentarians are well paid? It seems to me that we are also very often talking about the fact that relatively few young people go into politics. Well, if this decision is passed today, I think it's going to be even less, because if a young man has an example. buy an apartment or keep a couple of people's families, it's gonna be pretty hard with that salary. He's gonna be, I think, looking for other areas of professional realization than politics. I want to be clear: I am in favour of settling this once and for all. And here I would like to look at the proposal that, I understand, you made on behalf of Mr Duda, Minister Dera, who said that he invites all political groups to discuss the parliamentary salaries that would apply in the next term. I think that's a good solution. If I were to recommend something to the authorities of my party, I would recommend accepting this invitation from the President, taking part in this discussion, and once and for all to decide whether we want to give parliamentarians only a diet and consider it an honorary and social function, or whether we believe that parliamentarians should be congratulated, so to speak, as high as a certain social prestige of this function. Finally, I want to say yes. I'm an old bachelor, I'm not single, I'm an old bachelor. President Kaczyński, the initiator of this solution, is also an old bachelor. As an old bachelor, I wouldn't find enough determination to set family budgets for people burdened with big families. I'm looking here at Senator Spider, who has nine children, and I'm thinking of you as Senator... [[There's one thing we don't know.]] Excuse me? Eight, sorry, I made a mistake. [[...to correct the senator may speak.]] Yeah, yeah. I'm thinking about Senator Jackowski, who, I understand, has six daughters. And I repeat... [[Five daughters.]] Five, okay, that's a mistake too. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Misinformation, Senator.]] Okay, I'm sorry. I want to say yes. Really, the prospect of an old bachelor is a distorted perspective on how families work, on the basis of the budget. I want to make it clear that you are really making decisions on the basis of a budget decision of someone whose perspective on everyday life is disturbed, as is mine. I would not find such determination, but, as I understand it, here we are different with President Kaczyński and probably will stay that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek. [[Senator Spider.]] In corrigendum mode, I understand? Yes, Senator? [[I'm admitting to eight...]] Senator Libicki could have caused even greater family trouble. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u118	That's why I'm taking the floor. I'm admitting it to eight. I'm sure my memory doesn't confuse me. I don't have the ninth. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's important...]] It's a lot of things. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u119	Senator Stanisławek, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[He was very persuasive with the nine.]] [[Maybe you don't remember...]] [[Voices from the hall: ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad that in such a joyful atmosphere we talk about reductions... [[A joke.]] Yeah, joke and cheery. Thank you very much, Senator Libicki. I would like to look at the issue of senators' salary and Members from the perspective of the Social Senator. It's harder for me to take the kind of ruthless position that some of my colleagues are taking because... I want to tell you that after two and a half years in the Senate, I don't think there should be any social senators. This is a very difficult combination of work and work for society. And here I would agree to earlier statements on how high a parliamentarians' salary should be. Well, tall enough to make a well-earned... And a well-earned one is usually someone who takes a social position, who walks a path and can lean over laws that determine social development. And if I were to take a position on payback, I'd say it's supposed to be that there's no such thing as a Member or a Social Senator at all. This is meant to be enough to make it possible to take a vacation free of charge at work and serve the nation. I'm not gonna tell you how high it's gonna be. We could talk about that. Nevertheless, I believe that we will vote on a reduction in the salary of Members and Senators. And so that the money we're giving will serve the public, I propose an amendment to the transfer of that money to run offices. It is in the process of writing an amendment concerning the fact that it is money in some sense meant that it is intended mainly for free legal advice to society. If society accepts And it's actually a pretty high percentage of acceptance, so let's go further, let's lean on social needs, and let's put our money on legal advice in offices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, two, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to develop this idea, which we talked about here with Senator Oremski, that since it is the will of the people, the will of God... Although I listen to Mass, well, I wasn't at the Pope's, now it was Moravian... I have not heard that the church, or a follower of God, supports this idea. But maybe he forgot. Maybe Mr. Morawiecki brought some message here to lower our salaries. Anyway, I'd like to focus on this... I will return to this will of the people. I don't know if for example. The doctors, these young doctors, were the people's will to raise their salaries as much as they demanded. I'd like to focus on this idea to invest if it's not in our pocket anymore, at least in our brains. Well, that's what he's been talking about around here a little bit... In our brains, in order for us to be well served by a good lawyer we can't afford right now. 'Cause if we're gonna be about everybody's rights, it would be good for us to have support, legal assistant, well-armed offices. What Senator Oremski was talking about here, because it's his idea... Just like in Estonia, right? No, in Latvia. The point is that a chosen Member or Senator has been assigned to a language course in a country, and I won't mention which one, because I don't like this country very much. And other actions to enrich the head, for apologizing, the parliamentarian, so that he would be proud, and know how to walk. And that's how it's built, and it doesn't degrade the position of a parliamentarian, which is, as it's said, supremacy. The idea is therefore to invest not so much in the pocket of a parliamentarian, but in his future. His future pensioner. And here's the question... Senator Rotnicka isn't here. It's a mess, but I've been practicing it because of me. Urban was chasing. We are not workers, and indeed any solution can be regarded as right and at the same time as wrong. And there are different solutions in the world. We are certainly not employees, and for this reason we are not subject to even such rights as are in the Labour Code, because we are not paid, but paid. But Okay, here's the In the field of social security, we are the same citizens as others. I'll tell you more, we've got a little bit of a dwindling advantage from the insurance system. I'm especially looking here, but there's no... There are ladies, there are ladies. Well, let's ask: do the senator have maternity leave? And they pay the same premium. Do they have baby-sitting, baby-sitting benefits? They don't. So it can be assumed that in the case of just a few... I will say that in the case of as many as 7 privileges, which every employee in Poland today benefits, these rights of our esteemed ladies are reduced. Of course, they can do things differently, but I do not think that a woman on maternity leave, Mrs Senator, can perform duties as well as any other, i.e. Decently, yes, but not these... And now I'm going for this investment, not in the pocket, but in the future, which is the occupational pension scheme. The point is that a Member, a senator after many years, after all the hard work, I think, because let's add that this is a few... I will not say disappointment because we are not professionals, but we are subject to all competition laws. Have you ever heard of lawyers beating themselves up? Bats in the media, judges? And we are subjected every day to market laws, the cruelest laws of the market, investigations and others. For these reasons, indeed, the elite or political class should have respect, but also the care of the state, not so much so as to enrich their pockets as to meet the basic conditions necessary for the construction of the Polish state. I therefore urge an employee pension scheme which assumes that it is the employer who pays a contribution of up to 7%. Preferences. And it's common, in any institution it can be used, if it takes... The problem is, we're not in this bill. Not because they didn't like us, just because we were forgotten. So I call for this amendment to be adopted, whereby at least our old age will be the same as the others. Not better, not worse, the same. [[Well, that's a good thing to say. Good, very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u123	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I haven't been here since the beginning of the discussion, but I'm sure that's what we've been talking about. All I heard was that this bill was the result of a decision to respond to a specific situation caused by these unfortunately awarded awards to ministers and that it all looked crazy because who else was to answer and who else was to blame. But it's not, ladies and gentlemen, it's not. It's worse, and it's different. It's not the outcome of this decision, it's the opposite. This president's decision was possible and it's hit because it's the result. She's the result. It is so, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to raising doctors' salaries, the public does not mind when it comes to raising nurses' salaries, the opinion is in favour, etc. And in our case, he's against it, and he's definitely against it. Is public opinion wrong, only in our case is it wrong? No, he's not. He is not wrong, because the authority of the Sejm, the Senate, the real social authority is what it is. The test results are back. Luckily, we've managed to fall below all the competitions, all the competitions. [[Even the oldest.]] We're down. And you can use a populist tool when authority is so low. It is my opinion that this present law, this decision of the President, was possible at such a time of Polish parliamentarianism, 550 years after his birth, in which we have been and to which, it seems, we return, when Parliament is very weak, when the meaning and authority of the Sejm, Senate, Members, Senators from year to year, from term for term of office are smaller. I say this to you as senator of the fourth term. And it's not just because, like Senator Rulewski said, We are in the heat of a political struggle that once celebrated a few, today through the media reaches almost everyone, you see the kitchen, this political cuisine, which does not necessarily look beautiful. That's not the only reason. If you could compare Public participation rates when you compared indicators concerning the party or the number of parties in Poland and comparable countries in Europe, you would see the quality of our democracy. It is low, it is constantly lowered, also due to the political class, which gives the sumptuousness to keep the authority of Parliament and of us parliamentarians down. Evil is also in the shape of political parties, which, being chief, undemocratic, exerting itself in this direction, pushing in this direction... I'll tell you, you probably hear it too: less discussion, we're at war, we're in combat, discipline, etc., etc. This is life in political parties. Then it turns out that the parliament, which was supposed to be the place of an authentic debate, becomes a voting machine, becomes the political base of every next government, and in the reception of public opinion it can do very little, because one president can do very little, because he still makes mistakes. I refer to the role of the Senate But of course, no corrections, no corrections, no corrections... That's what the parliamentarians say. They're throwing a whip at each other. And we're doing it. We also need to hit our own breasts because we are contributing to the reduction of authority. And then, why pay such people so much? And for what? [[For not doing anything.]] Yeah, for not making money, for arguing and all that. You know these opinions, you know them well. They're the result. Let's not confuse the consequences with the causes. That's why I think we should at this point get, like in the Senate, to reflect on where it's going to lead. Well, I think that spoiling the state, the parliamentarians, which are not about wages, not just the style of debate, but, for example. The limitations in the Sejm of the right to speak, to limit the possibilities and rights of the opposition, to abolish with us, in the Senate, the secrecy, some residual freedom, some remnants of the right to express themselves, all of which bring such results together. We reduce wages according to the public's wishes. And now: what will the consequences be? I'm asking because we're making law mainly for the future, to a small extent for ourselves, because it's only been a year and a half. Question: how many of us will want to come back after this decision? You cannot be guided by desire, which is a plague of Polish politics. There are historians here who know that. Parliament was even able to keep quiet about the fact of stripping. And that was a parliament, too. And don't let anybody talk about pressure, 'cause there's a personal responsibility here. You must not be guided by desire, because it is a plague of the Polish community, of Polish parliamentarianism. We live in a real society where the role of money and prosperity is growing. It would be a mistake to think that we will have more for less, that there will be saints, selfless and beautiful people in politics. I told you here. Senator Wach just walked in, that I remember very well that when I came to Parliament, almost 1/3 people were with professorship titles. And they were excellent people in their fields. Today these people are much less. Some come and combine their work with other duties. I agree with Professor Stanisławek here: this is not entirely possible. Either you're good here, or you're good there, or you're not good anywhere. That's why I consider today's decision, as one in the course, inexorable and perhaps not the last... Today, at this sitting, we will be discussing the Senate Rules of Procedure. This will be a further part of the process of spoiling Polish democracy and lowering the rank of parliament and individual parliamentarians. Let me repeat: it is not that the public is completely wrong about this matter. More needs to be done to restore the authority of the Sejm, the Senate, the parliamentarians. Only then will it be possible to think slowly about fair wages. I think this is a sad moment, and it's not because they're gonna take something away from someone, but because it's one more element of a certain process that I've been trying to introduce to you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u125	Thank you very much. Senator Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As usual, Senator Bobko has made it easier for me to begin speaking. We all know where it all started. It started with the ministers' prizes. We hear that these were prizes, some of them said so. It's completely legal, but it's wrongly accepted by society. As a result, the tenant from Nowogrodzka decided that these prizes should be given back and that various wages should be cut. Senator Bobko just said we're dealing with two populisms here. On the one hand, there is the populism of the opposition, which has finally attacked this money for these people somehow justified, and on the other hand there is the populism of power, which has responded with populism to populism. Well, Mr. Senator, it's not like that, it's not like that. If the opposition points to errors, unrighteousness or even the violation of the law by authority, then symmetry cannot be applied, it cannot be said: yes, but they began. And were we dealing with a violation of the law here? I think so. I think so. Because what else is that the prize fund was included in the budget, and therefore, you can say, it was legally available... It should also be added that every prize fund in every institution, in every company, including the Prime Minister's law firm, must be provided with rules of procedure. In the rules of the fund's spending, the award of prizes. Well, I don't know such an institution, and I don't know the rules that say that the prize fund is given to everyone every month in a certain amount. There isn't. I would like to see the rules that Minister Beata Kempa had to draw up at that time, and she had to accept them. I think it all looked different. And why did it look different? Therefore, what was said here was that at the very beginning of the term of law and justice proposed increases. It has proposed increases for vice-ministers and ministers. And I want to say that if they were just for them, it's a word of honor and today, if it happens again, but only for them. I would have voted in favour. There was a problem, that MEPs were joined to the Vice-Ministers. That, of course, aroused resistance. They pulled out of it, and then at the Prime Minister's firm, I don't know who. The communal news says that Mrs. Beata Kempa, but someone had to accept it, probably the then prime minister came to this conclusion: aha, you can't with an open head, so we'll go sideways; here we have a prize fund, this prize fund is all we need. After all, ladies and gentlemen, these were monthly prizes of PLN 6,000. It was almost half the salary. What are these awards? So we have certainly been dealing here with circumvention of the law and the rules of procedure, and if there were no rules of procedure, in addition to the violation of the law. And the opposition had every right to point it out and talk about it out loud. Who should be punished? The one who invented this system and the one who accepted it should be punished. Meanwhile, others were punished. First of all, ministers who suddenly had to pay back that money. I would point out that they've been collecting this money all year and spending it. It wasn't like they got it in one pot of 70,000 and they had to give it back in a minute. Then there'd be a smaller problem. They received them all year round, spent their money, and at the end of the year they had to pay back 70,000. So, first of all, the ministers who didn't come up with it were punished. Secondly, Members and Senators are being punished. Finally, the punishment of local government officials is being prepared. Do you see the absurdity of all this? Now... After all, the president made this decision among his closest associates. Here it was said that a group of Members had gathered and made a decision. I have a really big sense of humor. You know me. But I'm not laughing here. What group of Members have gathered? First, it was the decision of the political committee, which met quickly and without any public discussion made this decision, and then a group of Members submitted a proposal. Is it possible to discuss the wages of parliamentarians? You can, and you have to, only you have to do it seriously. We need to show how it is in other countries, what proportions are there, etc. Is it fair that a Member or a Senator, who is the first term of office, has the same salary as a Member or a Senator who is already in his fifth term because he is still elected? These are things for discussion, this is all for discussion, only that there was no discussion here, just a political decision for the public, as the invaluable Marshal Terlecki said. And let's stick to that. Plus, there were completely cabaret scenes, but not in the Senate. I must say that here at least a few voices from the United Right are critical voices. We'll see how the vote goes. But what happened in the Seym was just laughter in the courtroom. After this decision, individual Members of the microphone began to express their praise for the fact that it was great that it should be so. Well, this reminds me, ladies and gentlemen, of the Green Goose Theatre of the unsatisfied Constant Ildefons Gałczyński. You're all mature people here, and you know what Green Goose Theatre was, so I don't have to explain. Short forms, absurd. In this case, if Gałczyński were alive today, he would probably write one such scene. It would look like this. The curtain rises, at the top of the megaphone, on the stage of the chorus of Members of Law and Justice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The megaphone says, Lower your salaries! The choir sings: We're happy! We rejoice! We've always thought about it... [[Applause]] ...but we never dared to say! And that's not enough! [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is humiliating. This is humiliating. I don't know how these people can look their voters in the eye and so on. I don't get it, but okay. I want to tell you, my friends and colleagues at the PiS, yes. Well, we're different, as you know, pretty much on different issues, but I don't think you're following any bad intentions. You're wrong, that's true, but the intentions probably most of you have are good, and the merits are certainly good. And now it is. For two years you have followed all orders from the top, you have carried them out, so to speak, without any comments, without special reflection, etc., without corrections, without thinking. The bill came in yesterday. We're sending it today. Also stupid, harmful ideas, such as. The IPN Act, when it was already known that the damage would be enormous... Nothing, no reflection. You did all this because you trusted the president that he was brilliant. And what did the president do to you for that? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] He's reduced your salary. [[Applause]] And at the same time, we all found out. ..and the country too.. How much do your colleagues earn when they're not parliamentarians? I'm not talking about President Obajtko, who is, well, a real genius, but I'm talking about councillors. By the way, it turns out that your councillors, whose salary no one here is going to lower, absolutely, after 20,000... 20,000 is the minimum wage, minimum wage. In various companies they settled down and, as PSL colleagues described, they hugged this money. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's just humiliating, it's humiliating. There's some sort of enslavement to the minds, really. I understand that in the Seym, among the Members... They're all scared out there because, like the president said... What did the president say? That you won't be on the letters... [[Mr. Marshal, time...]] ...that you won't be on the letters, just let one of you try to vote differently. I'll tell you what. We had these situations when I was an MP when I was in the SLD and so on. There were different orders, too. When someone told me that, and I didn't think so, I said it was hard not to be on the list, and I voted differently. I saved myself somehow. So I don't know if anyone... [[As an independent man, you've saved yourself.]] Excuse me? [[As an independent man, you've saved yourself.]] [[Voice from the room: And luckily...]] For a while, I didn't have any consequences, but... [[He was a marshal.]] ...because if someone represents something... I'm sorry, I may be too proud, but I'm saying this to you, and there are a lot of people here who represent a lot of people. There are professors, doctors, doctors, rectors. Come on, guys. And they're telling you, completely against your... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. And they tell you: for we will not set you up. Here we have to say yes: but, Mr President, no one has consulted with us, and we have a different opinion. I'm done. President Kaczynski simply decided to humiliate you with a humiliation to show you that you mean nothing. There's his command, and they're all supposed to do it. If you guys want to give in to this humiliation, okay, but I'm definitely not gonna be part of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u127	Mr. Senator Bonkowski. Also for the second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the senator's last statement, who has returned to the subject of these awards again, that it is against the rules, that this, that and that, and that, and still simply warms up this topic, what a great abuse it was. Mr. Senator Borowski, for eight years when there was this total opposition in power, they didn't need any regulations, nothing. They got the salary they got, but they got the silent permission: make bonuses there on the side, and whoever gets it, on the downside, that's all he's got. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes? Report it to the D.A.!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's how it worked. And now maybe I'll refer to what Senator Libicki said. He says there are two options: you can follow Trump, that only those people who have something and so on... or just pay well. Well, I'd be closer to that version behind Trump, because people who have a stable situation and are wealthy have time, resources and can devote themselves completely to this kind of work, but I don't rule out the option that Mr Stanisławek spoke of here. If the senators were just to work here and they couldn't do anything else, then they should actually be well paid. Many times here, such words were said that they should make a lot of money, but no one says how much. And I'll tell you what he should be making. If you count this... For 25 years, as Senator Libicki has said, nothing has changed here, and salaries have been higher, because... if you count these schematics, it would seem that this money has lost value. And if this were to be compared to the salary of a parliamentarians 25 years ago, it would turn out that this salary, including the diet, should be within 25,000. I know that for normal people who have a normal prose of life, it's a lot of money, but, for God's sake, this is Parliament. The heart of Poland beats here. And here's the other thing. Here, the Senator rapporteur said that there was a social demand to lower senators' salaries. I drive all over Poland, I go to many places, and I have not met anywhere with such a demand to lower the salary of parliamentarians. [[Voice from the hall: That was the case in the explanatory memorandum.]] I've never heard of it. Senator Wach, I believe he said there's such a permission. You've confirmed that there's a permit; maybe you've heard such permission somewhere. 'Cause we just have a low social authority 'cause that and that, 'cause we're at the end of the list. And you said we owe each other. I don't feel guilty about myself. I would have been more interested in the parliamentarians of this total opposition. And the main fault of the fact that such are the quotations, that such an image in society functions, is borne by Polish-speaking media hostile to Poland They create this image of us and show Poles. It's driven by these media, and that's why we have what we have. Mr. Libicki also said that this is 12 million a year. Well, that's the profit from this operation, the wage reduction is 1 million zlotys a month. For a mere mortal, these are unimaginable amounts, but on a national scale, the second country in terms of size in Europe, 12 million... It's not like they're... No money is... I can say that I'm meeting with a social permit, wherever I move, that money needs to be looked elsewhere, you have to look for them in companies, because there's just money in companies. We have reduced them there, but I would urge our government, the government of good change, to reduce them, because I think on the board of directors... If someone in the company gets $25,000, then... well, on Polish terms, there's so much money. And no one will say that they will escape because they will not go to the West because there are specialists from Poland who do not need. They're on their own. Nobody's gonna take him either, 'cause he's gonna give him maybe 20 and 25 grand... So if someone on the company, on the boards, gets $20,000, that's enough money. Why give me a couple of tens of thousands? Because the manager gets $20,000, the director gets $40,000... There's millions to be recovered. And that's what I'm gonna call for a good change. I'm gonna appeal for you to just clean up your paycheck there. Because everyone in Poland would want to earn 20.25 thousand. That would be enough money. Not to make $90,000 or $100,000 or more or $60,000, for example. Someone's gonna hire a company to be the head of the department, and they're gonna take 60 or 40 grand, or some sort of specialist... I don't have anything against specialists, but there's a specialist who gets $18,000, and a parliamentarian gets $6,000. [[Mr. Senator...]] And that's what's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me, although I may be mistaken, that I have not yet spoken of money in this House, because I find it rather private and very awkward to talk about wages. But today, the situation forces us to share some thoughts about it, so I will too. Well, I listened carefully to what the Senator rapporteur was talking about. Senator Elephant, as usual, tries to tell as much as possible and tries to give a good account of the committee's proceedings, and also shares his own thoughts. But I understand that you weren't very able to answer the question why, and you didn't really want to answer the question why, because at the committee meeting you didn't talk about the reason for the bill. Again, in order to understand this cause, one must reach into the chronology of events, and this chronology we all know very well. First, there was an issue about additional salaries in the government. I purposely say extra wages in the government, because what was rewards, what was granted from the prize fund, was additional rewards in the government. None of the ministers in the previous two term of office, none of the prime ministers would have thought of downloading any granted In the case of the Prime Minister by himself, and in the case of the ministers by the Prime Minister . additional remuneration, regardless of the form in which it is paid They would have happened. Well, it just wouldn't have occurred to anyone. I don't just find other words here. And then all of a sudden, it didn't just come to mind, it fell into my pocket, too. And it fell into the pocket regularly, even though, according to the legal opinion, state secretaries, Undersecretaries of State and other employees have the right to collect prizes, and ministers and prime ministers do not have such a right. I will quote a passage from this legal opinion, so that we can be clear about what the dilettators say, not about this, but about lawyers. The remuneration of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, ministers consists of basic salary and functional allowance, the remuneration of the Secretaries of State, as well as of the Undersecretaries of State. The decisions to award and pay cyclical prizes could have led to a system of additional salaries, within which the President of the Council of Ministers and the heads of ministries, in addition to the basic salary and functional allowance provided for by law, charged from the state budget an additional amount of more than PLN 5 000 each month. And now I am. In the light of the legal situation in Poland, two types of employment can be distinguished in the management positions of the state: employees and so-called. Systemic. The majority of those in charge of state positions, including the Secretaries and Undersecretaries of State, remain in employment and, therefore, ministers, too, when I was a minister, have the right to award special prizes to secretaries and undersecretaries of state. This is in line with applicable law and is in line with the Labour Code. But in the case of constitutional ministers and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, there is no employment, there is a constitutional, political employment, where, according to the prevailing view of doctrine, there is no status of employee, neither the Prime Minister nor the Deputy Prime Minister nor ministers are employees within the meaning of the Labour Code. It should therefore be stated that lawyers write that the collection by the President of the Council of Ministers and by its subordinate ministers of benefits, which are granted exclusively to employees, is tantamount to unjustified enrichment and should be considered as a breach of budgetary discipline from the budgetary law's point of view. That is why I maintain what I said, asking a question earlier, namely that it was a violation of the Polish law, not only the ethics of professional politicians, because once again I will say that no one should have thought about giving these awards or receiving these awards, but also the violation of the applicable law. And this is what I address first and foremost to Marshal Karczewski in response to his violent, emotional and unfair text towards himself. And why did all this happen? Then we'll have to follow up on the next stages. There is a speech by the Prime Minister in the Sejm, where she talks about the fact that the prizes were due, and this is said in a firm, unambiguous, non-disputing way, and the President at first accepts the Prime Minister. But then something like this happens... I can guess they've been read, thought-out public opinion polls, which show public opinion. The Prime Minister misunderstood this tirade and this support from President Kaczyński, so in Nowogrodzka it is decided that something has to be done about it. Originally, as you remember, these actions are intended to involve local workers and parliamentarians, i.e. parliamentarians and self-government workers, to be held responsible for what happened in the government. You could say the blacksmith stole it, but the gypsy was hanged. Let us be honest: this is part of what we see on a daily basis, that is, in the process of reducing and then putting out the role of parliament, Senator Augustine talked more about it. I will only talk about one element of this spoiling of Polish democracy, i.e. the extinction of parliament. Well, we've been seeing each other every three weeks lately, and the plans presented today at the Seniors' Convention today show that the senate holidays will be unexpectedly long, until 60 days, because in July there will be 2 meetings, and the next meeting will be held only in the last days of September. Moreover, this will be the only meeting in September and only 1 Senate meeting in October. So this is an element of the extinction of Parliament. The second element is everything that happened at the Senate committee meetings three weeks ago at the previous sitting. We all remember how experts, representatives of NGOs and even participants of some trips No, among others. the delegation from the CULs concerned They weren't allowed into the Senate building or the committee meeting. Well, such things have happened in the history of Polish parliamentarianism, at least in recent years, just haven't happened. On the basis of the order of the Marshal of the Sejm, our guests were not allowed to attend a Senate committee meeting. And finally, something that was the subject of my speech on behalf of the club, on behalf of a group of Senators of the Civic Platform, namely not letting Senator Stick to his place of work. Yes, I agree with the special conditions of protection in connection with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is not the NATO Summit and it cannot prevent the senator from exercising his seat as a senator. If we add the same constant changes to this, i.e. laws concerning the same matter, we will see that we are dealing not only with the reduction of the importance of parliament, but also with the extinction of Parliament for five hundred and fifty years of Polish parliamentarianism. I also understand what we are considering today, namely this law on reducing the salaries of Members and Senators. These are the last sentences, Mr. Marshal. Just so you're clear, I personally believe Maybe it's because I don't really count money. That Members and Senators earn decent money. We make good money in relation to our responsibility, but I also believe that ministers and vice-ministers should be increased in remuneration, because their responsibility is much greater than that of a single Member or a single Senator. That's my opinion, but it never occurred to me that this sentence was arbitraryly imposed on anyone. I believe that such views should be discussed. I'm addressing Senator Elephant. There was no public discussion about this. This discussion should only start and not end with tomorrow's vote on this issue. This should be the beginning of a public debate on the salaries of Members, Senators and Ministers and Vice-Ministers. And then all of this would make sense, and that's what Marshall Terlecki said, acting under the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to start by being a little rude to you from the Civic Platform. You are acting today as people who care for the welfare of the state, as defenders of this country, who care not to be spoiled. And glory would have been for you, if it hadn't been for those eight years, if it hadn't been for the Owl and Friends, if it hadn't been for all that you've formed, it's for today, because with that spoilage of the state, You didn't just fail... You were perfectly able to function as a ruling party and a spoiling state, and today, as an opposition, also as a spoiling party of the state. Such continuity is quite sad. Today, the state is acting as defenders of a good, efficient state that we are spoiling. Just so we're clear, I'm going to vote for this bill in the name of loyalty to the club, because I'm part of this law and justice contract, but I think that we really, in voting for it, are likely to contribute to ruining the state. But we have the right. That's what I'm saying, not you. Well, I'm really, really sorry, but you guys are the last ones to have the right to say it today. That was the naughty part. I'm terribly sorry to hear your sanctimoniousness today... Yeah, hands fall down. And as for this particular bill... In my opinion, we need to look at it as follows. Clearly, the beginning was that under the influence of today's opposition... You were able to reach by means of the media, Senator Bonkowski mentioned it here. To a large part of the public opinion, which is the public opinion, i.e. we as Poles, have qualities better and worse. You have reached out efficiently to these weaker, worse qualities of our society, to envy, to various kinds of envy. Congratulations! You've got it. With the result of these struggles with weaker and better Polish characters, we had to face ourselves as a ruling party. And in my perspective, this measure is that... We had to answer the basic question. We're part of it, we're part of it right here in the Senate... [[You can't listen to that.]] There's no need, Senator. Lucky for you. We're a free nation. You may not listen. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Especially you cannot be listened to...]] [[Calm down, please.]] Well, here too, in the Senate, we must answer the question of what the democratic system means. Of course, as part of the definition of this democratic system, it is important to listen to the public, whether we like it or not. I believe, Senator, that the story of the fact that the award was broken by the law... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It has to be proven, otherwise it remains a discourse. I feel that the ministers who have listened to you recently should perhaps be interested in evidence from your side that this law has indeed been broken. [[A legal opinion has been presented which...]] Please present this legal opinion to the public, then we will be able to discuss something real. Today, there is no such evidence that the law has been violated, but in the framework of the building of populist public opinion, there is no doubt that such statements have some effect. Now we need to think about whether this is the result. In the context of the democratic system that we have It is not that you should listen to the public. Yeah, I'm sorry. It's either stetha or stetha. That is the contract of the democratic system. For your sake it turned out that Polish society is, so to speak, contradictory internally, also our electorate. On the one hand, it once voted for us, for Law and Justice, because we said that we wanted the good of the state, we wanted a strong, healthy state, and on the other hand we wanted a strong, healthy state. And that's partly the same public opinion. He doesn't want state officials to be well rewarded. This contradiction in public opinion is one of many that we can see in a democratic system. The problem is that today we have been put in such a position that on the one hand we have to respond to the challenge of a democratic system, and on the other hand we have to patch this next hole, which you have started and which has become today. I hope we do it the right way, i.e. We will finish what the public demands of us today, and at the same time we will point out that this is a mistake. This is a mistake because the welfare of the state requires that particularly responsible officials... And here I agree with you, Mr. Senator, that higher officials of the Polish state should earn well. The salary is one measure of whether the institution has authority or not. We want to build a state that has authority. If we lower salaries, we clearly place public opinion on the same things that happened to some extent in the public sphere, i.e. some dichotomy, internal discord and internal disharmony. As you can see, in a sense, I'm here to make self-criticism, just like Senator Augustine, who spent the entire ten minutes of his time making self-criticism. I kind of put myself in this self-criticism. Yes, we are making a decision today, which we can say has its costs, and now we will have to come out of these costs. I'm very curious to see if you can help us. I'm very curious, but I don't think so. And I don't see it. That's what's gonna happen. We will have to come out of these costs because our idea is to make the state strong so that the state is democratic and that the public wants to understand and acknowledge that only a strong state is independent and serves society. This is a specific job that I see as being in front of us. Should it be said, like Marshal Terlecki, that what we do is made public? Of course, you shouldn't have said that. We're here in the Senate for this. At least all the time I hope so. To give the Polish people a signal that we can afford to use our senses first and foremost. The use of this reason is obviously related and must be in politics related to other important issues from which I started, e.g. such a question as loyalty within the political community that we are creating. It's obvious. However, this loyalty does not have to cause us to be expelled from what is meant to characterize us as the Senate, i.e. That we're a reflection chamber. Until then, we will be a reflection chamber to which we will give evidence that we are a reflection chamber. That is why I allow myself, although it may sound immodestly, to criticize what we are doing today at this point, but at the same time very strongly burden you with opposition to what you have led with anti-educational methods towards our common nation, which we are part of. I would very much encourage and ask you to get off this road because now we will have to rebuild the value of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u133	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk to my predecessor for a second. Mr. Senator asked for legal opinions. But we also asked about President Duda's legal opinions, and it turned out that they were secret. Do you remember that in the case of the Court we also asked for such opinions? And now we ask, for example. It's about who recommended the members of the KRS. No answer. We don't get that kind of answers. So please, Senator, don't ask questions to which you as formation I'm talking about your club here in general. Also, you often cannot answer, or you also have such a sin on your conscience. [[Let's not discuss this...]] But let me say this: I listened to this whole discussion today, and it was very interesting here and, I think, balanced and wise opinions, opinions on both sides. I've been listening to all this with interest. And I'm just wondering that what's important here is that people don't think we deserve that kind of pay. We should all think about this, and the opposition, and the rulers, especially since it is not only now, but it has been for years. We should think about it. And as senators, we can do a lot to improve the image, the image of the senator, the envoy in society, in general we can wonder how to do it. Surely what is happening at the moment in Polish parliamentarianism is not conducive to this correction and I agree that sometimes faults are on both sides. But in this case, I would like to refer to you... Who was to present this bill to us today? Who offered it to us at all? As some have suggested and as we all know On the orders of President Kaczyński? One of the authors of this bill is Mr Horal. Unfortunately, Mr Horała failed to come here today, although we had many questions for him. He wasn't here with us, he wasn't involved, and he wasn't explaining anything. And he put Senator Elephant in a very difficult situation, which I don't think he was convinced of what he unfortunately had to present at this meeting. And I checked where Mr Horała is today. [[In Gdansk.]] Because today is also the session of the Sejm, ladies and gentlemen. So where should Mr Horal be? He should be at the Sejm's meeting in the first place. I should also be here, here, and answer our questions, because it was he who submitted this parliamentary bill. And Mr Horała wrote on Twitter 3 hours ago: "Currently in the staff department of the City of Gdansk we are waiting for the list of Vice-Presidents' presence. It is very interesting that the Member is waiting for the attendance lists, checking the attendance list of President Gdansk and Vice-Presidents. Next: Mr Adamowicz does not keep a list of his presence at work. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't have to.]] And he goes on to say, "We're getting something, but there's no madness." etc., etc. These are the type of entries that Mr Horala has been written for a long time, which should be sitting in the Seym or here, in the Senate, and answering our questions. And what does Mr Horała do during this time? It checks the presence of self-governments, because there is also a need to justify a reduction in the salaries for self-governments. So it is best to send a bunch of people from all over the country to local governments, check the presence of local governments and show them: there you go, they don't work! And now let's think about what we're doing, if this isn't some kind of... Isn't that a travesty? Isn't it absolutely embarrassing that a Member who should be working in the Sejm right now or sitting with us here in the Senate and answering questions, driving around Poland and proving that the local government doesn't work because they don't have a guest list? That is exactly what I wanted to say, the most important conclusion that we should make from today's sitting: if we have Members like the applicant who gave us such a discrediting bill, people will think badly of Polish parliamentarianism, the Polish Sejm and the Polish Senate. Finally, I would also like to emphasise once again that I agree with Mr Klich, very seriously saying that we are dealing with a kind of extinction of parliamentarians. At least I take it as a way of humiliating us, showing some superiority, that a Member or a Senator can be treated in this way, and that's one person, because we know it was one person's idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I use the extra time to basically address the two issues that emerged in the discussion. I'll address Marshal Borowski. Mr. Marshal, I support my thesis. Unfortunately, I'm saying this without satisfaction It's about mutual populism. The populism of colleagues in the opposition is evident, even if it is possible to speak of any shortcomings. I think that's what she said, to my knowledge, the State Labour Inspection. I, too, have been running a large institution for some time, and I do not recall writing any elaborates or justifications by awarding awards to anyone. The rules are generally quite general and give the superiors quite a far-reaching free hand in the allocation of prizes. I'm sure a thorough audit of the authorities can prove flaws, but what else is a failure, and what else is a left-wing money, a jump on the money, and that's all. I'm not gonna quote that. What's the matter? What's the matter? What's the The scale is also important in all of this. Here we are talking about shortcomings, where we are faced with costs of possibly about PLN 2 million on the scale of the state budget. I don't want to go back to how much money today is being studied for the past eight years. Once again, I appeal: let us not go into this. I'll recall yesterday's situation. Yesterday, Senator Czarnobaj at the committee meeting was very elegantly able to apologize for the use of the words 'leaving money', which in relation to this situation are simply inadequate. And the other thing. I was very touched how experienced a politician, Senator Borowski, was leaning over our humiliations in Law and Justice here. I'd like to say, Mr. Marshal, that I absolutely speak for myself, and I don't know what it looks like for my friends and colleagues. I don't experience anything like that. You know better than I do, because you're... I'm a novice, and you're an experienced politician, so you know a lot better than I do, what loyalty is and what it is to subject your ego, your ideas, your thoughts to the issues of the team you work and work on. In politics, we have to act as a team. Convincing that things are going in the right direction in general, that it functions a little like a good change, is more satisfying, because compared to a possible one or another problem in a particular situation, when a person is not quite convinced that this solution is optimal or the best possible... Well, Mr. Marshal, it's not so bad, at least with my well-being. I have never been humiliated here in any way, but actually sometimes I have felt some discomfort or had a problem with such a feeling that, as if the potential of the Senate, the potential of many senators both on our part and on your part is sometimes not exploited. We do not use the sensible amendments that you make or which appear in our group. You could probably do a lot better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, Mr. Senator, this is obviously a matter of your well-being. I won't tell you anything, but this isn't the first time Senators are forced to make decisions they don't agree with. And you, personally, are... You have repeatedly stated on this floor that this law is not good, that this provision is non-constitutional, etc. Well, I understand the principle of loyalty, of course, that you're on the team, but at some point, you have to at least ask a few questions inside and tell them how long you'll be doing this. Because I don't have to cite historical examples that show that such blind trust in one leader is only because things are going well for now. By the way, some are going well and others are going bad. In fact, it has very bad consequences. But that's another topic. I would like to refer here to the speech by Senator Zarin, who raised a lot of points with which it is worth arguing with, but I do not have that much time, so I will refer only to one. Indeed, it is clear that you are concerned with the legality of these awards. Senator Bobko has already admitted that there have been some shortcomings. [[Maybe.]] That they are so small that there is nothing to talk about at all, because VAT etc. We don't say now... The country has already spoken a lot about VAT, among others. You have won this election, and you are now enjoying it. But here we are dealing with a particular case. And Senator Żaryn says to Senator Klich: 'And where are these...' You must prove it.' How can the senator prove that? I'm asking you how? Well, I'll tell you how. First of all, he can read the legal opinion in public, because it's public... Secondly, the government should be presenting documents that show that everything was okay. I say again, Senator, show the rules of procedure and argue with this opinion on ministers. Senator Bobko said that he himself directed and awarded prizes, the rules were quite general, etc. Mr. Senator, I absolutely don't believe you've given the same employee a monthly reward. If you show me these papers, I'll surrender. I'm sure nothing like that ever happened. So in this case... Of course, she could investigate the prosecution, but we don't have an independent prosecution. Well, Mr. Senator, at the head of the D.A.'s office... You know who it is. Yes. [[This is a guarantee of independence.]] No, no, that's an absolute guarantee. Yeah, yeah, that's absolutely... And I can already see the prosecutors under Mr. Ziobra's shining guidance show here a misdemeanor, a violation of laws, etc. Come on, let's not joke about it. When there was an independent D.A.'s office, you could count on it. Good. There's still the Supreme Board of Control. Ask the Supreme Board of Control to examine it urgently and comment. After all, it's in your best interest to prove that everything was okay. But no one seems to be bothering, just saying, "It was okay," that's it, period. It's not like that. Second thing. I would like to say that when it comes to the so-called. public opinion on salaries... Ladies and gentlemen, I have been interested in how it is in other countries, what proportions are, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I've read... There was a study done by the European survey organisation and there was, among others, there. a question about the wages of parliamentarians in the various countries of the European Union. There wasn't a single country in which citizens would say it should be. In every country, citizens think politicians make too much money. That's the specifics of this profession just. And it doesn't matter whether this parliament works great, like in Sweden or in the Netherlands or just like in Italy. Then let's not plead for it. And in any of these countries, it never occurred to anybody that if people think so, they have to lower their salaries. At the very least, you can try to make this parliament work better so that it deserves the money. And I would like to point out that our salaries haven't been raised in years. There was no mention of raises here, and everyone accepted it, because no one was arguing about it. So this whole vox populi, vox Dei just doesn't apply to this case. None at all, let's face it, because at the same time there was a disabled protest and a poll was made, which showed that 80% Poles think that 500 PLN should be paid for disabled people. Vox populi, but somehow not Dei this time. So let's not rely on vox populi, vox Dei, but let's have a fair dialogue on this, including with society and internal. And finally... Well, I can't... [[Mr. Marshal...]] That's the last sentence. I cannot spare myself the reference to Mr Horala, who was ranked here by Senator Zdrojewska. Why do you think Mr Horała left the Sejm and went to Gdansk's family? Why? It's to prepare a justification for a reduction in the wages of self-government. He went there, now he's asking where the list of the vice presidents, the president... This is ridiculous! And based on this attendance list, maybe someplace else, because a friend was, and so on... You will see that when we discuss the wages of local government officials, we will learn that research has just shown that they simply do not come to work at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine. [[Aleksander Grad himself took more money than all the awards from the Sejm.]] [[But not like this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm also polemic about Senator Zarin's statement. I listened to him outside the room, but I listened. [[With understanding? With understanding?]] I hope the senator was trying to understand what I was saying. I've been talking to him for a while. Because of the fact that, as I believe, each of us You, me, are partly responsible for the fact that the rank of parliament and parliamentarians is so low, it does not appear that I was self-defense here. And I want to tell you that I've been showing you some of the processes that we're in. Mr. Marshal's right. I saw him shaking his head when I was making my thesis. In this sense, he is right that these processes are, indeed, also largely world-wide reduction in the rank of politicians, politicians, caused by completely different processes. One could say: how can one talk about good democracy without the ability, ability, skills in the information world to find too much meaningful, good information about how it is, how to make a good decision. So this is a broader problem, of course, not just ours, ours. It's true. But I pointed out what was up to us, and I said that we were dealing with further spoiling the state, spoiling the party, and that, to a large extent, as a political class, we also earned a bad opinion among our constituents. Because, apart from the fact that the parties are preparing a program that seeks to gain power in order to be able to carry it out, they still have and should play an appropriate educational role, should shape public opinion, prepare people for public service, select people to perform their duties. I have to say, it doesn't look good and it doesn't look good for the future. That's why I dared to make such a point that the President's move is rather the result of what is possible for a populist when democracy is malfunctioning when there is no resistance from the Senators of the ruling party, who I think we will all remember this picture drawn by Senator Borowski. Rather, they are to be willing to listen rather than to counsel, to do rather than to create. Therefore, taking on this part of the responsibility that I should take, although I was, and I think I am, definitely critical, but I would like to stress that the more responsibility I have, the more power I have. Speaking of whom much responsibility falls today, the answer is simple. Take this to heart first. This decision will certainly not contribute to the fact that the Sejm, the Senate, the senators and the Members will be better. You know that, and yet you're ready to do it. That's the naked truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u141	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Stanisławek and Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: There is no representative.]] Oh, there isn't. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 813 and the report of the Commission In print No 813 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. The senator's in time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting, the Infrastructure Commission took note of the Act on Driving Vehicles. I would like to say to you that this law is a consequence of the judgment of the Supreme Court of September 2015. In its judgment, the Court of First Instance stated that the provisions of the Act on driving vehicles do not authorise the administrative authority to collect statements from the persons submitting the application for a driving licence and these are placed under criminal liability On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the Therefore, solutions have been proposed to impose an obligation under criminal liability to declare that such a person has not been ordered by a final judgment of the court to prohibit the driving of motor vehicles, that there is no retained driving licence or authorisation to drive a tram, that he is not entitled to drive vehicles. Following the presentation of these proposals, no one spoke in the discussion. All members of the committee were in favour of this proposal. And the same proposal for this submission is made by the committee to the High House. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Marek Chodkiewicz is with us. If you wish to speak, please. Aren't you taking the floor? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. So I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up for the discussion, no one volunteered at this point either. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has submitted his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 815 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 815 A and 815 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Law on the amendment of the Law. Education Law adopted by the Sejm on 10 May 2018. The committee meeting was held yesterday. The committee was attended by the applicant Dariusz Piatkowski, representatives of the Ministry of National Education and representatives of trade unions: ZNP, Solvency and Forum. The amendment of the Law of 14 December 2017. The purpose of education law is to clarify the rules governing the selection of the head of the school or the institution as regards the participation of trade union representatives in the competition committee. As a result of the changes made to the composition of the competition committee, representatives of representative trade union organisations within the meaning of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue, covering the scope of the school or institution in which the competition takes place, will enter into force. In addition, amendments have been made to the resolutions of the pedagogical board on matters relating to persons performing managerial functions at school or at the institution, or on matters relating to the opinion of candidates for such positions. A provision has been adopted that the resolutions of the pedagogical board to this extent will be taken by secret ballot. The legislator stated that the law does not raise any legislative objections. I made an amendment to the bill. The amendment was positively assessed by representatives of both the Ministry of National Education and trade unions, the two largest trade unions, i.e. the trade union of.Solidarity and ZNP. During the committee meeting, the amendment was also tabled by Senator Wach and was tabled as a minority request. Finally, the committee requests the adoption of a law amending the law. Education law with an amendment which I have tabled. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 1 in paragraph 1. Point 3 shall be replaced by the following: "one representative of the trade union organisations within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act, chosen from among the members of their organisational units or the organisational units of the trade union organisations which are members of the representative trade union organisations, which bring together teachers, covering the scope of the school or establishment in which the competition takes place.' One of the important changes resulting from this amendment is that at the moment it will be possible to be on the committee representative of the relationship with the school or institution concerned. So far it's been... It was impossible in the current record. We have removed the record that eliminates these teachers from a given school or institution. Dear Marshal, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask Senator Piotr Wacha, rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, to present a proposal from the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u146	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal concerns actually one amendment that I have tabled, an amendment concerning the paragraph. Article 14 63 of the Law on Education, which concerns the composition of the competition committee determining the competitions for the head of the school. First of all, I would like to say that this passage has not been amended. He's the same... This was not in the proposal for change, but it falls within the area of the mouth. 14, so it was actually subject to discussion and there is an opportunity to amend it. The amendment I propose is that... the pedagogical supervisor in the current amended law is represented by three representatives of this authority on the competition committee under the Education Act. My amendment is to reduce the number of representatives to 2, which is to get back to the state before a major revision of education law. As a result of the amendment I propose, three representatives would only have a school or institution. In addition, there would be two representatives of the pedagogical board, the parent council and the pedagogical supervisor. The aim of the amendment is to actually point out that the supervisory authority should neither be equal nor have supremacy on the competition committee which elects the Director. Of course, it is difficult here to talk about who has the majority and who has the advantage, because the composition of the committee is quite complex. Trade union representatives are still here. It must be said that the school management policy is conducted and is responsible for by the local government, and that the supervisory authority, the curator and curator, is supervising from the State's point of view and evaluates the school director. In such a competition committee, one representative of the supervisory authority would actually suffice. He would be present, he would express his opinion on the candidates and possibly warn the committee of candidates who, from the point of view of the supervisory authority, would not be appropriate or would have shortcomings that could have a bad impact on their work. But he shouldn't decide here. This amendment was actually not accepted by anyone, and in particular by the Deputy Minister present at the meeting. He said clearly that the current tendency and will of the government is to strengthen the position of curators. I won't argue with that. All I'm going to say is that the dominance of the government side with regard to self-government appears in many places. I don't agree with her. I don't think she should have happened. In this particular case, the Minister also said that the curator not only deals with supervision but is also the main assessor. In my opinion, this completely disqualifies this argument, because the selection stage of the director is not a stage of evaluation. I stress: this is not a stage of evaluation. Well, in that case, if there's a probation officer sitting over everything from start to finish, he should even appoint a director, that's all. Then the situation would be transparent and it would be known what was happening. It's actually from behind the coal, from the shadows... This isn't the stage. The evaluation takes place after the period of work, the evaluation is carried out as a result of activity, not at the selection stage, when the person responsible and managing the school should at least be considered to be the most important person in honor. Hence the proposal for a 3:2 ratio. This amendment was not accepted, the smallest minority voted for it. Nevertheless, I believe that the return to the legal situation which was in this regard before the major amendment is desirable should take place, and that this Supremation of the Government Party, representatives of the government, in this case the curator, at every stage of the work is inappropriate and is a mistake. The other elements of the amendment should be assessed positively, in particular the amendment, which was not mentioned here, concerning the confidentiality of the director's election itself in committee work. That should be a positive assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I already have an easier task, because the Marshal of the Senate has passed this law on the amendment of the Law of. Education law also to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, and colleagues have already discussed it extensively. I'd like to add a few more words right now. Well, in the first law that came out of the Sejm, there was a record that this representative could not be employed in the school or institution to which the competition relates. This is an amendment which was tabled at the committee meeting and which, of course, received a majority. Thus, compared with the Seym printing, such a change was introduced here with the Seym Act. And now, ladies and gentlemen, about the merits of the case, about these representatives, because it was mostly about taking part in a trade union contest, I'm going to say yes. Here's the correct solution, because we have so-called solutions. representative relationships, and let me remind you that when it comes to representative relationships in our country, these are the main headquarters that we know, that is the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, the Solidarity Union, or NSZZ, the Solidarity Union, that is, the National Trade Union Agreement, i.e. OPZZ, and this is the Forum Trade unions, that's FZZ. These are the representational compounds. There's been trouble interpreting, because we have other relationships, federated, federations. Therefore, there was a question which may, which are representative and which are not. This is clearly stated, explained, and there is no doubt about it at the moment. As for the resolution of the faculty council, the senator was just talking about it, it's a secret vote. I would also like to say what amendments were tabled at our committee meeting. It turns out that in general the same amendments were tabled. Senator Zientarski reported... It's all about art. Point 1 (1) 14. Senator Zientarski has tabled a similar amendment on these trade union representatives. It's been accepted. A second amendment was also tabled, which I tabled, concerning the pedagogical supervisor, those two representatives. I remember very well what it was like in the previous bill, which was probably changed about a year and a half ago. Before that, it was precisely that the supervisor had 2 representatives and 3 representatives had the authority that operated the facility. And that's changed. I don't know why, because it worked well before. Although I'm sure you know what's going on, because if there's an increase in the number of representatives in the elected body, then... We know what's going on. Well, the point is to possibly support, choose your candidate, which means that the parole board will have a greater impact on the choice. In my opinion, so far, there has been a balance, and this change has not... That's how I justified it at the committee meeting. That there was therefore no need for this change. And taking advantage of the fact that this particular article and this point is being changed This shall apply to paragraph 1. 14 points 1 and 2 are also an opportunity to make such an amendment. So these two amendments have been tabled. Both the first amendment and the second amendment were accepted. And the vote on the whole of the bill was, as far as the ratio of votes is concerned, all voted in favour. 6 members of the committee for, 0 against. So we voted those two amendments to the bill that came out of the Sejm. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. Now, please, senators, who can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs... Do any of you senators have any such questions? No one's checking in. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Mr Maciej Kopeć, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: No.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wind signed up for the discussion. I'm giving you the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Wach, presenting the report of the minority committee, has devoted a large part of his speech to the amendment on reducing the influence of the curator on the selection process of the school head. We discussed this at the committee meeting. And here we have to say that this is not a good amendment. And it is difficult not to comment on this justification, i.e. There is no doubt that... In my understanding, the word "assessment" refers to the evaluation of the candidate. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. His qualifications, his achievements. And, of course, this could be said of all the representatives of this committee. Why does he have three municipalities? One would be enough to tell us what his position is. All the rest of these rations would put themselves in front of each other and exchange them, and in good faith they would vote. It seems that this number of representatives of each institution or office is to show that there is going to be some balance of right here, because other conditions have a municipality. It's absolutely right and justified, so it's respectfully taken into account here. The other rations are the probation officer, the other rations are the trade unions. And you can even see that... this process of changing trade union records shows how important it is. Alongside organisational, methodological or programming matters, staff matters are extremely important in the school. That's why I think this record hasn't changed at the moment. Only two matters, namely the representation of trade unions in this committee and the secret vote at the meeting of the pedagogical council, are being changed. We have great traditions when it comes to being a probation officer. It must also be said that local government units are small, medium and large. However, as far as the scope of pedagogical knowledge is concerned, some professional, very specialised knowledge is required. And it seems that the curator, covering a large area with his actions, has such specialized services and competences, while the local government has many other areas. I would not like to argue with the senator's general statement that the government's influence on self-government matters is increasing. This probably should be assessed individually, because there are probably areas where this impact should be less, and there are areas where it should be greater. There is no doubt that it is balanced here, because there are 3 representatives, and there are also representatives of teachers and parents. So it seems to be well-calibrated. And I have to say that I am making these words here so as to acknowledge the truth of this record and the state so far. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u151	Thank you, Senator. Now you have the floor, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll be speaking here with a different opinion. Besides, the senator has already justified... I just want to remind you that before that, there were three and two representatives. And that was changed not so long ago. And in previous years, it was not, as I recall, the slightest problem when it comes to selecting a school principal. Ladies and gentlemen, who is the leading authority? The managing authority shall be the municipality. And there's an article in the law. 63 where it is stated that the post of head of a school or establishment is entrusted to a school or establishment. The authority that runs the school. And now about the relationship... Mr. Senator, I agree, I know parole officers, and I know what it looks like, and I know what it looks like in different voivodships. But I also know the municipalities, and I know how the municipalities... It's a lot of things. There are 226 municipalities in the Wielkopolskie Voivodship, and therefore there are also many leading bodies. And that's why the parole officer doesn't always have enough knowledge of what it all looks like in different municipalities. And you have to have a little confidence in local governments, because they're finally funding this infrastructure, they're taking care of it all, they're getting subsidies, and they're thinking about what's most important. On the quality of teaching. It's not like the probation officer's the only one who's interested. Every municipality, every authority that runs a school is interested in making the students at his school perform their best so that they have the best possible results. So, in my opinion, this change was quite unnecessary, and it would be worth considering whether we should return to what was before and what was not in doubt. And here's an attempt to tilt so the parole officer can have a bigger... I'm talking about what you said about that mouth. 14, which in fact was not changed in the Seym. Well, in the Seym, as we can see, this amendment that was tabled so that there could be representatives at school... It turned out, too, that it was not seen how probably the rapporteur of the Sejm said that they did not see... Or maybe that's what the minister said. I don't remember anymore. That it's such an oversight, etc. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that something that did not raise doubts was good. And it's not like you always have to have a decisive vote, you always have to have a majority. I know that you in most of the laws that we've made, mostly that's what it's always been about, the competition committees, to have more influence there, to have people there... Just in the case of some laws, those fundamental, important ones, where the government supports... Well, in this situation, we need to have a little confidence in local governments, believe that local governments know who the director is, know these school heads, know how to do things. And you have to have a little trust. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that it is worth going back to what was going on, i.e. that the curator should only have two representatives on the competition committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 817 and the report of the committee In print No 817 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. I would like to point out at the outset that the amendment of this law is intended to implement the law of the European Union. This law provides a legal framework enabling direct application in the national legal order, respectively: Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 on cableway installations, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 on personal protective equipment and Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the same year on appliances burning gaseous fuels. Following the replacement of directives by directly applicable European Union legislation, cableways intended for the carriage of persons, personal protective equipment and appliances burning gaseous fuels will be excluded from the regulation of the Conformity Assessment System Act and, in the field not regulated by Union law, will be covered by the provisions of the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems. The consequence of the amendment of the Act of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment systems for the market and the Law of 30 August 2002 on conformity assessment systems are amendments to the laws on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland, on commercial inspection, on measurement, on explosives intended for civil use, on rail transport, on State Labour Inspection and on maritime equipment. Four amendments were proposed at the committee meeting. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the law together with the 4 amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u155	At present, senators may submit a request to the rapporteur's senator for no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Marcin Ociepa, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: No.]] At present, senators may submit a request to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda for a maximum of one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I'm saying no one came forward for discussion. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I remind the senators that until item 6 of the agenda, this is a law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, we will proceed in the afternoon. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 819 and the report of the committee In print No 819 A. I ask the rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence on the Act amending the Act on the Signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The Commission dealt with this law on 5 June, which is yesterday, and recommends that the High House adopt this law without amendment. What's the bill about? The amendment introduces marks, symbols of the fifth type of Armed Forces, i.e. into the Act on the Signs of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. the territorial defence forces of the country. It introduces an eagle of territorial defence troops and a flag of territorial defence troops. The Eagle of the territorial defence troops is designed on the basis of the Eagle of the land troops. In the shield of amazons, i.e. this lower element, there is a sign of Poland Fighting. As far as the flag of the territorial defence troops is concerned, as with other types of armed forces, it is a red flag, but with an eagle of territorial defence forces in the middle. Senators Grubski, Rusiecki, Kilian, Dobrzyński and Czerwiński took the floor during the discussion, because this was the case at the committee meeting. Some doubts were formulated, especially by Senator Grubski, but, as I understand it, on behalf of the Senators of the Civic Platform, in connection with the placing in the shield of the amazons symbol of Poland Fighting. These doubts were tried to dispel Minister Skurkiewicz. He argued that this symbol, on the one hand, has of course historical value, but on the other hand, what is important, has such a high carrying capacity of patriotic values that it is ideally suited to be used in the Polish Army, and especially in this formation of this army, which, like... This symbol, let's remind, was first used by the formations of the National Army. And it is the Territorial Defence Army, like the National Army, that will fight in the territory of the country, in defence of their small homelands, in defence of their family sides. As far as formal issues are concerned, both the World Union of National Army Soldiers and the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising have agreed to use this symbol in the sign of the Eagle of territorial defence troops. Moreover, during the discussion there were also voices and questions related not only to symbolism, but generally to the Territorial Defence Forces, at what stage of formation they are at the moment. The answer was given by the military commander, General Wiesław Kukuła. Right now. I don't think these are classified messages, they can be given More than 10,000 soldiers are called to WOT. And maybe not even two interesting facts, but two very interesting facts. Namely, first, in WOT 10% they are women, while the average in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland is 5%. Secondly, which is very interesting and very important, 32% of the soldiers are soldiers with higher education. When we add 15% to that. students who will also have higher education in a few years, we see that this percentage of people with higher education is close to 50%. That would mean that the Territorial Defence Forces, at least in their current form, have the highest percentage of people in the world with higher education. This is good for the armies themselves, as well as for the soldiers who build them. As I said, the committee recommends to the High House, there were 4 votes in favour, 2 senators abstained from voting • adoption of the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have Mr. Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator Czerwiński has comprehensively presented the intentions of the bill itself and the proceedings of the Senate committee. I'm at your disposal if there are any questions. Thank you very much for the moment.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Grubski has signed up for the discussion. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u158	My dear Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's always hard for me to talk about military matters when I have Minister Skurkiewicz in front of me. I like the Minister very much. That was my supervisor on the committee. Minister, you're difficult for me, but I'm going to refer you to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as the Civic Platform, will abstain in the final vote on the Act, because we do not fully agree with the formula of granting the Polish Sign to the Fighting Territorial Defence Forces. I, of course, understand the intentions of the various relationships that are willing to use this sign to promote it. That's their assumption. But we are of the opinion today that the Territorial Defence Army, at least at this stage of creation, did not deserve that this special sign for Poland, special for the Polish fight for independence, was granted to them. We as the Civic Platform in general, and I as the Senator of the Civic Platform in particular, were opposed to creating the Territorial Defence Army. We believe that 16 days of training is not really enough to create a proper army. What was pushed by the parliament by Minister Macierewicz makes us think so. We're actually dealing with quasi-military, not individuals that should be a kind of Armed Forces. I have pointed out what caused some controversy during the committee meeting, that in our opinion our colleagues from Law and Justice, and especially Minister Macierewicz, in their decisions, turned the Polish army upside down in their actions. I have this remark: perhaps the situation concerning the operation and formation of the Territorial Defence Army after the next elections, if the power changes, will be discussed. I would like to draw your attention to the information that you quoted from Senator Czerwinski. I'm talking about the size parameters, which is 10,000. I don't quite agree with what General Kukuła said, but these are good parameters. By 2021, there will be 53,000. We, in my opinion, are today on a mountain of interest in the Territorial Defence Forces. These structures are formed mainly on the eastern wall. The western wall will certainly resist numbers. I don't think... I think this is a situation similar to that of the National Reserve Forces. That's where we stopped at 10,000 at a full cast of $20,000. This is where we're staying at 10,000 for now, with an assumption of 53,000. I don't think there'll be much more here. I estimate it to be about 20,000. This will actually be a project that will not be fully implemented. There's one thing that bothers me: the number goes away. Please note that General Wiesław Kukuła indicated that there are about 10% Go away for all sorts of reasons. The departures are related to the fact that the army evaluates the parameters of those who aspire to territorial protection as inappropriate. The timing... That's where you have to be on certain dates. And people give up on themselves. 10% It's a lot. We're not dealing with retirement here. This passage is not here; these people are not retiring. And the rotation is very high. We're not saying no. Today, we abstain from voting, we look at the case, and we'll see what happens next. I'm sure we'll be looking into this after the next election. Thank you very much. [[Thank you...]] Minister, thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u159	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Oh, excuse me. You're still Senator Rusiecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is impossible not to comment on what Senator Grubski said, and not to show another context of the debate, the discussion around the bill, the purpose of which is to amend the Law on the Signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in relation to the emerging Territorial Defence Forces as a new type of Armed Forces. I have an opinion. And I gave that sentence at the committee meeting not only as its chairman That at a time when this new kind of force arises, one must rely on values that show the strength, value and valor of the Polish Armed Forces. The sign of the Warring Poland, which is a symbol of the valor of a soldier, the commander of the Home Army, is a model that will certainly serve to build on a permanent foundation, on a strong foundation, the idea, bravery and strength of the Territorial Defence Forces, which are created before our eyes. From the knowledge I have, it appears that the scale of this grasping of young people, but also professional soldiers, to the Territorial Defence Army is large. This means that in environments that want to serve as soldiers of the Republic of Poland, the spirit does not cease. There are many environments, individual individuals in particular, who want to join the Territorial Defence Army as volunteers. It is also about professional soldiers who create this staff base, training, instructional for volunteer soldiers. In the global world, when we assess the strength and power of the armed forces... Such formation as the Army of Territorial Defence in the Polish army is a necessary formation. The decision and actions of the Government of Law and Justice, including Minister Antoni Macierewicz, continued by the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak and the entire command, are right. The aim is to strengthen co-existence, cooperation between the operational forces and the territorial defence forces, but also to remember that the territorial defence forces have their tasks, their objectives, the implementation of which is related to cooperation with local communities during disasters, during crises that we know from experience are taking place. It is necessary that such values, which in our history, are inscribed in our identity, are derived from the power and operation of the National Army and the sign of the Warring Poland, also be part of the emerging Territorial Defence Forces. The current experience also tells us that these brigades, which are formed in the country and which are formed, want to draw from identity, from history, from the bravery of soldiers of the Home Army or soldiers of the second independence formation, the second underground of independence, which was created in Poland after 1944 against the Soviet invader. And I think that what is needed by the army is what is needed for the Territorial Defence Forces, and I will say more: what is needed by the entire Polish and Polish community is to appeal to the strength and sources of the bravery of the Polish weapon, in which the bravery of soldiers of the Home Army using the sign of the Polish Fighting Poland, and to draw from this bravery. It's necessary. I would like to thank Senator Jerzy Czerwinski for his report on the work of the committee, and I would also like to ask the High House to accept this project and put it into effect after the vote in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u161	Senator Czerwinski will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will only say a few sentences in addition, not as the representative, the draftsman of the committee, but, let's call it, from each other. Well, I'd like to reassure Senator Grubski about these departures, because let's remember that it's not 10%. , only 8.7% And that's what matters. In addition, those who leave the service at WOT will retain the skills they have acquired. And that's an important issue. It's going to be another few thousand people who can use weapons, with basic tactical skills acquired, shooting, etc. In addition, 20% They're gone because of bad health, and we can't avoid that, 40%. while Because of the lack of availability. Only 40% is due to, let's call it, disappointment of service, i.e. because of the unhappiness of ideas about this service with the actual requirements and the actual realities of this service. So I wouldn't go overboard with that 10% number. That's one thing. And going back to the sign of the Polish Fighting... He appeared in our history in March 1942, after the competition was organized, and then he was immediately painted primarily on the buildings of Warsaw, on fences, on parks. But in February 1943, less than a year later, he was formally ordered by the commander of the AK gene. Rowecki, recognized as a sign of the underground army of the Polish AK, means as a sign of this component of the Polish Armed Forces, which fought in the country, on its territory Just like they're supposed to fight the Territorial Defense Army. And maybe that'll convince you to vote another way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u163	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on collective management of copyrights and related rights. The text of the Act is contained in print No 823, and the committee report In print No 823 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act on collective management of copyright and related rights adopted by the Sejm on 10 May 2018. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 11 May. Following its meeting on 5 June 2018, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Now, a few words about this bill. The aim of the Act is to implement the European Parliament Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences on rights in musical works into the Polish legal order. Of course, there was a very serious discussion on this subject. We had a problem with the fact that this directive had to be implemented as soon as possible due to some delays and possible penalties that would threaten the Republic of Poland. This has been done through a parliamentary debate and a public hearing with representatives of all actors, i.e. creators, users and OZZ, collective management organisations. During the committee meeting, I proposed nearly 40 amendments, which were the result of an analysis of the Senate Legislative Office. These amendments were, in principle, corrective amendments, except for the 1st amendment, which is by me, which concerned a reduction in the number of delegates: in Article. In paragraph 18, paragraph 18 is replaced by the following: 3 in point 1, the word "100' is replaced by "50' and in paragraph 2, the word "200' is replaced by "100'. It is about the number of delegates who would represent an association or organisation at a general assembly. The reason for this amendment was that there are organisations that do not have enough members to ensure that they can meet at the general meeting. I think it's important. It was a request of 2 organizations, i.e. the Association of Polish Filmmakers and the Association of Polish Stage Artists. That's all I have to say about it. I ask you to pass the attached bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u165	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I am addressing you as managing a cultural institution, a theatre for many years. I have a question for you. Are you satisfied with this bill? Does he have any flaws? Could it be better? The point is that you, as the creator, and the manager, should see if this bill meets the goals that were set before it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u167	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for these questions. I'd like to mention, Mr. Marshal... [[Please.]] ...that the 4 amendments were amendments by Senator Ryszka, for which I thank you, because these are valid amendments. Here's what I'm gonna say. This bill doesn't really deal with the problems that the theater is actually dealing with. She, of course, concerns two cases. One is a matter of copyright, writers, directors, stage designers. She's organizing the situation in the copyright care market. During the debate, as the senator remembers, we talked most about these pay tables. The point was that this law regulates it in such a way that the rates will be designated as final and only. So far it has been possible to use the so-called. the minimum rate, which led to some smaller organisations, entities or theatres being overlooked or likely to be harmed. At the moment, the law regulates these issues when it comes to the EU directive. We promised, Mr. Marshal, and actually the whole committee was in agreement with this, including the Minister, who expressed his approval on this matter. Mr Lewandowski and I promised each other that next year I would ask as chairman of the committee to meet to see how the law helps to improve this situation when it comes to copyright which has not been ordered so far, and now it has become so... Not all associations and collective management organisations are fully satisfied, but I think, and even I am convinced, that the law has been prepared very carefully by the Ministry. Of course, all these amendments, which entered into the law during the examination, were order amendments. So that I, on behalf of the creators, can say, Mr. Senator, that this bill satisfies our claims in, let's say, 80% And he's going in the right direction. Please note that I cannot speak only on behalf of the creators' environment, but I must also speak on behalf of the users and the organizations themselves. I can remind you that the bill says a lot about what a collective management organisation is supposed to look like, what is its legal status, etc. This law, as a result of this concern so far I don't want to call it a mess. He's tidying up, and that's why I think we should be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u168	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Lewandowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honestly, I am very pleased and glad that with such approval and the Sejm, and the Sejm commission, this law was met, prepared for a long time by our ministry, and that it did not raise so much controversy. And we were afraid that it could raise them, because it is a difficult bill, very strongly entering into the system of associations, which are collective management organizations. I would like to thank the senators for their contribution, for their amendments and for their understanding of the Ministry's arguments during the discussions with the representatives of the collecting societies. Because the senator, the chairman of the committee, presented the report and explained exactly what the law was all about, I have nothing but to recommend it and ask the Senate to adopt this government law implementing the directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u170	Senators can now report... [[A little correction.]] ...from a place of no more than a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask... [[I'm gonna...]] Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u171	Minister, thank you very much, but at the beginning of your speech you spoke about the Parliamentary Committee, so... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Senacka.]] ...I'll make it right that it was the Senate committee. But it's a little something, of course. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Of course, the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u172	No one else comes forward with any questions. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka signed up for the discussion. There you go, Mr. Senator. I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u173	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government draft law on collective management of copyrights and related rights, in accordance with Article. 1, indicates a range of cases governed by the law, i.e. specific rules for the operation of collecting societies, as well as other rights managers or related rights, the granting of authorisations for such activities, the supervision of the exercise of such activities, and the activities of the Committee on Copyright. In the explanatory memorandum of the government project, we read that harmonisation is the subject of the implementation of this EU directive This word is very important here. The principles of the activities of these collecting societies for the management of copyright and related rights, i.e. primarily the rights to works, artistic performances, phonograms and videograms, and even to some extent the rights to publishing books and newspapers. The Senator rapporteur has already mentioned that a public hearing took place during which the authors made a lot of valuable comments and proposals, including those relating to them. for greater protection of the rights of Polish artists. The bill was then worked thoroughly by the Extraordinary Parliamentary Sub-Committee, with a great commitment from the government, at last Also the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media, and now we worked on this project in the Senate in the Committee on Culture and Media. And that is what we have in the plenary room. Although, as I mentioned, the law is adapted to European Union law, it specifically implements the Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences on rights to musical works, as a result of maybe not so long but tedious work of lawyers of the Ministry of Culture, the Sejm, the Senate, collecting societies we have received a new law, a comprehensive law ordering the Polish collective management market, which will make it - We hope so. More transparent both for copyright owners and related rights owners as well as for users. It is true that the deadline for implementing the EU Directive was two years ago. And it is also true that the European Commission has, for this reason, brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to punish Poland for failing to implement it. However, we are not here to blame each other for this delay. Let me put it this way: there's no bad thing that doesn't work out for the best. Because it seems to me that, in this term of office of the Sejm and the Senate, with the current government, we have worked out a better bill than we could do with the previous ruling team. Therefore, I am not afraid to say that the contested law is the first in the 100-year history of Polish copyright law such a fully comprehensive regulation of the activities of collecting societies. Of course, I do not mean at the moment to somehow disrupt the provisions of the 1994 Copyright and Related Rights Act. By nature, it was partial. E.g. it did not deal with important issues between the organisation and eligible users and therefore the lawyers of the collecting society had basically a decisive voice in a very large number of matters, not just financial ones. In short, these organizations were called legitimate associations, but self-government had to be found in them with a candle. However, what is most surprising is that, in the current collective management system, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, the person who supervises these organisations, the person who should protect native creativity and fight irregularities, had little to say. That's what had to be changed as well. Therefore, under the new law, the Minister will not only issue a permit for the activities of collective management, but will also restrict, for example. an excessive number of organisations operating on the market, defined the principles of their interaction with both authorised and users, and will also be able to carry out their tasks through the fact that they have received adequate resources to clarify and eliminate irregularities, i.e. to use reminders and, above all, punish fines imposed for irregularities. If penalties do not help, the Minister will be able to impose a sanction in the form of withdrawal of the collective management permit, a sanction which has also been granted him today, but in the present law it is better secured. It is worth noting that the current law against other provisions clearly increases the role of creators and performers vis-à-vis producers and other entities. The decision-making vote is to be taken by the creators and artists of the performers and not by entities whose contribution to the creation of works and related rights is of a financial nature. That's for example. producers and music publishers who acquire copyright or related rights from artists and performers. The aim is to ensure that collecting societies share their rights fairly and pay the funds they have earned. Another important provision concerns those entitled who have not entrusted the rights of any organisation. Their rights will only be represented by an organisation which has acquired the status of a representative organisation. In addition, it will apply so-called. rule 1 window, i.e. the user will be obliged to conclude only 1 contract with 1 organization. What is also important, the law protects more Polish management organizations from the domination of foreign organizations in this industry. Other provisions include the provision that the Act allows management organisations to carry out social, cultural or educational activities financed by revenues from copyright and related rights, but it must be agreed by those who have developed these measures. Therefore, the most important decisions in each of these organizations will be taken at the general meeting of members, not among a few from the board, as has been the case so far. Therefore, the statutory audit committees representing the eligible themselves, who will supervise the activities of management organisations, have a strong mandate. The Act governs the rules of membership of the organisation, the conclusion of collective management agreements, the deadlines for the distribution of the funds secured and their payment to the entitled. The end, for example. investing funds in some financial market instruments, which we have been dealing with so far. As you know, all of this has led to the collapse of some of these organizations. The bill regulates the rules... Maybe I'll stop there, just a few more sentences at the end, so I don't get too deep into this bill anymore. Is the bill perfect? Maybe I'll ask. Those dozens of those who participated, for example, in the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, have made many other demands or maybe doubts; the dozens of Senate amendments that the rapporteur spoke about also show that this law could be further improved and amended. There was a heated discussion about it. But let me put it this way: the most important thing is that neither of these collecting societies nor any of the entities that participated in the work on this project, first in the consultation and then in the deliberations of the Sejm, Senate committee, have submitted a motion to reject this law, nor have the same committees done so. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] As regards differences in specific solutions, time will show what will need to be changed. So while the law may not be fully perfect, I hope it will benefit both the creators' environments and the recipients' environments, the users of these rights. I hope that solutions in this law, e.g. The transition from court to administrative mode during dispute resolution, a significant increase in the minister's role in the regulation of copyright and related rights, will largely mitigate many conflicts between cultural artists and those entitled to the benefits they deserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you. I have a question for the Minister, if you don't mind...]] But the questions have already been answered, Senator, we're already in the middle of... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: Oh, I'm sorry.]] ...discussion and it's too late. Maybe it's just in the cockroaches. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Good. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that item nine of the agenda will be considered after the adjournment, and item ten, as announced earlier, will be considered tomorrow morning, after the session resumes at 10 a.m. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 826, and the report "Print No. 826 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, print No 826. On 15 May 2018, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure for its first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 6 June 2018 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution. Your Senate, the resolution of 12 April 2018 on amending the Law on the Supreme Court introduced a clear procedure for voting the Senate during the election of the Supreme Court jury. The draft amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure submitted shall adapt the rules of procedure to that amendment. The public choice of jury will be carried out by means of ballot cards signed with the name of the senator, so it will be a roll call vote. Included in the draft amendment to the article. 39 and Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers During the discussion on these changes, a proposal for an amendment was tabled, which consisted in deleting part of the sentence in the paragraph. Point 3 (3). There was a request from the Senate Marshal or at least 20 senators and in case of failure of electronic apparatus. The amendment consisted in deleting the words and in the event of failure of electronic apparatus. The Senators voted in favour of this amendment. They also voted in favour of the amendments tabled to the Rules of Procedure to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u176	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicant has authorized him to represent Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Dear Senators, there will be an adjournment at 6 p.m. in room 217 for a documentary film entitled "Soldau." A city on the border of death. After the break at 7:00 p.m., we will listen to the Ombudsman's information and then proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda, i.e. amendments to the Income Tax Act. Thank you. Dismissed until 7:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 14 to 19 minutes 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u177	I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senator Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, it is our honor to welcome Mr Georgios Moschos, former Ombudsman of the rights of the child in Greece. Welcome. [[Applause]] We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u178	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! Dear guests! Buddy of the Greek Ombudsman! In accordance with the provisions of the Article. The 12th Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act is my pleasure to present to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for the tenth time, for the last time, information about the activities of the ombudsman of children's rights, this time for 2017, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. I will start with a few statistical summaries relating to the activities of the Ombudsman in 2017. A total of 39,000 182 cases were brought to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman addressed 168 general speeches to ministers, bodies, institutions. In 363 cases, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in 2017 considered that there was a risk to the welfare of the child in ongoing legal proceedings, and therefore, by exercising his statutory powers, he applied for and participated in judicial proceedings on the rights of the prosecutor. In accordance with the Ombudsperson's Act. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the follow-up of signals of irregularities as well as on its own initiative. In 2017, the Ombudsman examined a total of 291 cases on the spot. The checks were carried out, inter alia. in foster care facilities, youth educational centres, schools, intervention centres and rest facilities for children and young people. The Ombudsman has participated repeatedly in meetings of the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland, as well as in meetings of committees, among others. health, education, science and youth, family, senior and social policy, public finance, social policy and family, justice and human rights, and other committees and parliamentary subcommittees. The Ombudsman also took an active part in meetings of parliamentary teams. In 2017, the Ombudsman issued opinions on 74 different draft normative acts. As part of the dissemination of the rights of the child last year, the Ombudsman hosted children and young people in his office or met with them in various cities of Poland, among others. in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, rest facilities and nursing facilities. In total, more than 52 thousand children and young people took part in meetings with the Ombudsman, and each participant received a set of materials to promote the rights of the child and to inform about the child's call of trust, which has been operating since 2008 at the Office of the Ombudsman. The honorary patronage of the Ombudsman was covered by 299 events and initiatives organised, among others. by non-governmental organisations, scientific institutions and public and local authorities. The information presented to the High House in accordance with the provisions of the Act covers 5 main areas of action for the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens of the Republic of Poland. These include the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. A detailed description of the actions taken of a general nature and in individual cases is contained in the information and I will therefore limit myself to a statistical summary here. Four thousand and 271 cases were related to the right to life and health. As in earlier years, the greatest number of cases involved the right of a child to be brought up in the family In this category, the Ombudsman received 12 thousand 324 applications. 2,000 435 cases referred to the right of a child to decent social conditions. 5,000 978 cases were related to the implementation of the child's right to study. Another group of cases were those classified as being related to the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralization, negligence and other mistreatment. In total, 3 000 206 cases were reported in this category. For the second time, a chapter on the protection of the rights of the child in an international context has been set out in the information on the activities of the Ombudsman. I have decided to specify this issue because of the specificities and complexity of these issues. Applications for intervention and ex officio action mainly concerned the protection of the rights of minors of foreigners in the Republic of Poland, the protection of the rights of minors of Polish citizens residing abroad and international parental abductions. On the international scene, the Ombudsman also took action to protect the rights of the child in cooperation with the European Network of Ombudsmen for Children's Rights, ENOC, and through cooperation with representatives of European and international institutions. In the framework of the actions taken for children, the Ombudsman worked closely, inter alia. with the President of the Republic of Poland, of course Parliament The Supreme Chamber of Control, the General Data Protection Officer, the Patient Rights Advocate and the Police Headquarters. Cooperation with the various national authorities, representatives of local authorities, NGOs and representatives of the world of science was also carried out within the framework of the children's rights spokesperson's problem teams: a team on the development of standards of school and peer mediation; a team on the development of standards for the work of probation centres; a team on the development of standards of psychological diagnosis in education for psychologists working in psychological and pedagogical guidance centres and schools. All these teams have finished their work. The effect of their actions has been communicated to individual departments asking for implementation. For years, the Ombudsman has also participated as an institution invited to the work of the Interministerial Group for Combating and Preventing Trade in Human Beings. An important element of the activity of the Ombudsman of children's rights was the continuation of nationwide social campaigns. A campaign to respond to violence against children has continued since 2013. You have the right. The campaigns for young people were also continued.Courage saves lives and for parents.I am mom and dad. In 2017, in view of the need to safeguard the right of the child to protect against violence, particularly his peers, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child prepared a campaign called "Stop of School Aggression," which aims to shape the attitudes of children and young people by encouraging young witnesses to act aggressively to respond and resist violence. The most important part of the information is the attention to the state of compliance with the rights of the child. In assessing the respect of the rights of the child in Poland, attention should be paid to the Ombudsman's demands in 2017 to improve the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens. A more complete implementation of the child's right to protection against violence will undoubtedly be served by the revised provisions of the Law of 6 June 1997 The Ombudsman proposed to the President of the Republic of Poland to increase the level of criminal protection of minors, who, in agreement with the proposal, presented the draft amendment to the Sejm. The amending act entered into force on 13 July 2017. It strengthens the responsibility of the perpetrators of crime against life and health, freedom, family and care and introduces qualified types of crime on account of the victim (a) minor (b) minor (b) minor Or the unsub's modus operandi: acting with special cruelty. An extremely important issue is the introduction of a legal obligation to notify a criminal criminal authority of the preparation or attempted or commissioning of crimes against life and health, freedom and against sexual liberty and the morality of the child at risk of criminal sanctions of up to 3 years of imprisonment. At the time of adoption of these laws, the campaign responds to violence against children. You have the right to have been changed to a campaign to respond to violence against children. You have a duty. Further appeals by the Ombudsman to seal the child's system against sexual abuse have also been made. Since October 2017, there has been a law on the prevention of sexual crime threats, which has introduced specific measures to protect citizens. An important element of the change is the obligation on employers and other organisers to obtain information from the register about persons with whom the employment relationship is to be established or before they are admitted to other activities related to direct and permanent contact with children. Another element of sealing the child protection system against sexual crime was the execution of the Ombudsman's request to impose an obligation on the court to prohibit any or certain positions, to perform any or certain occupations or activities related to the upbringing, education, treatment or care of minors for a limited period of time or for life in the event of conviction for a criminal offence against sexual liberty or vice to the detriment of the minor. Previously, the provision governing this issue was only optional. The Ombudsman has been seeking for years to bring back a cassation complaint in caring cases based on the provisions of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad, requesting the President of the Republic of Poland and the Minister of Justice to undertake legislative work on the revision of the article. 5191 §2 of the Civil Procedure Code. The requests for amendment also concerned the feasibility of judgments based on the Convention, i.e. Not until they're legitimized. In an attempt to amend, the Ombudsman argued that the introduction of the Judit Review of the Supreme Court in relation to the judgments given under the Hague Convention would enable the elimination of defective judgments from legal circulation and the harmonisation of judicial practice. Only after the final termination of the proceedings will it be possible to protect minors from adverse experiences related to the compulsory withdrawal procedure initiated where the proceedings have not been definitively terminated. In response to these requests, the Ministry of Justice has undertaken legislative work. The Ombudsman took an active part in the legislative process by proposing amendments. One of the comments considered concerned a deadline for filing a cassation complaint, inter alia. by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child who is the time limit I thank the High House because it happened here. Finally, it was extended from 2 to 4 months from the date of the final judgment. As a result, on 26 January this year, the Polish Sejm passed a law introducing the provisions which the Ombudsman had requested. High Izbo, an extremely important issue which, as a result of the actions of the Ombudsman, has been regulated according to the well-being of young patients, was to leave the pediatrician in the primary healthcare system, not, as the Minister of Health proposed, to take over the treatment of children. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, By a doctor of family medicine. The projector also predicted that the pediatrician would only take care of the child until he was seven years old. The Ombudsman disagreed with such arrangements and took multi-faceted intervention measures which led to a change in the position of the Ministry and the introduction of measures to protect the health and life of children. A more comprehensive protection of the child's right to health will be served by adopted legal arrangements for the estimation of dental procedures for children. The Ombudsman has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Minister of Health to the need for a comprehensive state policy aimed at improving oral health in children, including effective prevention and the availability of dental services. As a result of the Ombudsman's actions in 2017, positive but still insufficient changes were made in this respect. The regulation of the Minister of Health of 8 December 2017 amending the regulation on dental treatment guaranteed benefits extends the list of dental benefits to those which have received a favourable opinion from the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. By order of the President of the National Health Fund of 24 March 2017 on the establishment of conditions for the conclusion and implementation of health care contracts such as dental treatment, the adjustment rate for the point valuation of dental procedures was increased. It is 1.3 compared to 1.2 from 2016. The Ombudsman has also repeatedly asked the Minister for Health to take action on too low a valuation of children's health benefits. As a result of these calls, pediatrics have been included in the tariff plan of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification for 2017 and since 1 October 2017 new tariffs have been in force in all paediatric groups, with an average of 4% higher. In the case of fast and comprehensive diagnosis or treatment benefits during short hospitalisation in conservative groups, a point value of 50% was introduced. 30% so far and 92% for treatment groups So far it's been 90%. In view of the introduction of new tariffs for paediatrics in 2018, The National Health Fund will fund all paediatric groups by about 43 million PLN more. An important request from the Ombudsman for the treatment of children with Crohn's disease and non-specific enteritis was to provide patients with new medicines for both induction therapy and maintenance treatment, as well as to reduce hospitalisation of the child from 3 days to 1 day for testing prior to administration every 3 months. In addition, the health department introduced specific criteria for the re-inclusion of the paediatric population in drug programmes. The Ombudsman's long-standing request for a legal ban on the use of solarium by minors has also been implemented. By the Act of 15 September 2017 on the protection of health against the consequences of solarium use, a proposed ban was introduced. In view of the growing problem of overweight and obesity among children and young people, the Ombudsman called on the Minister of Health to introduce nutrition and diet advice into the basket of guaranteed benefits. As a result, the Minister of Health instructed the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification to prepare recommendations for the qualification of dietary advice for pregnant women and parents of children from six months of age until the fifth year of age as a guaranteed provision of primary health care and outpatient specialist care. The Ombudsman also supported parents of diabetic children in their efforts to refund the CGM system monitoring glycaemic levels. As a result of the measures taken, the Minister for Health signed a regulation amending the regulation on the list of requested medical devices, which introduces a system of continuous monitoring of glycaemic control for patients up to the age of twenty-six years, with type 1 diabetes treated with an insulin pump, unaware of the symptoms of hypoglycaemia. The Ombudsman has repeatedly intervened with the Minister of Health on children with rare and ultra rare diseases. The consistent effects have led to the provision of the youngest patients with ultra-rare disease, an atypical hemolytic-uriac syndrome, access to Soliris, which will significantly improve the comfort of their lives. This will allow the use of medicines by specialists and in facilities prepared for this. As regards the protection of the right of the child to decent social conditions, the Ombudsman took a number of measures to address the problem of child non-alination. In this respect, the Ombudsman worked closely with the Ombudsman. We set up an expert team together. As a result of the multi-annual appeals, legal criminal measures have been adopted to motivate the maintenance debtor to comply with the maintenance obligation of the child. Unfortunately, the situation of children who do not receive alimony is still worrying, very worrying, and the actions taken so far are insufficient. Therefore, both the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman will continue to take further steps to fully implement the rights of the child in this area. The actions taken by the Ombudsman have led to improved protection of the rights of the youngest citizens as regards their right to study. The Ombudsman strongly sought to maintain the possibility of children teaching at school premises, which for health reasons cannot participate in the full course of education in the class unit. The Minister of National Education's proposals sought to abandon the possibility of organising an individual obligation to prepare preschools and individual teachings in kindergarten or school. Finally, the legal arrangements adopted took into account the Ombudsman's requests. The decision was left to psychologists from the pedagogical clinic. Another demand was to allow pupils with different types of disabilities to be extended in public schools and artistic institutions. Legal solutions did not provide for this possibility. The Minister granted the Ombudsman the right and started the legislative process with regard to the adoption of a regulation amending the regulation on framework curricula in public schools and artistic institutions. In the following year of operation of the revised provisions of the Act, the Teacher's Charter, conferring on the Ombudsman the rights of the child in disciplinary proceedings for teachers, cooperation with disciplinary agents and disciplinary committees resulted in changes in the perception of the rights of the child. Researchers and decision-makers are far more careful in their analysis of the child's rights and welfare. An important factor in protecting children's rights more fully from harm is their education in terms of their rights. As a result of the Ombudsman's intervention in pre-school and general education programmes, issues concerning the rights of the child were raised for primary school. The original draft regulation of the Minister of National Education did not include these issues in the content of educational and educational activities. The Ombudsman's repeated appeals to the Minister for National Education on the excessive burden of homework on pupils, in particular the 7th-graders, did not lead to systemic action by the Ministry, but triggered a wide public discussion and made this problem aware of the importance of the problem. This has led individual educational institutions to analyse the problems of children arising from the limitation of the right to rest and leisure and participation in cultural and artistic life, as well as full participation in family life and deepening social ties outside the school. Here, the directors, the teachers, those who have paid attention to this problem, thank you very much. A very important element in improving children's safety was to take into account the Ombudsman's request for the number of children at the same time being cared for by one guardian. The revision of the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 was fortunately abandoned by the idea of increasing this number. I will now move on to signaling to the High House areas of protection of the rights of the child, which still require urgent intervention by both the legislator and the executive authorities of the State. Since all these comments are included in the information presented, I will present those that are most urgent. This is the part that shows what else to do and what I will leave with a recommendation to take further action on my successor. The Ombudsman's comments on the child's right to life and health are as follows. Insufficient availability of specialist doctors and specialist services, including the need for children with rare high-specialist health care. The need for an annual examination of each child by a pediatrician. This is the realization of prevention, I'm talking about every healthy child here. The lack of medical standards in preventive care for children, i.e. their lack of legal circulation, because these standards have been developed, developed, Minister Zembala left them in the ministry. Dramatic situation in child psychiatry, dramatic, including insufficient protection for minors against self-harm, suicide attempts and suicides. The psychiatrists say it's no longer an alarm, it's a collapse, it's no longer a long-term plan, it's just to act here and now. Insufficient health care in schools, including the need to strengthen health prevention at an early stage of education. Limited availability of therapy for children with autism spectrum disorders. Use by children and pregnant women of alcohol and other psychoactive agents. Therefore, the campaign launched this week by the National Competency Centre under the patronage of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman under the title "Love." I don't drink. The limited availability of forensic experts in many areas of medicine, which are necessary for the assessment of disability. The problem of reducing child empowerment and the need to raise awareness of this issue. The problem of hospital infections, including drug-resistant bacteria. The problem for parents or legal guardians of minor patients is that they pay a child's stay in hospital. The Ombudsman's comments on respect for the right of the child to be raised in the family I'm going to say that this is the largest group of interventions that are being undertaken. The need to improve parental competence and to strengthen support systems for biological families. The need to give children and their families real access to specialist assistance. Why am I pointing this out? I'm talking about real access, because in documents, in regulations, some things have been written down in laws, but they're not. The need to strengthen the implementation of the right of the child to be raised by both parents, including the regulation of the so-called problem. Parental abductions. At this point I also bow low to the High House and thank you for entering the right of the child to both parents in the family code. We are the first country to write them so directly, speaking not only about the right of adults, but also about the right of a child. It completely changes optics. Low awareness of the consequences of abducting a child abroad and low awareness of the rules of international law on jurisdiction in matters relating to parental authority. The need to change family law. As I have announced, before the end of my term of office, I will present to the High House a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the family code. [[Voice from the room: It's very important.]] Chronicity in the drafting of opinions by advisory teams of judicial experts. The instability of the educational environment of children placed in foster care. The problem of placing young children in institutional foster care. This problem has not been eliminated. We have good regulations here, but they're on paper, and unfortunately hundreds of children, little children, are still in nursing and upbringing facilities, which are, of course, governed by a court decision. The need to support the institution of the assistant family. I pay particular attention to this institution, because it has made over 17,000 children less in foster care during the first years of operation. This is very important, often underestimated, the role of assistants. Come on. The need to monitor the quality of the work of care institutions. More stuff. Insufficient monitoring of the fate of the child and his biological family by the courts. Limiting children outside the family to biological contact with loved ones, unfortunately often for punishment. A small number of adoptions of children with disabilities and older children. The need to ensure better protection of children's rights in matters of international adoption. The need to ensure that underage mothers are able to raise a child. Come on. Insufficient representation of the child. Inefficiencies of enforcement procedures. We will also respond to this problem under the proposed family code. Inefficiencies of child-parent execution proceedings. The need to listen to the child about him. And that is a very important and general problem. Listening to a child, talking to a child is what is written in the article. 72. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, this is not carried out directly. And that's what you need to be reminded of. The child has the right to speak on matters concerning him. Moreover, 90% of Polish children are the most important in terms of the right of the child, indicating the right of the child to express his or her own opinion. Come on. No procedure for the hearing of a child in civil proceedings. The need to promote mediation in family matters. The need to regulate the status of guardian in family and caring matters. More stuff. The institutions do not take foster care of the return of children to biological families. Insufficient representation of unaccompanied minors. The need to ratify the III Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Here, on this occasion, I point to this once again, and also ask that we take possible action, so that this Third Protocol, which the United Nations has adopted on the initiative of the Polish Ombudsman for the rights of the child, ratify, that we should not be on the tail of the world when it comes to ratifying something that is kind of our duty, a country which in the world is called the homeland of the rights of the child. This is the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. No obligation to test genetic material in child origin cases. And one last thing. The need to guarantee the child's exercise of the right to national identity and the incorrect implementation of the provisions on the authorisation of a minor foreigner to reside for humanitarian reasons. High Izbo, the Ombudsman's comments on the respect of children's rights to decent social conditions are as follows. The difficult situation of families outside the state aid scheme. Inequal treatment of families with regard to access to education. The problem of homelessness among children. That's the problem we've been diagnosing and he's been at the same level for years. Where are those kids? With my parents in the lodges. But homeless shelters are no place for children. They're not right in any way. Those kids should be home with their parents. Come on. There is no guarantee of housing needs of families with children. This is also related to this issue. No homes for mothers and fathers with minors and pregnant women. That's another line. Limited access to benefits from the Asylum Fund. The threshold has not been raised for many, many years; low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. Come on. There is no adequate support system for persons leaving foster care. These people are often left to themselves, which is how they get out. The need to improve the quality of the self-emancipation process is very linked. And one last thing. Insufficient assistance for children with disabilities; the need to ratify the next protocol, the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; the inconsistency of the case-law of district decision-making teams. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the right of the child to learn is concerned, I am listing 10 issues here, which are described in more detail in the information, in the comments, 10 cases that I would like to signal to you today. The need to improve the quality of teacher training in practical preparation for work. The theory is important, but practice and everyday life is what children draw more from. That's one thing. Two. Unacceptable use in educational and educational establishments of penalties that violate the rights of the child. Yeah, it's happening. I must also say that I have been anxiously listening in public space for a few days to people who have high positions and functions that reflect the problem of beating children. It shouldn't be today. We have already held this debate and any justification for violence against children is shameful. Next case. The need to ensure a level playing field in the implementation of the right to learn for pupils with special educational needs. Come on. Overburdening pupils with homework and difficult situation, especially seventh graders. As much crying as I hear, as many complaints, as many requests as I got last year, and I get this year from this age group, from the seventh graders, there never was. I must say that this group of children must be really very attentive, because they, through this burden, by imposing additional obligations, may not be a good requirement. We'll be right back on the subject of insufficient children's psychiatrists. Children's psychiatry specialists say that now in Poland 400 000 children and young people need immediate help. Do you know how many children's psychiatrists are in Poland who can provide this assistance? There's 400 of them, 1 psychiatrist in 1,000. They can't. More stuff. The need for action to level the educational opportunities of children from rural areas and families with low material status. Unfortunately, often inappropriate cooperation between the school and the parents and guardians of the child. A parent at school can't be an intruder. A parent at school should be a desirable partner, a person who helps, cooperates. Come on. Inappropriate organization to transport children to schools and kindergartens. Problems with implementing the right of children with disabilities to rest. A very small percentage of leisure and leisure facilities is available for children with disabilities. And two more cases. The need to ensure the safety of children during compulsory school activities organised outside school premises and the need to guarantee access to new educational technologies, cultural goods, media, especially children with disabilities. High Izbo, the Ombudsman's comments on the child's right to protect against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment are primarily the need to eliminate the use of physical penalties against children. The rules are. The drop is. In 2008 78% people accepted it, today less than 50%, but it is more than 47%. It is necessary to develop and implement a national strategy to combat violence against children. This strategy is called upon by the Polish spokesman, the international bodies are calling for this strategy. To every country, not just to us. She will allow us not to duplicate the same actions, help more effectively, coordinate actions. I don't understand what the problem is. I have performed many times to the right resort, finally to the Prime Minister, and I have been told many times that there is no need. At this point, I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which supported the Ombudsman's appeal and requested the appropriate department to take action. Here's another thing. The need to assess the procedures for intervention in relation to the reporting of violence against the child. The need to ensure proper representation of the child and the conditions for interviewing minors of witnesses and victims. It is too rare to rule on criminal and testing measures to combat domestic violence. The need to ensure the safety of children experiencing domestic violence. The need to eliminate child abuse by carers and teachers. The need to increase the participation of medical services in the recognition of child violence. There's a paragraph in those medical records that talks about the diagnosis of a abused child's syndrome, practically unusable on a daily basis. And we have abused children and it's worth noticing and extracting them. The need to extend the catalogue of cases excluding the institution of the conviction. Peer violence in schools and institutions, including cyber violence. Prejudging a child in public space. The need to reduce the phenomenon of detection of children of foreigners in Poland. The need to guarantee minors and their families access to international protection at the border of the Republic of Poland. The need to guarantee the exercise of the rights of minors placed in police child chambers. The need for uniform rules for the performance of tasks by probation centres. The need to implement the educational measures applied to minors. There are no questionnaires to estimate the threat of violence and the algorithms to deal with cases of diagnosed violence. Insufficient protection of minors' rights in shelters for minors, legal proceedings and insufficient guarantees of their right of defence. The introduction of appropriate procedural guarantees for minors of aliens. And the last in this category: begging with child abuse. A topic that needs attention every year especially before holidays, when it becomes more active. But here I am grateful to the Ministry of the Interior for making the recommendations I have requested, which have been handed over to the police. And I ask, as every year, to remind them especially during this period. High Izbo, my mission as a child's attorney is coming to an end. From this point of view, I would like to thank you very much for all the years of cooperation, for your initiative and for the positive implementation of the Ombudsman's demands for the fuller protection of the rights of the child. Especially in this House, I thank you because this cooperation was particularly good and especially when I came here with any idea, I had a sense of hearing and acceptance for better implementation of the rights of the child. For the past 10 years, since the first time you've been here on this floor, you've been interrogating me for a few hours, listening to me as a candidate for a spokesperson, I knew I'd have partners to work with here. And it was. Thank you very much for that. Thank you to those senators who wrote every day, applied, handed over cases. That's what Senator Orzechowska was talking about at the committee meeting yesterday. Thank you very much for those important words that... and she's the one who used to write to me, and I have to say that during this term, the senator was the one who was most likely to pass things on. And if she thought that each of these cases had been dealt with with with proper security, then I am particularly pleased. I address these words to you, too, because it is you who deal with these matters every day, my colleagues, today the directors of each department. Thank you very much. Keep up the good work. Advocates change, and problems need to be solved. And I hope that's still the way it's gonna be. With my heartfelt thanks, I would like to assure you that while I am completing my duties as spokesperson, my mission to protect the rights of the child will continue to be realized because it is my passion and an indication of the direction of my life for more than 30 years. At the same time, I ask for further kindness for the idea of protecting the rights of the child in Poland. Our country has invaluable merit in this field and I want it always to bear the proud name of the homeland of the rights of the child. We are proud that these initiatives, those people who reported them, are our ancestors. But nobility obliges and in order to maintain this pride, one must act as Korczak said, as Irena Sendlerov showed with her life. Anyway, I have a surprise for you, a little gift that I've been able to prepare for today. These are Irena Sendler's glasses. Irena Sendler's daughter said, "Take it, because glasses are such a symbol of wisdom." So I think this symbol of Irena Sendler, the patron saint of this year, a great character who doesn't need to be presented, who said that every sinking person should be given a hand so that we can always, wherever we can, give this hand and be ready to give it... Children need special care and special protection. There are weaker and stronger groups in every country. The children are the weakest. I hope that the affairs of children will continue to be matters by the higher chamber of parliament given priority, that my successor will also be able to cooperate with you and will have the support and support that I have had. I knew that if I didn't know who else to go to, then if I went to the Senate and talked to individual committees, I'd find allies. There is also a bachelor of the Order of Smile in the Senate, Senator Sagatowska. I would like to point out that the sun of the Order of Smile is shining here, very important. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for the opportunity to present this information. Of course, I'm at your disposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u179	Minister, please remain in the bleachers. I will first read the message that the text of the Minister's information, contained in print No 778, is widely available and that the Marshal of the Senate received the information, addressed it to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took note of the information at its meetings on 5 June 2018 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would now like to ask if any of your senators would like to ask a question to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Minister Mark Michalak. I noticed Senator Shark first. You're welcome. Then there'll be others. Of course, I see all the other reports. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u180	Thank you very much. Minister, since this is indeed the last meeting in the Senate, I would like to personally thank you for the Agnieszka we know together. Thanks to your personal friendship with Agnieszka, a hard-experienced life and also very disabled... She got her driver's license, became a brave girl, sometimes even crazy, as the Minister often said, but who also supports others at the moment. It's because of you, thanks to your personal friendship. You've really put a lot of optimism into it and more than that. You supported her all the time. And thank you very much for that. And I wanted to ask you a question... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: I must say, Senator, that this is your optimism and your actions, but thank you very much for sharing...]] [[Ask me a question.]] My question... You've pointed out cases that haven't been settled, which you might be handing over to your successor. I don't know. Maybe I didn't hear it. I also want to know if the inaccessibility right now is due to a significant increase in the price of medicines for post-transplant children... Some parents have to give up on them. Did you speak to the Minister of Health? And what's the final effect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u181	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u182	Thank you very much for those good words and for reminding me of the information. I also warmly greet Agnieszka, because she's with the senator... I performed twice to the Minister of Health on this matter, presenting information resulting from my analyses, but also from what my parents wrote above all because it was a huge threat that they would stop treating children because they would not be able to afford it. This problem hasn't been solved. I'm pointing him in the info.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u183	The question you're asking is Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u184	Thank you very much. I have two questions. The first concerns a fragment of the Ombudsman's statement. Namely, you said that when it comes to legal proceedings, it is inappropriate to take care of those proceedings that concern children. I'd like to ask if you have any knowledge of the long-term pre-trial procedure in a situation where children are victims of crime. I'm particularly allergic to sexual crimes. Children are often responsible for these acts. Both the child is the perpetrator and the child is the victim or the minor is the perpetrator. I would particularly like to feel that the police, the prosecutor's office, should pay particular attention to these proceedings simply in the shortest possible manner. The second issue which almost every year signaled the issue of life of children in the so-called. social housing, social housing or rotational blocks They are often called by local governments. Well, unfortunately, things aren't getting any better, and they're getting worse. There, children grow up far away from maturity, or 18, and there are various other problems, young mothers, etc. And the third thing I'd like to mention here is the positive thing you said about begging children on the streets. At least in my area, which is South Carpathian, the case of these children, those mothers with babies kneeling or sitting on the streets has been solved, and it's not there at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u185	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u186	The senator pointed out more important problems than she asked questions, but I will also refer to them. Thank you very much. As far as these investigations are concerned, I have repeatedly gone to the prosecutor's office in the higher order or even to the attorney general if I can see the insecurity of the minor's interests. But I'd say more. Because here we are talking about preparatory proceedings, but also the chronicity of the proceedings themselves is a big problem. That's what I'm talking about in the news, and for 10 years I've been pointing it out as one of the main problems, because unfortunately this is happening. But not securing the interests of a child who has suffered such a special form of harm, absolutely always requires a response. I have to say, I think the reaction of outsiders is getting more and more frequent, watching, concerned, because people write to me... [[Or peers.]] Yes. But I'm talking about the reaction of people who point out that I think something's wrong, and they're asking if the spokesperson could look into these files. It is very important that the spokesperson can look into them, because the Polish spokesperson is the only spokesman in the world who can. [[But before it gets to you, it's happening.]] Yeah, yeah. I'm not saying there's no problem, but we have faster response instruments, too. The powers of the Ombudsman introduced first in 2008, those procedural, very important... Defend the State of these powers, because the Polish Ombudsman can thus act more effectively. We have spoken to my colleague from Greece, but we have also spoken to other colleagues of spokespersons in other countries. That's what... They're not gonna look into the file, they can't look into the court case, and we've taken a huge step forward. That's a big deal. And there is also a great "Thank you," because it was from the Senate that concrete actions came out. And that's it, Mr. Senator, what happened. Social housing. I noticed an even bigger problem, which is the place to stay. Because it's still... [[Social homes...]] Yeah, social, the senator is absolutely right. Whatever it may be called, these are the areas of the problem, and there are ghettos there. There, things can be more evident. Of course you have to make all kinds of... [[As a self-government...]] Yes. And not just the government, because there are actions and central, and local. There must be cooperation here. But that's the subject I'm taking. From 2008 onwards. And I didn't withdraw this remark in any year, because this housing problem is still there. I hope so. 'Cause there's some announcements. That it would go towards security, especially for families with children. Especially them, because they're... But the senator also said that things aren't getting any better. Me too... [[May I, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u187	You want me to be more specific? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u188	Yes, to clarify. Because at this point, I remembered the words of one of the city's managers. To my mind, if you're building a new block, you could separate those people who lost their apartment, for example. as a result of poverty, because they were unable to pay the rent and were accommodated... The point is not to put them where addicted alcoholics are, different families... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Good point.]] And I heard this answer: you know, we're not gonna stand out. But it wasn't about distinguishing, it was about understanding the problem, what people are dealing with, at what stage of their lives. Because they can get out of this easily, or they can get in even worse trouble in this company than the ones they've had so far because of not paying for the apartment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u189	♪ If you need help ♪ 'Cause here, I understand, it's about the really needy, 'cause we can stand out for someone, so let's stand out. That's what Iren Sendler would do. [[That's how I felt...]] Begging. I'm excited about that signal, because different... I get these signals, sometimes people call, and I've called the police a couple of times myself, seeing... But I wanted to see how the servants would react, whether they would respond to standards. And I have to say with satisfaction here that they already know what to do, they come quickly and react. But this problem will always take place if there is a social permit. Once Wroclaw conducted such a beautiful campaign I do not give on the street. Because it is very important that we be aware that there are skylights, there are canteens, there are places that you can direct to really needy people. Self-government together with non-governmental organisations, because they are the ones who most often do this, should act in such a comity. Years ago in my town, I gave an address note to people who helped others and guaranteed that every child who applied to my facility would get help there. And in a situation like this, if anyone wants to help, it helps the institution, helps the facility. It's transparent, it's accountable, it doesn't cause a situation... Because a different situation is when a child really needs a buns, but another one when someone is behind it and settles them: give me the 5 zlotys, give me the 2 zlotys, give me the... Well, then it's trade. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And there's lively stuff out there. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u190	Thank you. You have a voice now, Senator Kilian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the present civilization poses many risks to the upbringing of children and young people. My question: which of the threats Is alcoholism or robbery or drug abuse the biggest problem for parents in their upbringing? Are there any references to this study in your department? Has your resort taken any action that will allow parents to target them in order to address this problem of raising children and young people, the problems that parents face in relation to the problems they face? Is there such knowledge and action to address the problem of child and youth upbringing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u192	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u193	Thank you. Senator, since diagnosis and analysis, there are appropriate government agendas. In this case, we are talking about the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, the Center for Drugs Prevention and many others. We take these topics, we take them and we analyze them, because it is very important that, on the basis of calculations, on the basis of observations of increased risks, we direct speeches to individual resorts, paying attention to it. If I had to tell you what's the biggest problem... the problem of addiction is that there's a lot of problems at all. The problem of alcoholism is happening, the problem of drug addiction is happening, but we already have new addictions. From the point of view of the Ombudsman, disregarding the subjectivity of the child sometimes resulting from this problem or from another... If I were to tell you what the biggest problem is, but statistically, I would say that from what affects my office, it appears that these are divorces, that is to say, not to secure the child in the proceedings when adults decide to disperse. My answer was the campaign "I am mom and dad," which also led the High House to believe that it is necessary to change the rules and introduce the right of the child to both parents. It's often with those problems you're talking about, the senator is connected, he's connected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u194	Now you're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! 2 questions, one more general and then detailed. I was a little concerned about some kind of asymmetry, lack of symmetry in matters related, let's call it, with contacts between Poles and Poland with abroad. Well, we are shocked every now and then, by public opinion, by taking children away, by banning speaking Polish abroad. Such cases are a little bit, and according to the Advocate General's statements, your interest in this case is much less. I counted these speeches 5 times less than in the case of protection of foreign affairs in Poland, and in this respect Maybe it doesn't get to the public. There are much fewer cases of appallment. Please tell us how it really is, how many interventions, letters addressed to you from outside Poland, of course Polish citizens, and how many letters from foreigners. Is this asymmetry associated with this number in general speeches? That's the first question. The second does not directly concern the report, but I would ask for an answer. Have you received any unusual complaints, and if so, how much?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u196	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u197	I can answer the senator precisely because I have a list here last year. Cases concerning the protection of the rights of minors aliens. 181; minor Polish citizens abroad. 112; international parental abductions, Haska Convention 62... These are the data that... It is also worth noting, if we are talking about cases conducted abroad or cases of citizens of other countries in Poland, that the spokesperson abroad does not have powers The best I can do is turn to my counterpart. I usually agree that if he had powers like the Polish spokesperson, he could help me. I can do that, too. And most of the time I'm doing it. Ask the Polish diplomatic post, the consul. I do this often and the consuls are already complaining to the Foreign Minister that it takes them a lot of time to check cases reported by the Ombudsman. But the citizens are writing, and I'd like to help them. In Poland I have more easily, because here I have certain powers and whether the case concerns a Polish child or a non-Polish child, they are still the same. Any child who goes to our country can be taken care of by the Polish Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I don't see if the baby is Polish, Chechen, Syrian. If a child is in need, he must be helped. That's why this activity and reporting about it. As far as the emergency complaint is concerned, I'm no longer the person who can file it. I think I've received two requests in this regard. There was no problem, but Parliament decided that the Ombudsman would not file this complaint.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u198	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you about this first case.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u199	Because as far as the second question is concerned, we're aware of that. This first question relates to the external relations of Poland. Do you think that there should be a change in our legislation, Mr Spokesman? Is there anything that would simplify or make it possible for us to do better? It's not just about your body, it's about issues related to government powers, and so on. Is there anything we can push here? [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: But this is about outside action?]] Outside, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u200	If we are actors of international law, I was talking about conventions or optional protocols for ratification, then it is certainly easier for us to also work with different institutions, other countries and international organisations, and therefore I would like to draw attention to this. Our internal regulations will not make it easier for us to do this outside, because they apply within our country. We need to work together. We also need to take actions that will allow Polish citizens to know, because ignorance is often the cause of mistakes made abroad. I've been trying to get the Foreign Minister to do a social campaign like this for a while. Together, I will also help her, as in Latvia, even if it had happened. In order to raise awareness of people leaving, e.g. billboards at the airport and in any other way, so that they are aware that European law is European, but some regulations that apply and protect children in Poland, apart from Poland, will not protect them. Not knowing is a common case of conflict with the Hague Convention. The parent thinks that if he has a child physically with him, he can go with that child where he wants, because it's his child, and the child is two parents, and to leave the country where he was raised or in which he was born, he has to get the consent of the other parent, and if that's not possible, the court's surrogate consent. That's where the problems start. We will be able to respond to these problems, as I said, through these rules introducing a cassation complaint from the Hague Convention. 'Cause it wasn't, and I've been asking for it for years. Or taking further action only when the proceedings are valid. That way we can protect the kids better, because now we can't... I had a huge problem because my parents most often applied to me after second instance, when I no longer had the opportunity to help them. Because if they had come forward before... a few years ago there was this situation, even very loud, Polish-Bulgarian. Your first steps were directed to the Ombudsman's office, and the director led her in such a way that she, in accordance with the rights of the child, could secure those children. But if she'd made a mistake, the Bulgarian state would have made that mistake, too. Well, then the Minister of Justice of Bulgaria took the side of the Polish mother. I was very active in this, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u201	Senator Szymanski. There you go. [[And Klein?]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry, I misread it. Senator Klein was first, Senator Szymanski next. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, in your speech, you spoke about the matter to which you have attached and attach great importance to the right to education, to the education of children, so that this science and education is as high as possible. This has also been the case for children in rural areas; it is the problem of education exclusion. I would like to draw attention to such a problem, probably from the perspective of the Polish marginal, but occurring in Kashubach and there quite important. Because Kashubian children have the right to learn Kashubian. This science is subsidised from the state budget; the State is spending even substantial, large resources for this purpose. The language of Kashubian is already taught by about 20,000 children. That's a lot, that's a lot. Of course, these measures could be far more, even many times more. It seems to me that the obstacle for this to spread, especially in areas where the Kashubian language is widely used, is that the Ministry of Science finances it according to this principle: the smaller the group of children learning the Kashubian language, the higher the subsidy for the municipality. The municipalities sometimes, unfortunately, also take advantage of the fact that they receive it in the form of subsidies and allocate it to other purposes because they have the right to do so. In this context, there are often paradoxical situations in which parents ask their children to learn Kashubian at school, but schools or municipalities in various ways, so to speak, discourage children from doing so, because if they exceed this indicator, then they will not receive any subsidies for learning Kashubian at all or will receive much less. My office is addressed by a lot of people from the Kashubian communities, who pay attention to this; it is especially the parents of older children who would like to continue this school in junior high... Well, in middle school maybe less, but especially in high school. Did the spokesperson pay attention to this problem? Did that get to you? Is there any initiative to be taken here? Maybe. 'Cause you still have a few months to work. It would be useful to identify, analyse and see what changes should be made here so that there is no real problem in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u203	Thank you very much. I assure the High House that until the last day of office, until the day when my successor takes office, I will be very intensive, as until now, leading this office. And here we don't give up for a moment. I don't know the problem because no one's ever reported it to me before. If the senator wishes to take the subject, and he can give me additional information, please give it to me. The head of the education team here has already noted something, but the details would certainly help us a lot. Of course, I'll take it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u204	Thank you. Now, Senator Szymanski, announced earlier. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the foster care system in Poland. We've rebuilt it very clearly in the last few years. We went to a large extent towards family foster care, leaving, of course, institutions where they were needed. Indeed, this is a major change; individual governments have put importance to it. This is very important, but it should be noted that the number of children in these different forms of care . foster families related, unrelated, various institutions It hasn't decreased in many years, and it's almost 1%. Polish children. That's a lot, given that there are hardly any natural orphans there, quite uniquely happens half orphans. These kids have both parents. And that's almost 1%. Polish children. At the same time, Polish families are becoming wealthier, poverty is becoming scarcer, as we know; we have actually created a new profession, which is the assistant of the family, more and more school teachers etc., etc. Where is the reason that such a huge number of Polish children... This is our negative distinction against the background. many countries of our civilization. Why are there so many kids? And would there be any advice from your spokesperson on this matter? either today, or in the form of general speeches to the government To make a difference, to make something better, so that this number of children decreases from 70 to e.g. $30,000?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u206	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. This is a very sensitive, delicate and very important problem in this work. Many of my speeches Mr. Senator knows them because he's been following the subject up on an ongoing basis about child protection, child support and the Family Support Act. I know, but only from public information that there's work going on at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to revise the law on supporting the family. I regret to admit that the Ombudsman was not invited to this work, although he was an active participant in any amendment of this act. I don't know exactly where the work is going and when it's going to work. That number's down a little bit. I'm sure it's reduced as far as the institutions are concerned. The senator noticed that, too. We've gone under 20,000 when it comes to children in the institution. It's a lot. [[Voice from the room: Globally...]] Globally in the first 2 years, it decreased by 17,000 700, but we attribute this activity to family assistants. Mr Senator also pointed out that there are measures on the one hand and the number of children on the other hand is not decreasing. This is important because it shows that children are not there for social reasons. My research by the Supreme Chamber of Control, as well as the ministry's agenda, the Institute of Justice, has shown that they are most often child-protected because of violence, children who have been exposed to danger in their home environment. And that's why it was decided. Once again, the studies of all three of these institutions indicated that there were no cases of child withdrawal in Poland due to the material situation. There were other reasons, most often neglect, abandonment, and violence. [[That's not true.]] Well, I know the file, Mr. Senator. I also think that the problem is that courts are not fast enough to regulate the legal situation of children. Many children who could have a family, even if adopted, are waiting for their parents to convert. A lot of them aren't gonna make it, and they're gonna spend their whole lives in a facility. I draw attention to this in the information about the state of compliance with the rights of the child, but this is a problem that needs to be analysed on a multifaceted basis. Undoubtedly, the activities of a family assistant and good cooperation are important here, but this also involves a point on parental competence. We should do it more often. This is often my conclusion when I proceed to the proceedings to direct for help, to direct parental and educational skills to workshops, to stimulate. If there are more referrals, there will also be more programs for parents. They need it very often. There they will learn how to get out of the problem of violence, sometimes they can. Or a problem with addiction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u208	Thank you, Minister. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Thank you.]] Now you have the floor, Senator Grabowski, our secretary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u209	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have questions about five issues, really. I listened to you very carefully. I'll try to put it all out in a little bit. There's a lot of accomplishments. It's a fact. But, as you point out, there's still a lot to be done. And I'd like to ask you as a representative of the ruling party... [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: Oh, excuse me.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's this?]] I do. Kids don't have... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: This is abuse.]] For clues... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: I am not a representative of any party.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let me ask you a question.]] Minister, will you let me finish? [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: None.]] Will you allow me, Minister, to finish? [[Finish it.]] I'd like to ask you for directions to the ruling party. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: Okay.]] It's about guidance for the ruling party on what needs to be done. You pointed out a matter that would remain to be resolved. This is the annual examination of the child. Another one you pointed out was suicide among the children. The next one is health prevention in schools. Another is the availability to specialist doctors. The last thing I came across was, so to speak, quite brutally. It's a search or an attempt to help with the search for rehabilitation tournaments or rest for children with disabilities. I, as a senator, tried to so say, tame this topic and to be honest, this is a very difficult topic because there are no such offers on the market, and the children in need are very, very much. And I would like you to say, in fact, briefly on these five points, what you are proposing and what you have done so far, what you have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u210	Minister, the senator asked me to briefly... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: I mean, the senator specified what I pointed out.]] It's pretty short.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u211	But I'm pointing it out. There are more of these points in the information and they are more structured because they are justified. When I'm talking about prevention, I'm talking about testing every child, I'm talking about the availability of a specialist doctor, I'm talking about evaluating pediatric procedures... There's no way to take care of children, good care when there's no way to get to the right doctor. Pediatrics is... [[What actions have been taken?]] Appraisal of pediatric procedures is concrete. Here you can make a decision quickly, just... I mean, we're not gonna have any more doctors, we're not gonna have better availability if they don't want to do this job. I'm paying attention here because this applies to all pediatric specialties, but especially to psychiatric doctors. Look at the level of suicide among children, for example. What about psychiatry? I talked about it at the committee meeting, but maybe I'll tell you again so you know why the doctors say there's a collapse. In my office I recently held a meeting with a national consultant and voivodship consultants in the field of child psychiatry, which is in a narrow plot, but extremely important, because today the troops are closing down because there are no doctors. Exactly. And they won't be there if they're so responsible... [[He'll be here in 10 years.]] No. If they bear such responsibility and it will not be gratified, and the conditions will be as they are, they will not choose this profession because it is a very serious profession. And what the consultant said was a little late for a meeting at my place... He says, "You know, I'm late, I'm sorry, but I was just looking for a place in the hospital to spread the blanket, because suddenly there's a patient with suicidal thoughts, a young patient. And I say, "How?" Because that's what it looks like today. The mattress's already taken, it's still blankets. And your consultant said that she's really wondering today which prosecutor should be more afraid of. Or whoever's going after her for not taking the baby, and she killed herself, or whoever's going to go after her for taking the baby and not providing him with the right conditions, and something bad could happen in the ward... I mean, I'm saying this to show you the importance of today's problem. This is a problem unsolved over the years. Today we have it, and today it is undoubtedly spoken of by specialists, because everyone in their field analyses the problem and has ideas. If there is no bold appreciation, not gentle, of type 0.1 and 0.2, but concrete, showing that something is going to move, the doctors will not move to that direction. Today it borders on the miracle of getting into a child psychiatrist privately, not even in any other way. I did one thing about it, and I hope that's the first important step. I persuaded the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help to cover all the psychiatry units of children's psychiatry this year and equiped them, because it's still the doctors saying that screws or wire beds are turning. They haven't been mentioned for many years, and that's the problem, because it's also associated with other things that happen later. Introducing a survey of each child every year Mr. Senator, that's where he started. It's such a prevention that we're gonna screen all the cases that can be protected, directed, just so we have a location. Yes? Like oncology cases, it's for oncologists, like gastrology. It's for the gastroologist. Because if we do, and the oncologist doesn't get a kid in a year and a half, then no, that's a sentence for the kid at all. A sick child needs help right away. These diseases are absolutely... It's different from adults. We can wait a while longer, the kids can't. That's why this pediatrician is so important, and this pediatrician's defense on the front line was so important that it didn't turn out that the children would be tested not by their doctor. Because it's like Korczak said, that there are no children, there are people, but he pointed out: about a different scale of concepts, about different sensitivity, otherwise we look at them, we react differently. That is why it is so important, and Poland has done so, that alongside the large institution of the Ombudsman is the institution of the Ombudsman who specialises in this plot. We sometimes have different opinions when the interests of the adult world and the interests of the children are in contact somewhere, but the important thing is that... I repeat, we have given the children this legal protection, and we must also take courageous action, here above all financial.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u212	The voice has... [[Can I ask you another question?]] Yes. The senator will ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u213	Excuse me, Minister, I would like to go back to this last topic of mys, about rehabilitation and rest of children with disabilities, which is really a problem, is the problem with finding places. What kind of prescription would you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u214	That's what I said about my remarks, too, Mr. Senator. I was talking about it because I study it every year when I control it, and I control it a lot, winter and summer holiday facilities. I also study it, always... My Visitor is investigating what is the availability or offer... [[Weak.]] Yeah, weak, under 2%, that's 1% with a hook, that's where it comes in. What's the prescription? Introduce rules that any facility that accepts children should be accessible to all children should not discriminate against children.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u215	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Duda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, you raise, raise, and you will probably continue to say that the powers that the Polish Ombudsman has against Europe or even the world are quite serious, so you have some freedom of action and your successor or successor will also have such freedom. But I think you've struggled with whether or not you've struggled with different problems over the last ten years. Would you suggest a change in the law, so that the effectiveness of the measures taken can simply be strengthened? Is there any other area that you care about? That's the first line. Two. There are times when you have mentioned this, and you have just mentioned it, such suggestions that why would a spokesperson for the rights of the child, if he could be a deputy for children at the Ombudsman's office. So the question is... I understand... From my point of view, this idea is missed, but maybe it would help somehow... Besides, you picked up the fact that it's really that specific... what Korczak was talking about, etc., etc., etc. I'd like you to take that into account. And one last thing. We once managed to run such a project together with the National Competency Center, such a campaign I love. I don't hit, now I love. I don't drink. Would you like to dedicate another campaign to your successor or successor? Does your view of the situation and the needs of children indicate that a campaign should sound in public space? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u217	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. When it comes to strengthening powers, I must say that at the moment these powers are really strong, they are at a good level. If it is the will to strengthen the Ombudsman's institution, it will have to be strengthened budgetly, so that even if controls can carry out more people; so that these checks can be described more quickly and that proposals can be transmitted more quickly, because we have a problem with this; that the best lawyers work in the institution, and I do not have to say that the best expect the best incentives. This is important. I know it's a problem for a lot of public institutions, but since it was triggered, that's what I'm talking about. You know, I've never come to complain, thanked you for what happened, asked for kindness for the future. But if so... This is definitely the direction that needs to be... It is necessary to strengthen the institution in terms of interventional, competenceal possibilities, because these matters, see, from year to year... I guess I started at 6,000 in 2008, and I got up to 50,000 some year ago. Well, it's a little less now, but a little bit. That's the main thing. I think that's related to the second question, too. And I thank you for that, because there have been discussions about it, sometimes they appear in public space. I'll tell you with all my power. I'm actually going to repeat what I said in 2008, but now I'm even more convinced of it, and I know more about it. That if anyone wants to harm Polish children, he will either eliminate or limit the powers of the Polish Ombudsman. This is an absolutely wrong direction. If he wants to help, he'll support him. Notice that an adult has more opportunities for action. His work is followed by trade unions, he has an influence on the selection of his representatives to the Sejm, to the Senate, he must be reckoned with. If the child does not receive direct support at home and then this institution, he may be left to himself, he may cry in secret. And one more thing. If the spokesperson for the rights of the child is to be a deputy, which means he's to be subordinate... So what? The children's business is less important? Are these second-class citizens? And if this chief spokesperson Whatever his name is, he could be from other things. He's gonna have another idea, he's gonna think that adult rights are more important than children's rights... And I remind you that the rights of the weaker are always the first and human rights should not be compared. We've gone in the right direction. Today we have the right to be proud of it and praise us for it. Last year, Marta Santos Pais, representative of the High Secretary of the United Nations, who visited Poland for the third time, was at the Third International Congress of Children's Rights, which I organized. She thanked Poland very clearly and very loudly for what she was doing to protect the rights of the child, for giving real opportunities to the representative of children, the defender of the rights of the child, and she drives around the world, she knows all the advocates, she knows most of the countries of this world, because she is still traveling. If that's the case, then I think, let's not ruin it, it's better to build. Campaigns. This campaign is, as it were, an additional action. The Ombudsman doesn't have a record, there's no record that he has to do it. He's doing it in addition, but he's doing it because he thinks they should be. Undoubtedly campaigns showing the specifics of the child's world, the needs of the child, unprotected, but also encouraging the competent treatment of the child, are needed. I produced a campaign this year about peer violence. I was talking about domestic violence, I was talking about neighborhood violence, I was talking about violence in other places, I was talking about the need to react. I found that the next stage was the campaign of "Courage saves lives," which was directed to middle school students and, as a rule, encouraged us to think that today's hero is not the one who goes with the crowd and when the crowd does wrong, he is also the one who does the wrong thing, but the one who can raise his head and say "I disagree," who can pull his friend away from drugs, cigarettes, vodka or some other bad thing in his environment. This campaign met with a lot of interest from young people. I know that because I always do. It's also a litmus paper. They write, they write, they thank, they criticize, they engage in dialogue, they point to something. The problem of violence came out of these letters, and it turned out that this is the next topic. Here I draw attention to the fact that you can't turn your head. Maybe one kid thinks I'm not gonna do anything. But if five more think that way, there's already six of them, and at this point they can do something. I think that's the right direction too. Now this campaign has started, I think, very much needed. I'm grateful to the National Competency Center because the spokesperson is patronizing it, but it was produced... Thank you to these ambassadors, ladies, ladies known on television who are expecting a child. But you know what's very disturbing, too? Each of these ladies, when talking about her condition, which means that she is or has just been pregnant, recalls that many times in different environments she has met with a proposal: drink a glass of wine, drink a glass of vodka. The surroundings do not see any impropriety in this. It's also important that we have a proper discussion... Because I've been proposing regulations, and in a minute, the rules will be in the code. But the recipe really is a secondary issue. The first point is that we have some conviction about this, because if this happens, it means that we have some work to do here too. At the end of my term of office, I must strongly point this out, and my successor will still have to do so. It is also worth knowing that in Poland every year 9 thousand children are born affected by the FAS problem, alcoholic foetal syndrome, and almost a thousand children, because 900... But we're only talking about the ones we know about, the ones we've diagnosed, and what's this dark number, we don't know that, it could be bigger. So about a thousand children are in this acute stage, and they're in this state. And these are children, where it is very often that they never leave any facility because no one wants to adopt them, and the family does not want to raise them. And you need to know to take action in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u219	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am very impressed by the report showing a really large multidimensional, multifaceted work, which required a lot of commitment, bringing together allies with certainty in different spaces. I would like to ask you to cooperate with the churches, in particular with the Catholic Church, and, of course, with regard to the separation between the state and the Church, a friendly chapter. The Church, as we know, has great potential for influence, especially in aspects such as violence against children in the family. Have you met with various types of church initiatives, or have you yourself seen such levels as to support you in your work, even by limiting violence against children in your families? Were there such initiatives on the part of the Church and were there joint ventures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u221	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Minister! I work with anyone who's willing to cooperate. I must say, if I were to judge here that I am patronising many initiatives of all churches. E.g. The Christmas Day of Helping Children connects 4 or even 5 churches, because also the Catholic Church, and Protestant churches. We meet as part of this charity plot very closely... As far as Caritas is concerned, I think I'm patronizing all actions that concern children in the country and outside the country. Among my social advisors is Father Żak, who is a representative of the Polish Episcopate for the fight against pedophilia, with violence against children. So these topics are also being addressed. Among my advisors is Professor Adam Solak, a prominent scientist, a person who is very clearly on the side of children, and those children who are discriminated against, and those children to whom violence is applied. He also represented me many times in various groups, including his environmental groups, where he clearly pointed out that from the perspective of people of faith, beating children is a sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u223	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u224	Mr Ombudsperson, I am referring to your statement on divorces and the failure of the judicial system to rule on the exercise of parental authority, and I would like to ask you whether you are not assessing this in such a way that the liquidation of a good few years ago of the institutions for the conciliation of divorce cases and the liquidation of jurors in matters decided by the regional courts, and concerning family matters, was probably a serious mistake which at the moment is giving rise to us. Because if there were an institution of reconciliation meetings, which are now trying to restore somewhat, but in the form of mediation proceedings, also having its shortcomings, which are not the time to talk about at the moment, and if we were to entrust judgment to jury formations, these hearings would probably be much more efficient, because using the experience of jurors in life. And so it is a situation that often young judges who themselves do not have marriages, or children, rule on matters that are often very abstract to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u225	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u226	This subject will be widely discussed and included in the family code that I will propose. This is what the codification committee is working on. This is undoubtedly a very serious subject. The subject of mediation, too. Senator, I understand he's critical of this in some part of the world. I am a great supporter of mediation, but available, well conducted by top-notch specialists. I'm in favour of this mediation. Besides, I am very supportive of peer mediation. This is a program to teach young people how to resolve conflicts in dialogue. She's getting more and more interested. The schools are taking it, and I know that there are good results later. Why am I referring to this, it would seem, a distant subject? Because if people learn to talk, they'll talk. Our problem is often that it is such a blur: no, because it is not, and instead of support, it is the burning of this conflict. Because I think that's what the senator meant, isn't it? There will be specific provisions in the family code that I will pass on to the High House to propose action in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u227	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion... [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak: Am I here somewhere...]] Yes, welcome to the government box. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Kazimierz Wind to speak. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to address, in some way, as you can see, a very comprehensive report, because this is 714 pages. I took note of this report, we discussed with your spokesperson at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. There is no doubt that the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's Office have done a great deal of work, which is described here. The spokesperson was talking about it. I even allowed myself to joke at a committee meeting that it is good that it is a good thing to limit the role of the Ombudsman for the second term of office, because the Ombudsman sends us more and more reports every year. I have all these, and I remember that at first it was half that volume, so the new spokesperson will probably start with a little bit smaller too. Mr. Spokesman has said a lot about his work. I would like to focus on certain shortcomings, maybe on a vision of the office itself, and maybe a vision of how to take care of a child and how to raise them. I'm sure it's that I always talk about this occasion so that intervention doesn't overwhelm the whole picture. The Ombudsman should take care of this and this should be the subject of general speeches covering as if the whole of the holding, i.e. all children. Of course, there are a lot of such general speeches here, but I must say that I have a feeling of a deficit in terms of concern and protection of the good. However, general speeches are largely reactive. If there's a problem, it's either an intervention or a general statement, or it's both. Right? And the point is to watch and see what the dangers are. Because children who are in a good position today and have no problems can have them tomorrow. We should act as a country that understands our role as subsidiarity, so as to safeguard the good and that it does not shrink. It should be like this, I'd say, deep prevention. Mr. Spokesman at some point said that the Ombudsman's role was very important and that he should not think about limiting it. Well, we see that the second figure here is the Minister of National Education. I'm sure we'd list other offices that care... A family minister, for example. These entities are several. I would even be tempted to say that the greatest concern of the Ombudsman should be to build sensitivity for both parents and those who, due to their local or state functions, should care for children. I've got a problem. He also deals with certain specifics. I talked about it at the committee meeting. In fact, everyone agrees... Commissioner Marta Santos Pais mentioned this last September in Warsaw. It's about cyberspace threats. It's not here. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: There he is.]] It is, but it's tiny, Mr. Spokesman. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: It is thorough.]] No, no. Two years ago, the report was accompanied by the results of the testing of these risks. I was convinced that such research would be followed by strong concretes, and it turns out that there is little about it here. In return, there's something that you spokesperson with due diligence, which I disagree with, writes here. Annex 9, page 647. Violence in It's time to stop! [[It's time to stop.]] [[Yes, sir!]] I'm reading this, ladies and gentlemen. It says three out of four children are victims of violence. Of course, one must do some intellectual and emotional work to read that it is a global scale. Lucky for you. It is different in Poland, but it cannot be read so clearly. It's only a lot of pages that say that parents asked about spanking their children... 84% says never, and 91% says in the last year at all. But at the beginning, under the motto "time to end it," in the third line it says that this applies to 3 out of 4 children. I have to say this: for me this economy, pedagogy is a little different and promoting good is the first place. Mr. Senator, the weather resolution... It was about building educational sensitivity... [[The senator won't forget this.]] I won't forget. ...in the social dimension. And that's very important. A separate case... I don't think I'd want to stick a stick in an anthill here. Is spanking child abuse? 'Cause that's the kind of thing that goes down here, too, so... Of course, these cyber threats are in peer violence. There was a speech to health and education ministers in connection with the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It is, I saw it, but as we look at the volume... Of course the rank of these speeches is very different. We're aware of that. But the second area is the media. There's been an appearance. It was about media abuse of the image of a child. But it's violence and all sorts of bad things... Well, that's what's missing here. Traditionally, like every year, I'll also talk about protecting the unborn. This is where the spokesperson talked about alcohol abuse or the use of alcohol by his mother. These are important issues, of course, but this is also fragmented. I must say that I have the greatest concern about some of the ideas made by your spokesperson about changing the concept of parental authority, here I am looking at your patron who knows these matters, because these are certain legal concepts. And that's a quote: as a pejorative and conflictogenic responsibility for parental responsibility. Well, we know these are very complex cases. And I have to say this: we have to see this whole emotional-intellectual-legal and family space and, on the one hand, build sensitivity, strengthen parents in their competences, because this 15-year-old will be a parent, so here the role of school and church, educational associations... Well, it's all very important. And on the other hand, the law must be wise. Well, it's gotta be smart. And I have to say that we are still living in a time when we remember The student put a bucket on the teacher's head. And we're trying to take away parental authority from our parents. So I'm... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the sense of writing, because the content is still... But we're talking about the fact that there are certain keywords whose use causes some reactions. If that's how I react, the probability that many other people will react like this is very high. That's why I'm talking about it. I have to say, we're alive... [[Time, time, Mr. Senator.]] Time, and I'm not halfway here yet. Horrible. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm gonna try and get this over with quickly. I mean. I'm sure it's just that we have the pressure to be so politically correct. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] And as a society, as a nation, as a state, we must defend ourselves against it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I mean. We cannot justify ourselves too easily, and at the same time we must stand in the truth, weighing all these rations. I have to say, thank you, of course... Here your marshal actually confounded me with this time, so I can't sort of collect it in an orderly manner, but on the one hand thanking the spokesperson, because this is a great job, we know it's a great job, and there were emergency situations when you had to suddenly stand up, act... But at the same time I would ask the other spokespersons to be able to limit this political correctness to what we have saved in Poland, the value of the family, because today she is the most sensitive tissue, and in some places you say that it is the family that is the most important place for the child. And thank you very much for those words, of course, as well as for this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u229	Thank you very much, Professor. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Dear Ombudsman's co-workers! Today, for the tenth time, we are considering the Ombudsman's report on his activities. When, in 2008, a 37-year-old Marek Michalak, a young boy, stood in this place where I speak, many of us wondered if he could handle the challenge. The launch wasn't easy. The actions of the predecessor have largely weakened the authority of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. You should have rebuilt it. What convinced me then and what later turned out to be a fantastic asset in the Ombudsman's work was that he became him before he took office. Mr Ombudsperson, you have not disappointed all those who have seen not only the appointed person in you, but the one who feels called, personally and on the whole, to stand up for the youngest, and among them especially those who are being harmed. Of course, I say it to our guest and I always say it. The children in Poland are doing well. Children in Poland mostly live in healthy fantastic families, with wonderful parents, excellent grandparents, surrounded by love, warmth. Because sometimes, when you read this great report, you get the impression that it is different. But it's not. I am surprised that you are not raising this, but recently thanks to the social programme, for example thanks to 500+, the material situation of many families with children has improved greatly. Good. It's worth talking good about. And this particular sketch of yours, the unique approach you've taken from your work in non-governmental organizations... I recognize such people from afar, because it's also my life's way. This particular drawing caused, Mr. Senator, I am speaking to the previous speaker. However, it was from the former reactive functions that the Minister went to offensive. As for this first issue, you were always there when people expected you to be. You had reflexes. You were there when things were bad. And it's hard to tell when the spokesperson wasn't at the tragic event, he didn't react. But above all, you had courage. Advocates have this particular position, one person, and here these characteristics of character are extremely important. You could put yourself in harm's way in the interests of the children. For eight years, I've been representing a ruling coalition. It wasn't easy with you, Minister. No one else has bothered you that much. But it was a real creative job. From pointing out, you're probably the first spokesperson to creating laws, to changing consciousness. It's been a fantastic collaboration for many years with the Senate. The Senate was looking for its place, seeing them, among others. in the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and all requests de lege ferenda, the applications of the Advocates precisely. That is why we could naturally be partners for each other, including the modernisation of the family and care code. Yeah, that's what we're doing together. After the committee meeting, we were just discussing the family and caring code today. Mr President, no one questioned one thing, the most important thing, i.e. that in the article. 58 must be guaranteed the right of the child to care for both parents. It's out of the question, fortunately. I remember the buoys for extra privileges for you. And then you argued with your accomplishments that it was worth making sure that the children were given an additional ally in the process, so that there would be someone who could really require reports effectively, may require a response, not like before, when a spokesman could be ignored. That is why I would also like to say that in this senate work you have been remembered as the creator of the rules that the government proposed, but which under your influence were definitely modified. I'm talking about the anti-violence law in the family, the law on those things you were talking about. You were the one who insisted on it and was able to stand up against most of the public, against many authorities, saying: stop violence in the family, stop beating the child. It's never been popular. I'm also thinking about the Babysitting Act up to the age of 3, about working on the Babysitting Act, etc., etc. There was a lot of that. Senator Wind was right to say that a change of consciousness is extremely important. But who did more in this case? There have been social campaigns, publications, events, broadcasts, interviews, we see it in every hospital, weeks of children's rights, and finally popularization of the phone trust. How many robots have been done, and what are the consequences? And yet they were doubting, also in this room, although I must say that the senators, although they had raised doubts, were usually, regardless of their options, kind to children, and therefore kind to you. You were able to build cooperation and partnership, because children's affairs aren't just about the Ombudsman. These are important matters for many institutions, for many organisations, also for local governments, with whom you were able to talk, cooperate, argue, and sometimes criticize them, urge them, or even apply for sanctions for local government institutions. We've witnessed it. Finally, there's something as important as patterns. You brought it to light and showed it as national heroes of real children's friends. It was a great work of consciousness. Those schools that bear the name of Janusz Korczak or Irena Sendlerova, these squares, these streets This will remain in consciousness. Because the most important thing, Mr. Ombudsman, is what will remain after this job, after this work. And there will remain laws, there will remain indications, there will remain, as we hear, further draft laws, amendments, including codes. And there will remain a pattern, a model of office, which cannot be seen only formally, but must be enriched with the great warmth that I observed during your visits. I'm sure you too, my dears, have seen it. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] You didn't need words, all you had to do was watch the spokesman react to meetings with the little ones, with the disabled, with the sick children, to know that he could add a lot, a lot of his own feelings, a lot of his own involvement, of his heart to the authority, in this case. And, Mrs. Marshal, all I'm going to say at the end is that there will also be a team of wonderful people around you who were able to match you. I hope this will be a great, significant legacy that will include your successor or successor. That's why thank you so much. I still have our senate additional thanks for the patronage and participation in the organization of the competition "List to Fathers" promoting good fatherhood, not in contrast, but as a partner supplement to motherhood. Thank you. Thank you for the job. [[Thank you very much...]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, for giving me a little more time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Colleagues! High Izbo! I had this reflection, and I asked myself if there was anyone in this room who had known Minister Mark Michalak longer than I did. And I thought probably not, because I had the honor and pleasure to meet him as a very young man, even then with a huge initiative and vision. Let me remind you, Mr. Ombudsman, and you that it was Świdnica, it was about the 1990s, I think it was the beginning. You then led one of the most vibrant organizations in Lower Silesia, my Lower Silesia, as I remember correctly, was called the Heart. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Yes.]] I remember well, thank you very much. I remember you. After all, we didn't get in touch for many years. As a person who impressed me with a vision of implementing the principle of subsidiarity, so important to me, enshrined in the Polish Constitution. And then NGOs may not have crawled, but it was a very difficult beginning of their various ups and downs, because that was the time. There was no funding, no stable programs, you had to push yourself very hard in that good sense to survive and to help those who could and had to be helped. I thank you for this too, because then from the office position, as a voivodship administration officer, I had this opportunity to learn what local activities of non-governmental organisations look like. And I would like to say that I will not refer to this report, because this is probably your last speech in the Senate, the Upper House, in the context of your 10 years of activity so far, the activities of your excellent team, but if during the last 10 years with your participation, and, as you know, it has been alternately, differently, once we had good times, once we had more difficult times, there were different events... And I want to say this with all responsibility and firmness: if there was an institution that was permanent, stable, consistent, friendly and fulfilling its mission at that time, it was an institution of the Ombudsman's rights of the child, but it was also an institution that has been very closely involved with Mark Michalak for the last 10 years, because it cannot be separated. And what I'm trying to say is he's got it for me. But I think it's for a lot of other people, too. Special importance, because it was a mission. It was the mission of Mark Michalak and his team, carried out in order to be very important, very important, so unrecognizable, namely to protect those who cannot defend themselves, those to whom the Polish state should show extraordinary sensitivity. And whatever anyone would like to say over the years or now about Mark Michalak, they can't deny him one thing, that is, sensitivity to the needs of children. And no one can tell me that he's ever forgotten what his mission is for 10 years. Yet, this activity and this sensitivity were manifested. I don't think I'll be wrong if I say so. In thousands of speeches, inquiries, intervention by the Ombudsman of children's rights, publications, patronages, decorations, various campaigns... And above all, in the day-to-day work of the spokesman and his office. But, as I understand it, it was not only the magnitude of Mark Michalak's activity that determined the success of his and his 10-year mission, because it was the quality of these activities that determined this. And I'd like to point that out. Because you can be somewhere for 10 years and even last, but it's about quality. And here too, Mr. Spokesman, for what you did. And for these 10 years, you've spoken and acted on the most difficult issues in the media, very difficult. You've been exposed to fire, and you've been under fire from different backgrounds, but you've always acted in the interests of those for whom defense and representation have been called. And whenever we heard during these 10 years that the Ombudsman had decided to speak, to speak, we could all be sure that he was on the right side and in the right interest. I would also like to wish to the future spokesperson or spokesperson in the next term of office that the bar which you have raised together to this level, this successor or successor would maintain, and it is really very high set. I do not want to say that Mr.Marek Michalak has been doing his job well, and can testify, as you all know, to the numerous awards and distinctions which the Minister has been a laureate and which he has received over the years for his work. Perhaps the ombudsman is of particular value to you, who have been granted by children and who have been decided by children, because they are the ones who can most accurately assess what has been done by the ombudsman over the years and what the effects have been. But what I'm trying to say is that if Marek Michalak could have been accused of being biased... And I also remember from our professional relationships that it wasn't easy. That's what Senator Augustine was talking about. These were difficult disputes, we have often differed and you have received these 10 years from each side, and from the previous one, and from the current power, I believe, but also from the social partners, from NGOs. We are familiar with examples of very hard disputes, but then it turned out that it was possible to communicate perfectly, and the Minister knows what I'm talking about. I think this is probably the best proof that you and your colleagues have created a real institution that is immune to political trends and electoral turmoil, for which I thank you very much. So if we can talk about someone today, I'm not afraid of that word. In my opinion, we can say that about Mark Michalak. And today we all miss this integrity so much. Then you can say so, Minister, Mr. Spokesman. At least a few more months of work ahead of you and make sure you don't mess it up. In good competitions you performed, finished the course and kept your faith. And I dedicate it to everyone who came to do public service. I hope we can tell each other at the end of it. Thank you very much, Minister and all of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman and the team! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to join you in these thanks to your spokesperson and the entire team that you created. I would like to thank you for this discussion today and for the discussions we held in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy during this term and in other terms, for the various contacts we have had. Sometimes we argued substantively, sometimes we had different opinions. I would like to say more about one thing. But it was creative and thank you very much for all this. I would like to choose from this whole area, which concerns the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, one issue which I will dedicate my speech to, because time is short. It seems to me that after your speech, after your second term of office, it is worth considering how this office should be empowered and what powers it should have. Well, I've been observing the work of various advocates. In the committee which I presided over several years ago, a project was created concerning the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, and it was then, during the Solidarity Election Action, that the first Ombudsman of the rights of the child took action. I would like to remind you that this constitutional office had at that time far more limited powers than at the moment. Mr. Spokesman said that someone who wants to restrict the rights of the current spokesperson would act against children. However, I would dare to take up this discussion, and this is not the first time. As you know, consistently at various committee meetings, when we talked about the structure, about the tasks of this office, I presented this very view. Well, you can go in the direction in which the office is developing at the moment, that is to say, taking legal matters, matters concerning various very important campaigns. You have presented a number of these campaigns here, and these are very good campaigns, very important campaigns. Without them, our lives would be much poorer in terms of safeguarding the rights of the child. These general speeches are extremely important, and there are a lot of them, and I appreciate that very much. But there is something worth considering, namely, whether the office should be interested in and concerned with individual matters, whether it should run a phone of trust and whether citizens should treat it as the last resort of rescue on individual matters, which are very many. Well, I am consistently in favour of the Ombudsman's office, led by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, of course, being the structure that promotes the rights of the child, participating in the legislative procedure and making its proposals, which is extremely important. I am very much in favour of general speeches referring to the various areas that concern children. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if we were to move towards the resolution of individual cases, the apparatus of the Ombudsman should be continually extended. It would have to be done, for example. the establishment of regional units, because there is so much to be done about children, and in various cases, that this administration would have to be developed consistently. In my opinion, that was not the constitutional idea, that is not the need. Today, I am very clear about the fact that I am in favour of an advocate of children's rights, who deals with generals, what needs to be resolved in general in Poland when it comes to children's issues. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a constitutional office of the Ombudsman in Poland, but there are very many mouthpieces of children's rights. There are parents, mentioned among others. by your spokesperson. There are relatives who are spokespersons and defenders of children's rights. There are hundreds of thousands of teachers. There are school counselors. They are, mentioned today, family assistants, a new profession, a few years ago. There are probation officers. There are judges, especially family judges. There are priests, nuns. There are ministries of family and justice and there are many other offices. There's social assistance, there's social workers, there's thousands of social workers. The Ombudsman, the Constitutional Office, will not replace these workers. They're in their places, locally. There are local governments, committees in local governments, etc. But there is nothing to replace the Ombudsman in terms of general speeches in terms of legislation and signalling matters that are generally important when it comes to solving children's problems. So let us consider at a time when the next term of office of the next Ombudsman will soon end, whether this office should develop in the direction I have proposed. At the same time, my proposal is not intended to reduce the number of employees. I believe that those workers who are at the office at the moment would be better used if they were all working on these general affairs that I am talking about. Because I'm aware of the fact that the examination, for example. intervention cases, checking the functioning of e.g. A particular judge who is considering a case is very involved with the office staff. It involves dealing with individual cases, accepting telephone interventions and giving them a run. I'd rather. And I think it would be socially more efficient for all workers who are well-prepared, qualified to focus on generals. It's not enough, we have a situation where certain actions are being replicated. I gave the example of the court. The Ombudsman is repeatedly motivated and encouraged to respond to various court cases. Well, you have to remember. that if there are any objections, there are persons in the structure of the court who are empowered, competent to consider such matters. In the case of judges, these are visiting agents for family matters of district courts. In the case of probation, they are district curators. And there's no reason for another office and another official to come into this. It's in a lot of different places. I gave this as an example. I'm summing up not to water down my speech. I am in favour of a child's rights spokesperson, who has such a shape and so many teams, dealing with general matters that will not be missed. Because despite the improvement of the situation that we are signaling, the material situation, despite the fact that the population of children in Poland has decreased, problems are not lacking and many new problems could be mentioned. That's what happened in the discussion. That have emerged and are worth reacting to. So that, given the efficiency of the Ombudsman's work, as if his constitutional location, I am strongly in favour of the Ombudsman dealing with generals What you've been doing and what I thank you for. And individual cases were social assistance issues, school counselors, school system, family organizations, children's organizations, hundreds of thousands of people, including parents who love children and who will do it well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u235	Thank you. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I will also start by expressing my appreciation to the Ombudsman for a comprehensive and comprehensive report, which I read with great interest as a lawyer. It could be said that in this report, as in the lens, all the important problems are reflected, especially the legal nature of the protection of the rights of the child to whom the Ombudsman is called. I wanted to thank you, in particular, for those things that were raised there, and which are solutions that life demands. This is, in particular, a matter of the need for the Ombudsman to regulate the prevention of alcohol abuse and psychotropic drugs by women in the hope of having a child. The indication that there are 9,000 cases a year when children are born suffering from serious diseases as a result of the use of these drugs by mothers is to me, to be honest, shocking. This is a huge number that points to a huge problem. It is regrettable that the measures taken by your Ombudsman to regulate this issue in the form of appropriate legislation of a criminal nature, which would be liable for the mother using such measures, have not yet been implemented. I hope that this will be realized. And I'm actually putting this on my shoulders as a task to accomplish, and I think we're gonna be doing it in the future. Similarly, I think it is also very valuable for your Ombudsman to point out the need to regulate matters relating to the representation of children who act as victims in criminal proceedings. Well, the current situation, which is that a child victimized by one parent is represented by another parent, does not provide proper protection for that child. Of course, practice varies. The courts have seen the lack of proper representation of the child, and it is often so that they appoint a probation officer who represents the child. This is the right practice, except that it is actually not very legal. Therefore, I consider the Ombudsman's request that this issue be settled very valuable and timely. I also appreciate the fact that the Ombudsman sees issues related to some kind of absurdity And it points out that, and sometimes it even goes into court proceedings, the absurdity of judicial actions or other judicial institutions. Well, I'll admit it's a shocking situation for me. If it weren't for the fact that the child's welfare was involved, it would be humorous. When the notary made the notarial contract... i.e. The mommy who went abroad to work for work made a notarial act in which she gave her aunt custody of two children. Well, to be honest, as a lawyer, I would never have thought that a notary could come up with such absurdity. So it's a very interesting reading. I would just like to add, from myself, those things that I think we would have to lean on, too. Perhaps you even leaned over them, but I admit that because this report is extensive, of course I did not have time to read it in full. It is about leaning on issues related to the situation of children placed in the course of proceedings, under the act on proceedings in juvenile cases, in youth educational centres. Because our regulation is so flawed that we have already lost one case before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Namely, the flaw is that the freedom of a child... After all, putting a child in such a nursing home is nothing but a deprivation of liberty and at the same time a deprivation of contact with his parents. So once, there's a limit to freedom here, and then there's a limit to the relationship between parents and children. And the issues of freedom and restrictions on these contacts should be strictly regulated. Unfortunately, our procedure allows it to be placed in such a facility for an unlimited period of time until the proceedings are concluded. I believe that we should take action to regulate this issue. Especially since Poland will soon lose the next case, the case of Krawczyk, which is already at the final stage of the proceedings before the Court. There, too, it was so absurd that the parents who applied to the court for help, because their son behaved wrongly, obtained this aid in such a way that first this kid was placed in such a facility, and then had very good results, got a testimony with distinction, and the parents wanted the court to deliver the child home and the court refused. And there was a situation when this child was beaten up by the real hooligans who were there, in this facility, which of course got away and has so far been hiding. And our courts in the majesty of the law and in order to show that judicial decisions should be respected and that such a kid should be Penalized in a specific way for fleeing the center, they insisted that he would not be released. And now the Court has to deal with it. And soon we will be branded again. So that these are matters that also require regulation. And, of course, that practice I mentioned. It is also widely stated by the Ombudsman in his report on the length of proceedings. Especially where it is not an object, as in some property proceedings, it is a man, and it is the weakest, or child, that should be quick. And the situations that you mention there are unacceptable, which sometimes would be, as I say, even humorous, if it weren't for the fact that this is about the child. E.g. The fact that the father is applying for a passport so that he can go abroad with the child on winter holidays, and the court is waiting for the term of these holidays to pass, and after this father changes his application to give him a passport, because he would like to go with the child not on winter holidays, but on summer holidays, he can't wait for the term of the ruling either. Well, these are some absurdities in the functioning of our justice system, which we often lean on and aim to heal this situation. So, in general, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for a very comprehensive report and a very wide range of things that are very important and which you have stressed, where, but in Poland, should be very appreciated. Because we are considered a nation that is a kind of cradle of children's rights. Well, it was thanks to Poland that the Convention on the Rights of the Child was passed. This impulse came out of Poland. And actually, the content of this convention is due. not someone else, but Poland. It's worth remembering, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u237	Thank you. Senator Augustine. There you go. [[Four minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u238	Even shorter. I was just about to raise one point, but there is no way to ignore what Mr Szymański said. If we were to follow your reasoning, Mr. Senator, we could also say that we all have many defenders in many institutions, in all cases, and yet the Ombudsman can go extra to the proceedings and defend us in cases. And it's good that it is. And the second argument I have in defending what is, is that I don't see the collisions you're talking about. I haven't heard of any complaint in this case. Mr. Spokesman, you came here with a beautiful symbolic gift. He's not here anymore. Irena Sendler's glasses. I understand the meaning of this gesture, because these are the glasses that put on their eyes so symbolically allow them to see their children with their problems and to shake their hand when it is necessary. We, Mr. Ombudsman, will stay with these glasses after your work. And we'd like to stay with those glasses so that, as Senator Szymański said, we can count among the children's rights advocates. Many of us You asked to be ambassadors to many of your campaigns. We'd like to say goodbye to you. We don't have any senate decorations, but... I think the senators will join this gesture of senators of the Civic Platform who prepared the Senate medal with dedication to say goodbye to your spokesman. Please, Mr. Spokesman, here to see us. And that's where I end my speech. Senators of the Platform who have taken such an initiative. I will ask all the senators who think it is worth thanking the Minister in this way. [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn hands out a medal to a child's advocate, senators of the Civic Platform club give flowers]] (Conversations in the O.R.)
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Spokesman, do you still wish to speak? [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: Yes.]] There you go. [[Can I still ad vocem?]] We're already discussing... The discussion is closed. Mr. Spokesman will still speak. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u240	I was gonna take the floor, but I got a little caught up in... Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! This is really the last time. Thank you very much. Thank you for all the words that flowed here towards the spokesperson, the words evaluating our work, our work. Ours, because I'm here today, as you can see, with my associates, as always. They are represented by directors of individual teams, departments, people who, apart from time and no matter how difficult, take their children's affairs into their own hands and help them every day. I'd like you to feel very clearly. And they told us about it tomorrow in our office for staff in teams. This atmosphere, what happened here today. I don't know what I've done without you. Without you, it wouldn't be possible. [[Applause]] Here is Director Beata Sobocińska representing the educational team, all of this educational department thank you. You are the director of Tchai-Trzcińska representing the social affairs team covering all health issues, administrative matters, social affairs, thank you. Director Ewelina Rzeplińska-Urbanowicz in a blessed state, does not drink... Thank you very much. This team has family cases, criminal cases. Thanks a lot. Director Agata Jasztal, who represents the team of international affairs and constitutional law, a person of great sensitivity Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Stadtmüller, communication department, social campaigns, actions to promote the rights of the child, thanks. Not yet, but maybe. And finally, the director of my office, Bartosz Sowieer, who, when I'm gone, represents where I need to be, takes... thanks. Today, too, we have a young man, a representative of the youth advisors of the Ombudsman, Matthew, who is very committed to his environment, because he is still a child in the light of the laws, although he will not be. Recently, on 1 June, we participated together in the debates of the Parliament of children and young people. Thanks, Matthew. At your hands, but it's thanks to all those young people who ask for, remind, and are kind of that direct voice. It's important to me. I wish that voice of yours could be heard, that voice, I repeat... If I hadn't heard it, I wouldn't have taken many initiatives. Yes, thank you very much. Everyone has expressed their opinion. Thank you for all your comments. We always write very carefully and humbly accept these comments, and the positive ones, and the ones suggesting that something else can be done better. As you know, we are a humble, servant office. We're doing the best we can to investigate children's matters. Is everything working out? No. This is how life is constructed. There's no superpower to make it work, but we're trying to make it work. I will not enter into any longer polemics, I would just like to refer to the concept that the senator, Mr. Senator, was talking about, who has a lot of experience, and I also draw from it. However, on this one point, I will allow myself to disagree for the second time. I hope there'll be a moment one day when the senator will let me explain. If there were no such specific, individual cases, there would not be many general speeches either. We wouldn't have seen these things. It's so expensive. From detail to general. We need to consider, analyze, take these cases. Most often I ask these institutions to act, only when I have a feeling that they have underestimated the child's problem. It happens because there's a man everywhere. You're aware of that, too. You want to make the best law possible; every time there's debate, there's debate, there's proposals that are made not to make life miserable, but to help. But whatever we do, we're just people. Whatever we do, I say, at the end of these regulations, there will be another man, a man who will implement them. If he does not have the competence, determination, empathy and understanding for the rights of the child, it may happen that he will not properly implement the provision. It can happen in court, it can happen in social services, and in school, and in local government. Everywhere. That's why there's such a guard. The children, once asked: 'Who is the spokesman for you?', said: 'He is one between a policeman and an angel.' It's a guard standing somewhere and reminding you that you mustn't break the rights of a child, that you have to pay particular attention to them. Sometimes you even have to act against the wrong rule. It happens, too. You have to have such inner courage. And sometimes you have to support someone like that... I've got people who say, well, this recipe is bad for the baby, if I keep it, I'm not gonna help that kid. Then I stand up for someone like that and say, "Don't follow, we'll do everything we can to change it, we'll take action so that there's no such dilemmas in the future, there's no such situation." The Ombudsman does not enter the house, but should be able to enter the institution, should be able to summon and mobilize it, to cheer, from the lowest to the highest level. If you don't feel that breath on the back of an institution that has real powers, in many situations... And yet we're talking about a particular child, Jasi or Margaret. In a global set, it's a percentage, but we're talking about Hansel or Gretel. And we have to help them. In situations where a child is hurt here and now, we need to be able to mobilize. Therefore, the Ombudsman needs this additional tooling. And I encourage you to strengthen that. Surely our image will be better and the child's welfare will be better protected when the child's rights spokesman can act, he will have the opportunity to do so. I encourage you and ask you to support my successor or successor in this regard as well. Thank you for all the kind words, for reminding me of those old days. I just realized now that we met on the train, Mr. Senator. [[I don't remember that anymore.]] Mr. Senator was the director of the regional social services team, and I was a modest activist from the city, who once received the title of the Children's Dream Capital. In fact, many hours we managed to talk about the route from Krakow to Wrocław. Thank you very much, thank you for this beautiful distinction. It's a beautiful souvenir, which I'm sure will be accepted with due respect. I wish you all the best to do only good for these youngest and older citizens, and I wish you good cooperation with the Ombudsman's Office for Children's Rights for the future, as you have noticed. I leave in the best condition possible, with the best people who really have children in their heart, in their head, have great competence for this. I thank Georgios very much for taking the time to be here today because he wanted to see what it was like to report to a spokesman in Poland. Georgios tomorrow at the conference on Iren Sendler tomorrow is such a central conference within the framework of the Year of Irena Sendler, which I requested in the Seym He will have his speech, he will talk about how Irena Sendlerova exists today in the consciousness of the world, how her work, her actions, the struggle for good is today to be used and how important the reference is, not only with us. It's worth remembering that, too. If any of your senators could, would like to, there was a possibility, we'd like to invite you. Tomorrow at 11.00 at the Academy of Special Pedagogicals we start a big project, there will be many social workers, there will be many representatives of the world of education, science, who will come from all over Poland, not only to remind, but also to establish. Irena Sendler said, if you don't know what to do, do good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u241	I thank the Ombudsman very much for submitting information from his activities for 2017, and I would like to add to these thanks to you and to your team's hands, thanks to the Senators of the Civic Platform. Thank you for this initiative. Thank you very much again, Mr. Ombudsman. I state that the Senate has read about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, after the reopening of the session, we will proceed with the examination of point six, namely the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income earned by individuals. We will then begin to listen to information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017. I'm about to announce a recess, and now I'm going to ask Senator Secretary to present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u242	Thank you very much. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on the amendment of the Law will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-06-senat-61-1.u243	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you. Good night. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 54]]
