ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u1	I open the 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] So, what, an adjournment? [[Voice from the room: Well, yeah...]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I've started and finished immediately, but we have 20 minutes to print the right materials. I'm declaring a recess for an hour... [[Room voice: 15.15.]] [[Voice from the room: until 4:00 p.m.]] [[Voice from the room: Until 15.20, so that everything will be all right by now.]] ...until 15.20. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 02 to 15 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. I inform you that the Sejm at its sixty-seventh meeting on 20 July 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act on the amendment of the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to workers in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds; to the Act on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Waste; to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Plant Protection and certain other laws; to the Law on the amendment of the Law on Waste and Certain Other Laws; to the Law on Higher Education and Science; to the Law on State Aid for Building Expenditure in the first years of the lease of the apartment. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 60th first meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 28 June 2018, the Minister of Justice informed the Senate about the processing of telecommunications, postal and internet data and the results of the audits carried out in 2017. It is contained in print No 887. I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 18 July 2018 took note of the information. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 1 to 7 and items 9 to 21 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Please, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I wanted to ask you what this proposal you have made at the moment is about what was agreed at the Seniors Convention, because at the Seniors Convention we had some arrangements that I believe should be implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u3	But these are the arrangements that were made... Mr. Senator, you listened to my voice, right? I'll read it from the beginning, Mr. Senator. You will be kind to go to your place where the agenda is, and to read the agenda, and then take the floor if you don't like something, because right now I don't know what the senator doesn't like. [[That's why I asked...]] Well, yes, but you were, Mr. Senator, at the Seniors Convention, so you know perfectly well what was the order of the Seniors Convention meeting. You now have the agenda for the 60th session. I'll read this phrase from the beginning: order has been placed on the benches... Each of us also has... This is a blue print, blue, Mr. Senator, the front page is blue. I propose that items 1 to 7 and items 9 to 21 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Was that the senator's vote of objection or... [[It was a question...]] But, Senator, it's late. [[It was a question...]] You're welcome, Senator... I'll say it again. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no... It is, isn't it? You're welcome, Senator First... [[Mr. Senator Klich.]] You're resigning? Because you were the first. [[Yeah, I was...]] But you're resigning? [[No, I don't want to...]] Well, yes or no? [[No.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Isn't it?]] Do you wish to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the possibility of examining the first point: consent to a national referendum by the President of the Republic of Poland, I request that the discussion begin when representatives of the State Election Commission and the Government of the Republic of Poland will be present in the Chamber. As far as the State Election Commission is concerned, there is no need to explain anything to the High House, as the State Election Commission is the organiser of the referendum and it has reported Okay, I'll give you a heads-up. Some of your doubts. As for the presence of representatives of the government, which may surprise you, it is so that the referendum is due to take place within a period close to the deadline managed by the President of the Council of Ministers of the elections to local government. Please take this polite proposal into account, Mr. Marshal. The point is, the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u5	Yes, but I, Mr. Senator, have asked a completely different question, and you have a completely different question. I understand that you do not object to my proposal to consider points one to seven and points nine to twenty-six... [[No, I'm not.]] ...even though the committee's reports on these matters were submitted at a later date? You don't object? [[No.]] Thank you. [[I'm just making an accompanying offer...]] That's not necessary... [[...which, in my opinion, concerns what lies in the duties of your marshal.]] Mr. Senator, I'm gonna take your voice away from you because you spoke at the wrong time, and it's not the first time. You shouldn't be speaking right now. If I don't hear... Are you Senator... How would you like to report? [[No, thank you. Thank you for the moment.]] Senator Borusewicz? In what mode? [[Thank you.]] Because I've seen the senator's hands raised. So it's not... [[I'm resigning right now...]] Thank you. There were no votes against. [[Voices from the room: There wasn't.]] It wasn't. From this side of the room Wasn't there? [[Voice from the room: There wasn't one either.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I suggest you complete the agenda. Please listen now. Points: Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection and considering this item as item 8 of the agenda, after the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health; the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of control activities in the field of certain agricultural markets and consider this item as item 13 of the agenda, following the Act amending the Local Development Act; the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws and consider it as a point on the 25th agenda, following the Act amending certain laws to reduce social security contributions; the Act amending the Law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change On the other hand, in order to take account of Ecuador's accession to the Agreement of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Colombia and Peru, on the other hand, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. After the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia; consent to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki - and consider this item as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Please, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is obvious, as at the Senior Convention meeting, opposition from our side, from opposition to point two, i.e. a judicial act. This is a law that makes it possible for the independence of the Polish judiciary to be abolished forever, to adopt this law, to vote positively in order to deprive the courts of independence and the judges of independence for a long time. We're very worried about this rate more than the express rate, that's the rate of pendolino. In which this law passed through the Sejm. We are very concerned about this contempt for the Sejm, which was manifested both during committee meetings and later in plenary. We believe that the Senate is a House in which such a situation cannot happen again, and this cannot happen. Each of us, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, made a vow, and in this vow we vowed to uphold the Constitution, we vowed to the Constitution. We are therefore obliged to behave in accordance with the provisions of the Polish Constitution. This law is nailed down by an independent justice system in Poland. Just as the prosecutor's office, which was independent, was no longer independent, as was the Constitutional Court, which became the impostor of the Court, the same common courts and the National Courts... And now the Supreme Court is just about to become a sham of what the Constitution provides for. And that is why we call, we call on your marshal, we call on you to come to your senses, not to bring this law into question at the moment and to give yourself a chance to reflect, especially since the introduction of this law can add oil to the fire and cause a judgment of the European Court of Justice which is detrimental to Poles and Poland. And it will be that PiS is guilty, and the consequences will be borne by Poles and Poles. I therefore request that this law should not be included on the agenda of this Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u7	Thank you very much. I understand that this is the vote of opposition to supplementing the agenda with a point: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda. Are there any other votes against the other proposals previously put forward? No. Mr. Senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to make a formal request on the occasion of these amendments that the point you proposed as second point, namely the law on the general court system, should be the first point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's already outrageous, really.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's just unbelievable.]] [[Voice from the room: The motion has been made, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u9	But wait a minute. Wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] But, Senator, we have listened to your request and no one behaved that way. I'd really like to ask you to keep your culture, because this room is expecting it. You're welcome, Senator Klich. In what mode? [[In the manner of referring to this proposal by Senator Martynowski.]] But I am not putting this motion to the vote right now because I do not accept this proposal from the senator. We are now completing the agenda, and we are not setting the order. In the next stage, the senator will be kind if you'd like to make such a request. Absolutely not right now. At the moment, we are supplementing the agenda with the items presented. As I understand it, there is a voice of opposition to the Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of common courts and other laws. There are no voices of opposition to other laws. Yes? This vote of opposition will now be voted out. Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of universal courts and certain other laws - and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda? Please. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 88 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the above-mentioned proposals and the contested proposal to supplement the agenda on the Law amending the Law on the General Courts and certain other laws have been adopted. This point will be the second point. I suggest now it's about order. A change in the order of consideration of point six, i.e. the Act amending the Law on the Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality and the Act on National Tax Administration. I propose to consider this item as item 3 of the agenda, after the point on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Martynowski wishes to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u10	Well, I'm sorry that I filed that application in the wrong place. I'm replaying it. I shall make a formal application in accordance with Article. Paragraph 48 (8) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure for amending the agenda and for the second point, i.e. the law on the system of common courts, to be considered as the first point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u11	As point one... So that the law on the amendment of the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws would be considered first, right? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Against or for? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, the law on the system of common courts was indicated this morning as the 15th point. Then, around 1:00 p.m., we learned at the Senior Convention meeting that it would be the second point, and now Senator Martynowski is speeding up significantly, and he wants it to be the first point. I object. This isn't some line that goes uphill first, then slides down. This is a very serious legislative change. She deals with the Supreme Court, a prosecutor's office, who receives enormous powers, can be involved in any case, including economic and civil matters. Of course, you can vote on changes of order in the same way as today, but I would like to say that this does not count on the dignity of the House. However, on the basis of information, the senators shall, on the basis of written information which they receive before the meeting and then at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, also establish their timetable. It is not that we have come at the moment and we will proceed not to point one, a referendum on which the Senators of PiS have not agreed on their position, but we will proceed as point one of the law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. At least let us bring the materials here to this point, because this prevents... Mr. Senator Martynowski, this prevents the work of senators, and not only those from the Platform Club, but also from your club, from PiS. Therefore, I repeat: I object to this change. There was no situation that would justify such a violent change. The referendum is held once every few times... The referendum in this senate mode is held once per term, once every several terms of office, and therefore this point, I think, is more important from the point of view of the system. Once again, this change, this violent change, is preventing us from working normally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u13	Good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. But, Mr. Marshal, it is the High House that has passed... always passed, passed, and will make the agenda. That's his competence, that's his right. It's in accordance with the rules. I understand I will now put to the vote the motion of Senator Martynowski. I will not put your Marshal's request for a recess to the vote because the motion was enigmatic, and also later in the next... [[I didn't file a request for a break, I just filed an objection to changing this point.]] Yes, but in your speech you also spoke about the time needed to bring notes, questions, etc. For the time being, we are voting on Senator Martynowski's request, who made a formal request that the point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of universal courts and certain other laws be not the second, but the first item on the agenda. Who's in favour of Senator Martynowski's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] [[He came through smooth.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen... [[Senator Rulewski reporting.]] In what mode? [[About the formal issue.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] Well, formal mode, but... [[Art 34...]] What's that? [[Resignation of a mandate.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm always... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[This is the third time I've asked...]] I see there's a senator in trouble... [[Who's in trouble, I'm sorry?]] With this tablet. [[Uh-huh. There you go.]] I make a formal request in connection with the confusion caused by Senator Martynowski, the request that the work on the first item in the revised version of the agenda should be carried out in the presence of the first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice and other persons possibly interested in this law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, I'm not done. [[This is not a motion, Senator.]] Wait a minute, I have a formal motion. You're interrupting me, and that's why I'm not finished. I'm asking you to order a recess. [[Until we get there...]] Until these people arrived. [[You're filing for a recess?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u15	Formal motion for a recess. [[Until we get there...]] I understand the reason. Is the motion against it? [[When's the break?]] [[There isn't.]] Thank you very much. Senator Martynowski raises his hand. [[I'm filing a counterclaim.]] You haven't defined... Oh, I see. Please, Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u16	I've already said it. Shortly: I'm filing a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u17	Good. Who's in favour of the motion... We are voting on Senator Jan Rulewski's motion. The proposal concerns an adjournment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I would have a slightly similar motion to Senator Rulewski's, but otherwise justified. It is quite common practice in the Senate that there are no Members running the bill. How did I find out...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u19	Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry... [[But...]] I'm so sorry to interrupt you so impeccably. I made a mistake because I shouldn't have accepted Senator Rulewski's request because it wasn't about the agenda. We're still in the middle of the agenda. Do you wish to speak on the agenda? [[I'd like to...]] You're welcome, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u20	I'll tell you what. I would like to propose that we postpone the examination of the rule of law of the general courts until a Member arrives in the Chamber... [[And the minister.]] ...who led this bill in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u21	This is a request for a recess, an application identical to that application. [[That's what Senator Rulewski reported.]] Mr. Senator, you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u22	I am, of course, filing a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u23	Good. We are voting on Senator Libicki's motion for a break. You know... We really should not vote on this right now because it does not concern the agenda. Really, ladies and gentlemen. I ask for a little more patience and for you to listen to what the vote is about. I do not accept this proposal because this proposal should not be submitted at the moment. We're setting an agenda for our deliberations. It's 40 points. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u24	Mr. Marshal, you are calling for patience, and I would like to appeal to you to deal with matters of such importance, in a completely different atmosphere, in an atmosphere other than that of the Sejm. And since the marshal has not accepted for urgent consideration, That's your right, sir. The draft resolution, which we as Senators of the Civic Platform have tabled today to the Marshal's staff, I would like to make a formal request to adjourn until this draft resolution has been considered. You have, of course, an arithmetical majority in both chambers of our Parliament, and you use it for various purposes. In my opinion, this particular purpose is wrong. You have bad intentions because your intention is not to repair the judiciary, but to eliminate its independence. And that is why, in this resolution, which we have submitted to the State, we call for common forces to bring about changes which will prevent the European Court of Justice from drawing consequences for Poland, and therefore for our citizens, in a situation where the perpetrator of all misfortune in Poland is Law and Justice. I therefore ask that this resolution be included on the agenda... [[That's not gonna happen, Senator.]] ...the first point was considered after consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u25	Mr. Senator, I'm taking your vote back. This is not a formal, legal, regulatory possibility. As an experienced senator, you should know that. This is not possible because this resolution you have tabled has not yet had a first reading. We can only issue a resolution when we have a report, and you only have a draft resolution, so that's impossible. From a legal point of view, I cannot vote on a formal proposal which does not meet the basic legal requirements. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I've already taken your voice away. [[The Senate Committee...]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u26	The Senate committee was discussing yesterday's draft law... [[But the resolutions...]] ...at 9:00 p.m., the moment we only had seym print. There was no comparative material, there was no opinion from the Legal Office What does that mean? [[Mr. Senator, this is...]] In a case as important as a court order, there may not be basic documents, and you deny us the right to... [[Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice back because...]] ...to bend over a resolution that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u27	I'm taking your vote back because we've already voted it out. This is the second time we can't vote on the same thing, and you should know that very well. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda that has already been presented and adopted in part? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the sixty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that, after considering the first item of the agenda on the Law on the System of General Courts, in the absence of legislative proposals, the vote will take place immediately after considering this item. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. I would like to inform you that, after considering item 2 of the agenda: consent to the ruling by the President of the Republic of Poland of the national referendum, a half-hour break will be announced and the vote on this item will take place after the break. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, i.e. On Wednesday, July 25th, we will resume the session at 10 a.m. On Thursday, 26 July, we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m. from the examination of the point concerning the second reading of the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and the two-century existence of his work, the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw. Immediately after considering this point, we will proceed to the vote. If there are any legislative proposals, there will be a break and we will vote after the break. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We will proceed on Thursday after 2 p.m. to consider a point on information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations. I inform you senators that after the preparation of the report by the competent Senate committees, the agenda may be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that this meeting is very important. It can be extended by an additional day, that's Tuesday, July 31. [[I think God has forsaken you.]] We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 932, and the report of the Commission In print No 932 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which has examined the law on amending the law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. This presentation, High Senate, is updating a few normative acts. Among them are: the Act of May 12th... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, I can't hear you.]] I'd ask you to keep your conversation quiet. [[But please move the counter a little bit up.]] You can't get any higher. You can't get any higher. [[Oh, you can't.]] [[A carpenter needs...]] [[Okay, well, a little closer to the microphone, then you'll hear better. I don't know if there's any way to strengthen the voice...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Among them are: the Act on the National Judicial Council... [[Oh, that's good.]] ...and the Supreme Court Act. Under the amendment of these laws, solutions are to be introduced to improve the outcome of the competitions which concern the appointment of the Supreme Court. This objective will be achieved in particular by authorising the teams designated within the National Judicial Council to draw up lists of recommended candidates, even if individual candidates do not submit documents which would certify professional experience or scientific achievements. An exception will also be established for obtaining the validity of the KRS resolution. The challenge of such a resolution by certain candidates participating in the competition will not prevent the appointment of a judge to whom a positive decision has taken place on the presentation to the President of a request for appointment to serve as a judge of the Supreme Court. In addition, the Act provides the Supreme Administrative Court with a time limit of 14 days for the examination of an appeal against the resolution of the National Judicial Board adopted in the nomination proceedings for the position of Supreme Court Judge. The Supreme Court Act will modify the numerical threshold for the seat of judges of the Supreme Court, on which the obligation to elect and present to the President of the Republic of Poland 5 candidates for the position of the first President of the Supreme Court is subject to an overrun. Art. The 117th Supreme Court Act regulates the issue of foreign nationality by judges and court assistants who were appointed before 3 April 2018. Editorial units will be added, the idea of which is to relax the rigour of the termination of the service relationship in the event of an unsuccessful expiry of the time limit for the waiver of non-Polish citizenship. By 3 October 2018, the judge or judicial assessor shall be able to apply to the National Judicial Council for further judgment, despite the possession of a foreign nationality. The National Judicial Council will take a decision in this regard taking into account the circumstances relating to the acquisition of citizenship and the consequences resulting from its resignation. The amendment also refers to the Law on the System of General Courts, as well as to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. These amending provisions are mainly sequencing, and are intended to contribute to the smooth functioning and improvement of the organisation of prosecutorial units. As regards solutions in the Law on the System of General Courts, it follows inter alia. the exclusion from the scope of judicial assesors of all cases settled in the family and underage departments; the flexibility of the rules on the establishment of divisions in regional courts and district courts, the determination that the function of chairmen in the perpetual books departments and in the economic departments of the Register of Laws or the National Court Register is entrusted to referees; the granting of powers to the governors of regional courts to entrust the functions of heads of departments and the establishment of the division of activities in those courts; the abolition of the quorum requirement for the adoption of resolutions by the general assembly of judges of appeals, the general assembly of judges of the district or the meeting of judges of the court concerned; the abolition of the prohibition on the transfer of profits obtained by a judge from shares held by him or shares in commercial companies for public purposes or to a separate bank account; the extension from 30 to 60 days of the active service period on which it is conditional on the recognition that the judge has obtained the right to a new period of benefit due to the disease; the adoption of the principle that prosecutors are assigned to successive cases according to the alphabetical list; the increase of compensation granted to the jurors for the exercise of duties in general courts and the establishment of the contract to cover of the costs of the court. As regards the law of the prosecutor's office, the law states that prosecutors participate on the rights of a party or a participant in proceedings conducted by public authorities and courts and tribunals; it also extends the powers and procedural legitimacy of prosecutors acting in the military departments of the district prosecutors and in the military departments of the district prosecutors. The most important changes introduced in the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office are certainly a new supplementary application, that is, an application addressed to judicial assistants and prosecutors, as well as to referenda. The training in this mode will be open to referenda to the court, assistants and assistants of prosecutors, and assistants of judges who are primarily two years of experience. The call for an application will take place by way of a competition. This application will last for 18 months and will cover both weekend activities and 1 day per week practice. Supplementary application applicants will not receive support in the form of a scholarship. High Izbo, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the National Judicial Council were present at the committee meeting. The Legislative Office has made several reservations about the bill. The opposition senators present in the Chamber took the floor, among others. Senators Klich, Rulewski, Pociej, Zientarski, Napieralski, Senator Sztark. Several applications were submitted, including: the adjournment of the committee's sitting. Senator Rulewski has tabled amendments to the bill. Senator Pociej, in turn, took over the proposals for amendments to the Legislative Bureau. Senator Shark and Senator Klich filed a motion to reject the bill. There was a brief discussion, which rather referred to the general assessment of the law. On the part of the opposition senators, this was a critical assessment. There was also a motion to adopt a law without amendments. This motion was put to the vote and adopted by 5 votes in favour, 3 against. The High Commission therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How I wish I could say, Dear Applicants... Unfortunately, according to the existing tradition, there is no one who represents the applicants. We cannot ask them questions, apparently they do not want to take the pleasure of presenting the views contained in the submission. I can presume that they don't identify very much with this project or want to glow with their eyes for this project. High Izbo, we continue again in July I don't think it's going to be too much to say about it, the infamous tradition: we put ourselves in a framework to be ashamed of, the justice system, and this time we deprive the Supreme Court of the last qualities of independence. I would like to read to the senators some of the two opinions on this bill that have come. An opinion that came from the Supreme Court. Before proceeding with a detailed analysis of the various legislative proposals contained in this proposal, it is regrettable that they are an example of an extremely instrumental use of the right to achieve ad hoc policy objectives. This way of lawmaking is clearly in contradiction with the idea of the rule of law, in line with the concept of the rule of law. According to the literature of the subject, the difference is that in the rule of law, the law acts as a means of preventing abuse of power, and in a system known as the rule of law, it becomes a tool of oppression used with reference to the principle of legalism. This argument is also confirmed by the fact that the changes in laws governing the functioning of constitutional authorities are extremely important from a systemic point of view trying to hide themselves It's an opinion. still at the level of the Sejm, the name changed later Even in the title of the project, listing simply the law on the prosecutor's office. And a passage from the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. The opinion contains a number of solutions that raise doubts, among others. on the constitutionality of the Constitution. It deprives candidates for the Supreme Court of Justice of the right to appeal effectively against the decision of the National Judicial Council (it violates Article. 60 in conjunction with Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution and Article. 13 ctn. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 ECHR), allows the selection of a candidate for the office of judge of the Supreme Court despite the lack of the required documentation confirming his professional achievements, weakens the local government and tries to allow the election of the new First President of the Supreme Court two years before the end of the current term of office of the First President. The fact that the National Judicial Council has not delivered an opinion on the subject of this Act is also evidence of non-compliance with the Constitution. The Law of 20 July 2018 is an example of legal instruments for the purpose of achieving political objectives which are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, inter alia. with the principle of the non-removalability of judges and the principle of the integrity and efficiency of public institutions expressed in the preamble. The law instrumentally created for political purposes does not have the right of authority. On the other hand, the procedure for adopting the draft opinion is hasty and without debate. It undermines trust in the law that is being created. At the same time, the Act in question does not contain any solutions that would respond to the most important problems of the functioning of the justice system. This is another staff bill, which this time leads to a pathological situation. According to the political objectives (accelerating the illegal exchange of judges in the Supreme Court) it creates mechanisms that will allow the selection of not necessarily the best candidates for judges of the most important court in Poland. The bill did not contain any assessment of the impact of the regulation, apart from the general statement that it had positive social consequences. High Izbo, in this bill have been... all the sins we've been talking about for a long time in this bill have been raised to the highest power. Well, for a long time, on behalf of the designers. In fact, none of them ever once came to this room, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, on which this dubious privilege of defending Members' ideas fell, argued that here you are proposing a positive change, which is to give something to the public and citizens: speeding up procedures, the right to a quick, fair trial. You have also talked about such a human sense of justice and that your actions are actions aimed at the well-being of an ordinary citizen. But in this introduction and in all the previous ones, there is not a gram, not a single word about the fact that something can be done sooner, better or fairer. It is simply once again uncoordinated actions that do not take into account how further changes will work in the future. Here it suddenly turned out that, in previous submissions, Members, the ruling majority, people who are dealing with the justice system, as usual, did not see anything. Turns out And at the committee meeting with disarming honesty, the Minister spoke about it. That the glazeers realized that by using the existing law... It means that someone can use this right against what the ministry likes and that it needs to be changed, because the fork someone will appeal to the KRS decision. We wouldn't have had time to fill the staff shortages in the Supreme Court. Well, that's two questions. First, who's gotten 30 vacancies for three years? And thanks to the last bill, they've led to the fact that there are 55 vacancies. How can you derail the best court in Poland, which had the best results, and slow down almost twice what you are fighting for? Because it was supposed to be faster and better, and after 3 years it's twice as slow. How's it look? What's the ratio legis? What will help the citizen that, instead of 110 judges who are needed to recommend candidates for the first Supreme Court president, there will be 80 of them? And again he comes here with invaluable help the honesty of the Minister, who said at the committee meeting: because it is faster to complete 80 than 110. It's true. I'd like one of you to explain to me how you helped a citizen. How much faster does he get his rights? Besides, some professionals say that Once again in this pursuit of a quick solution, on the knee Unfortunately, there will be 46 in the Supreme Court, those who have spoken in a historic and important resolution that the President, the first President of the Supreme Court, is still president until the end of his term of office, as the Constitution says. Then I would like to know from the Minister what will happen if these 46 do not appear at the assembly. 'Cause it turns out you can, even with the Stakhanov job, fill up only 76. All I'm saying is that we don't have to see each other again during the summer, because you guys have done something wrong. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We have repeatedly said that if everything is focused solely on taking over the institution, it must be to the detriment of the institution. And here you go, it turns out that you can twice reduce certain requirements that you want to meet when it comes to your resume, a candidate for Supreme Court judge. With one stroke of the pen, you can halve all of this by halving the requirements of experience, reliability and verification of this candidate. Why? Of course, it's just that... Well, it's not done to get better judges there, it's to get a bigger group to encourage them to come. And tell me, how is it that we're about 10% short? judges in common courts, and here we are told slogans about how we are wonderfully helping citizens? Then answer me: why the last three years these 10% Are the positions unattended? I'll answer, we're waiting for our own. It's horrible, it's a terrible idea. Nine judges of the Supreme Court who have been given a positive opinion... Well, some people wait a year and a half. This is the care, this idea of healing, acceleration and expediency, or the idea of getting yours, because they weren't theirs... These are professors with undisputed achievements, smart people and people with different ideas. It's a bill... all these laws, all these changes were the destruction of the justice system. But this law no longer retains even the smallest appearances, in any way is a veil intended to cover that it is simply a leap on the institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u31	Thank you, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Ombudsperson! Hello and welcome the unexpected presence of the Minister, that he has mobilized and fulfilled my request, not your marshal, and have come to this meeting... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Also... [[You're welcome, Mr. Senator. Really, I'm the one sending the invitations, not you.]] Then why did you protest my motion? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I welcome also colleagues from the opposition with gratitude, actually a watch from the time when justice, when the rule of law and self-government became the cornerstone of the Republic in which we are now functioning. [[And the Round Table.]] It's impossible to hide, but the blind doesn't notice that three years after the so-called rule. The right-wing coalition, and in particular the reform of justice, maybe even more broadly: reforming the rule of law is worse than at the beginning of this reform. The level of conflict is rising. And not only because we are fighting disputes and polemics here, because in fact the dispute about the shape of the reform is not a dispute between the PiS and the Platform. The parties are those who exercise this justice system today, and those whom we hear here today. But it's not just that. Today, in these days, the 28 government offices of the European Union are crystallizing the position they will soon take in Brussels in view of Poland's recognition as a country, the only country in the history of EU membership that violates the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. Let's be ashamed, however we look at it, who's sitting on the side of this room. The effects of this reform have already been mentioned by Senator Pociej. Instead of completing, we have inquisition processes for decompleting warehouses. Minister Piebiak, the young minister, considered that the entire judicial corps and other legal environments supporting it, including the university, were responsible for this situation and that purely mathematical decisions should be made to reduce the compositions, to exchange judges. Meanwhile, if you believe that these 10,000 judges, several thousand prosecutors and even more legal counsel are boycotting... Then why don't you change them completely? I'm sure Minister Ziobro has prepared a ministerial landing for the Supreme Court. After all, these 200 judges and nearly 400 lawyers working in the Ministry can easily be tempted into financial bait. In any case, I consider this law to be a report to the public, including foreign opinion, that in Poland around the rule of law things are going wrong. Last year they were coming, just as they were coming, although on a reduced scale, shouting Senator, you still can! I take this call very seriously, this request. You didn't understand her last year, didn't understand that citizens, not the parties, asked him directly to comply with the constitution. It seemed that it was the time and place of the President's law firm To include even a truce in these activities. There's no truce, no peace at all. We're at war. But I deeply accept this appeal, Senator, you still can! I've made a motion for a minority to do so. I am speaking in a simplified manner. In order to meet the expectations of the government, the PiS government, the possibility of a functioning Supreme Court at least until the government has recovered in its expectations and figures, the current court can function until 2020. I therefore believe, in accordance with the Constitution, that, first of all, the first President of the Supreme Court should hold his term of office until the end. It's only two years. There are voices here, there is discussion and there is a dispute, a serious dispute over whether the term of office is interrupted. A different provision of the Constitution is given as a solution, which defines the retirement age by the law. But there's a dispute. Well, if there's a dispute, Dear Government, then the method isn't to close another mouth, to challenge the justice institutions. If there's a dispute, then, High Government... On mining matters, perhaps not Mr Piebiak, but other ministers and Members immediately found money and solutions. They did not say that mines had to be emptied of miners and that miners were boycotting the Polish state. It is simply within the framework of the constitution, which includes an obligation or a call for dialogue and cooperation between the authorities, that these and other problems have been solved. I'm saying that these problems will have even more other crews, and they'll have all the crews. There is another issue here which I particularly recommend to the senators on the right, although not only. In fact, we should all be concerned with the best justice system, even though many of us... Not many, maybe, but some of us are facing Tamida. With regard to Senator Rooster, a colleague of the Solidarity, it is even a threat that he will be brought to justice. Others In civil matters... Some say that the Court of State will revive its activities. And that is why our common interest, our civil interest and our interests here in this Chamber is that the reform will lead to the modernisation of the court, to give it a different face, but not the one you propose, which is of an inquisition nature and the nature of the attack on the good of self-government in this supreme court. The proposal is therefore as follows. The first President shall continue his term of office until 2020. The president's decisions are annulled because they're unconstitutional. There may be a reservation that this is an act of law backwards, but, after all, the Constitutional Tribunal, which examines and has the right to examine all laws, if proposals are made, also decides on the law backwards if the law is non-constitutional. So that here I do not see any conflict with the fact that the President has made unwise decisions. There is, of course, the matter of judges who, because of these actions of the government, which, as I recall, have eliminated more than half of the squad, feel offended and hurt in their dignity, because they consider that all the evidence is in favour of this. That they are people who have raised the justice system to the highest moral and substantive level. It seems to me that here's the appeal mode that these judges are directing or maybe... would be the way to repair this defective bill, that and the previous defective bill. That's what I'm proposing, Mr. Marshal. I say that in Poland at the present time there is still room for reflection, for this conflict to be resolved and, above all, to indicate the future. Because the essence of this conflict isn't just what was... That's what you're talking about: Judge Iwulski... yes, it's all true. But some say that the past is as important as the future, but the future is even more important because it will last longer. And this understanding of this matter is addressed to the Senators of the PiS and the State of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u33	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Libicki has come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u34	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Well, I'd like to ask... We've been in this term one time, I'd say five... [[Excuse me, which rapporteur is this question?]] Senator Ambrosik. [[Good.]] Well, we, for one time in this term of office, perhaps the fifth, are debating a law on the system of common courts. I would like to ask why we have not made all these changes that we are now making, for example. That's when we first or second, or third time we discussed the bill. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? When the Law and Justice were going to elections, did it present to citizens some concept of the functioning of common courts in Poland, or are we dealing with a completely ad hoc action, dictated not by the concept of their functioning, but by some current causes? I would very much ask you to clarify this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u35	The next question you ask is Senator Fedorovich. There you go. We'll be three...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... I'm here to see the Senator... I mean, was there an extended debate on the amendments of the Legislative Bureau that are fundamental. You're gonna answer that question right now... In your report, you said... But please tell me: has anyone given any thought to the fact that it may turn out that the failure to make these amendments will result in another amendment? Because we've had a few examples here. And by the way, second question. Was it said during the committee's deliberations that the politicisation of courts, which is as if the result of this process we are working on, could result in a complete loss of citizens' confidence in the Polish judiciary? I'll give you an example of a senator who's in the middle of a trial and an investigation. Well, I'd rather have that friend of mine. He wasn't on my team, he was sure the court wouldn't be political, it would be an independent court. [[Mr. Senator, a question, please.]] Well, there was a question, and now he's eating a little... [[One minute and...]] Thank you very much. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u37	We'll ask you to ask Senator Rybicki for a question. There you go. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the minority rapporteur, Senator Pociej...]] Uh-huh. Well, maybe now we can ask Senator Ambrosik to answer the questions, and Mr. Senator... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! About the first line... Senator Libicki asked if the government had announced a reform of the justice system. Yes, they did. Were specific statutory provisions announced? I don't recall that. But there was an announced reform of the judiciary, the law on the system of universal courts, the Supreme Court. These changes were generally expected by citizens. I think we all have experience from our parliamentary and senatorial offices in terms of the fact that the number of interventions or requests made by citizens is precisely the case for the judiciary. As far as the next amendment is concerned, I think it is the answer to some actions which unfortunately prevent this reform from being carried out to the end, i.e. the introduction of changes that would serve ordinary citizens. Now I answer Senator Fedorovich's question as to whether there was an extended debate on the concerns of our office. Everyone had the right to ask questions about the objections raised by the office and brought them up to 5 or 6. So that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u39	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Rybicki a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u40	The question to Senator Pociej as rapporteur for the minority. Mr. Senator, at the committee meeting, I would also like to know your personal view. The question raised was that, in quotation marks, the ratio legis of the law that has been passed today is to a large extent about speeding up the procedure for the election of the new President of the Supreme Court, breaking the article. 183 of the Constitution, in which it defines, in accordance with law, the term of office of the first President currently serving as a 6-year term? Are these provisions that we are adopting, or was there such a discussion, to speed up the procedure for the election of the first Supreme Court judge? What possible choice of new or deputy, so-called. The understudy of the first President of the Supreme Court would have consequences in legal transactions and in the assessment of international institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u41	I'll ask if there are any more questions for Senator Pociej. There's no... Do you have Senator Komarnicki? There you go. [[Me?]] Yeah, yeah. [[And me.]] You're welcome. Mr. Senator Komarnicki and Mr. Senator Libicki. We're gonna group...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej because I believe that I will get a slightly different answer from the Senator rapporteur, because I am dealing with an experienced lawyer. Senator, what is this bill supposed to improve according to your experience and according to the applicants? That's the first question. And the other. What did the dialogue with the European Commission look like in your opinion? I know that you are often there. On the laws on the judiciary? That question is the clou case today. And a third. According to the applicant and, of course, according to your experience, does this law violate this sanctity, or division of power? And the fourth question: was the bill analyzed, discussed primarily with the judicial community?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u43	If Senator Libicki has one question, please... [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u44	That is, in part, the same question I asked the Senator Major, Senator Ambrozik. It seems to me that if the ruling majority now had a coherent vision of a change in the justice system, it would just be one comprehensive act. Today, for the fifth time, we are discussing the Law on the System of Universal Courts, and it seems to me that this is some kind of response completely ad hoc and yet in some chaos. I'd like Senator Pociej to answer my question as an experienced lawyer, a well-known lawyer, and that's what my question is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u45	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rybicki's question. Yes, it has been mentioned, even several times, about the term of office of the first President, about the unconstitutionality of the end of this term of office. I have such an impression, Mr Senator, that as regards the changes concerning the Supreme Court, the person who decides to present further amendments by Members Somehow I have no doubt that it is not written by these Members. They've been lurking around somewhere. Well, I think that another reaction to the quite firm vote of the Supreme Court, such a very uniform voice, because it must be remembered that these resolutions concerning the unconstitutionality of the solutions, supporting the vote of the first Supreme Court President, who repeatedly spoke very strongly about the changes in the area of justice, these other changes... After all, we had a vote concerning the Constitutional Court, the National Council of Courts, etc., etc. It was a very negative, very strong voice. I think I'd call it a coup in the justice system. It was made during the recent amendments and, of course, here and the changes in the National Judicial Council, and the changes in the Supreme Court were really only for this purpose, because there is no sign of improvements or additions of money. Well, we've been dealing with this term... IPN got almost 30%. He's getting 10 times more than the Supreme Court anyway. Well, there wasn't a moment at all in any of these proposals to improve justice. Well, that vote of the Supreme Court and the president certainly couldn't have gone without an echo. But these last shifts, as usual, made on the knee... After all, we have repeatedly said that these changes are from day to day, without any opinion, and that they not only make our work difficult, but they make work difficult, as we have seen many times, also the parliamentary majority, which, I remind you, I have said many times about it. First of all, she protested in some laws against our amendments, defining them as nonsense, unnecessary, and then the next amendment gave us the exact amendments we were talking about. They came from the ruling side, although the governing party at the previous amendment said that our amendments were absolutely nothing It's not worth it and it's not acceptable at all. Therefore, it is clear that this is the pace of change even for the team that is trying to make these casts, and it is doing, in the justice system, too fast. And now again, I have the feeling that someone hasn't read anything before. I'm talking about previous actions and previous changes. And all of a sudden, if the president said... I mean, first of all, she didn't let herself be broken in the sense that she didn't come with a medical certificate that her spine was hurting, she didn't ask her to pick her again for the same term, she just put up a thesis supported unanimously by the Supreme Court, that her term, as enshrined in the Constitution, ends in two years. There's been a problem. It turned out that the previous amendment, once again, had nothing to do with the reality of the citizen. It's not enough. In addition, the vagrants of the justice system have led to this situation. I've been talking about this for three years. In which after the last changes there is no more than half of the Supreme Court. Suddenly it turned out that this imaginary, really, so right hand behind the left ear, the Disciplinary Chamber, the puriazum, is not filled at all, does not work. These aren't my words, but I'm quoting the next Vice-Ministers of Justice who, yeah, they were breaking their hands that they'd cut a bill that didn't work. Well, then you should've pushed your knee... [[Sick.]] [[A sick knee.]] ...and that's what's happening right now. It's just pushing really hard and against any appearances of this new situation and as soon as possible... It lowers requirements, it expands rapidly... giving completely young people, also without experience, the possibility of a five-story promotion in what they used to say was a certain way where the Supreme Court is crowned. Because, I remind you, the Supreme Court is a court of law. There, you need an exceptional knowledge of the law, you need to be extremely well prepared, you need immense experience in order to be able to judge the sentence of the lower courts. And that's something that people have really come to for years. I had this experience, a long, long time ago as a lawyer at the convention of a huge organization of lawyers I had an opportunity for an hour among, I don't know, 200 lawyers to listen... The United States Supreme Court Judge has come to see us. And I have to say that among those lawyers, each of whom made 10 or 100 million dollars each, well, eats all the brains and the smartest people in the palette, as she walked in... I still feel this breath of cold and quiet. That's the authority. [[How old was she? Probably 70.]] I'm going to answer Senator Fedorovich's erratic question: well, I'm sure it's more than sixty-five. [[The judges of the court...]] And... [[Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor...]] [[Excuse me.]] [[...in line, please sign up.]] [[I'm in your best interest, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I think that these changes that are happening will certainly not serve to maintain or build this authority. Because let's face it, this fight that isn't just... Because if this fight were... If we hadn't heard the citizens screaming outside now instead of being on vacation... There may be fewer of them, but they are. If we were the only ones talking here, arguing, we could say that our robe dazzling is perhaps artificial, perhaps unnecessary... But it makes us aware of the horrible division we've brought about. But here I'm sure it's 80.90% the fault is on the side of the governing coalition, that among others. In order to make it easier to push through society, there were campaigns denouncing judges, there were campaigns defaming, there were campaigns, where of real, real crimes... [[Mr. Senator, do you still answer questions?]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Excuse me. [[Proceed.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, anyway, by the end of this... unfortunately, we're going to end this argument with a completely trashed trust in the justice system. Senator Komarnicki's questions. What does that give a normal person? Well, I think the effect is negative. So far, if we've talked about having reservations... After all, these reservations were, of course. It is clear that if we have two disputes and one of them loses, and that is the case in court, because very rarely, unfortunately, which can be regretted... In our last term of office, we carried out mediation laws on the amicable settlement of disputes, unfortunately, it's just... the court is just passing judgment. And there is always someone who is dissatisfied, and half of those dissatisfied will say: the judgment is simply unjust, evil, etc. Only that so far there has been no political color in this dissatisfaction, but what happens, among others. what will happen because of this bill... it will be said that if we collide with a politician who could directly affect the fate of a judge, if we collide with a formation that directs them from day to day... I'm sorry, but there were people in the Supreme Court who had been there for 30 years, for 20 years, there were nominations of the entire political palette. The Constitutional Tribunal was also supposed to function in this way. This rotation has, as it were, a completely different cadence than the one in the political calendar; it was the balancing of different influences. This was broken at the Constitutional Court. And it happened... This was done within a year, 2 years, rather than within 5 and 4 years. And right now, we're going to replace it once. One-on-one, one-off, one-off, - 60%. - 60%? Judges. And it will be only one formation that decides From the National Court of Justice, through the President ! about what it will look like in the end and who will be subject to this new justice system. You asked the senator: what's in Europe? Mr. Senator, we've talked about this many times. We have one example... I mean, I remember one example, but it's very possible that there's already more of them, or there's gonna be more of them in a minute. Well, after the subsequent changes in our justice system, I think the D.A.'s office, or maybe the court, I don't know, demanded extradition. As far as I know from the case description, it was about a man who committed a common crime. It's called... Well, not so common, 'cause it was about drugs. It was a thing that normally isn't any problem at all, it was always automatic. And here, somewhere in Ireland, some judge that, of course, none of us have any influence on, has decided that At least that's what she knows. Our justice system has stopped providing guarantees. And now the question is, will this continue? It's okay. I have said many times in the adoption of these laws how these problems can have a dramatic impact, all the problems that we point out, which we are talking about all the time, on common courts, on the justice system in the field of family law. It could be drama, for example. for a business that operates across borders. Well, let's imagine that some cheater who tricks a Polish entrepreneur will say that the sentence that came here in Poland does not give the guarantees of a fair trial, because the court is politicized. We have a problem because I think it's going to have a negative impact on a gray citizen, on every citizen. Three divisions of power. I'm not gonna dwell on it, Senator, because it's a rhetorical question. Here we are dealing with a situation in which any change, including in this law, which will lead to an increase in the possibility of the unconstitutional termination of the first term of office of the Supreme Court... In my opinion, every step of this kind is detrimental to the three divisions of power, because this third power must be independent, even and above all, if it does not like the ruling majority. That's why she was created. She's not just like most people in parliament who have to say things or do things... Because there's a political majority here, and it's normal here, but it's quite the opposite in court. Even in the D.A.'s office, despite hierarchical submission, there should be people who decide themselves, and all the changes that were made to us at the beginning of this term, have completely broken any institutional and actual independence, including in the case of the D.A.'s office. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Thank you, Senator.]] I'm still... [[I'm sorry.]] [[No, no, one more question. One more question.]] [[I didn't know because I came in the middle.]] Yeah, there were three questions, so I'll finish. Has this been consulted with the judges? Well, the opinion we have would theoretically indicate that there was some consultation, but let's not be charmed. After all, we know that such consultations could take place if the Ministry came up with this idea, because this is a different path and then the consultations must be very broad. But we know that wasn't the point. The point was to do it as soon as possible, not consult with someone. I repeat what I already quoted. Well, the Supreme Court's opinion, the opinion of the other judges' organisations, the opinion of the Ombudsman, the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation, they are all devastating. In previous opinions, one could see some evidence of polemics with solutions proposed for subsequent changes, while dismantleing the justice system. But there's nothing here but talking about jumping to court. There is expressis verbis said that that's all these changes do. Also abolishing the necessary... The same goes for... I am focusing on the Supreme Court because I think that such focus makes it easier to perceive these changes, even in the case of illegals. But these changes are much wider, much deeper. After all, this is all about giving further tools to manipulate also in the lower courts. Now the question of Senator Libicki. Mr. Senator, I have partially answered your question about whether we can see any consistency here or whether this is pure chaos. Mr. Senator, judging by the fact that we're gathering for the time being... You said it was the fifth time. What's the fifth one? As if to add changes to the KRS and add to the other... I feel like we're only fighting for justice in this term of office for three years. I'm paying attention... I don't see consistency here. An example is the President's veto of 2 laws and without any further consideration of the introduction of 1 law. Everyone was wondering why Mr. President let go of one when he vetoed two. There was no deeper explanation. Then there was a stalemate and a little exchange of rudeness between palaces. And then what did we get? We got a de facto... [[Same thing.]] ...the same thing, except it was written by your president and put on a slightly different side. [[It's all wrapped up differently.]] It's all wrapped up differently. But the middle, as some say, is even worse. And where's the logic here if all these actions are so inconsistent? I don't see logic here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u47	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u48	I have a question for all three Senators rapporteurs about the committee meeting. I would like to know from you what your opinion is, but also what opinion was expressed at the committee meeting on a number of significant provisions. Fabulous and, you might say, amazing. Namely, whether there were examples given at the committee's meeting, that some body which is obliged to adopt resolutions would say, e.g. could a general meeting be held without a quorum? How was this justified with regard to the resolutions of the General Assembly of Judges of Appeal? What were the reasons for this? To be honest, as a third sector, I know that even NGOs are not allowed to do such a thing. And in the justice system, that's what we're proposing. I understand it's about some special circumstances. I'd like to know what they'd be like. Second line. It is said that the quality of the courts and judges appointed to this body is at stake. What, then, was such a significant reduction in the number of documents to be submitted, the applicant for a judge's office, as well as the documents that are taken into account, even when assessing the candidate's qualifications? How this was justified, how it should be improved the quality of the functioning of the courts and the quality of the ruling at all? And the third point, which is also amazing to me, is the introduction of punishment before punishment. Now we're starting to see more clearly what the Disciplinary Chamber is for, what are these modes for? Well, because the possibility is being introduced... not the possibility. The automatic reduction by half of the salary... [[Mr. Senator, please...]] I'll ask you a question, yes. [[...go to the end because you've been asking a question for over two minutes.]] ...half and 25% Before the conviction of criminal liability...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. [[What were the reasons for this?]] Please allow questions to last no longer than one minute, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Three and a half minutes...]] Up to three. But I haven't given you the floor yet. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u50	Question for the Senator of the majority. Mr. Senator, the changes you've made to the law on the judiciary have been running for a while. Why don't you tell me what the effects of this... How much has happened to speed things up in court proceedings? What is the length of cases in court proceedings, whether they have been shortened or not? How does it all look after the statutory changes, or did they affect in any way what is the main problem, the chronicity of court cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome, Senator. [[I'm sorry, I didn't prepare, I'm not prepared. Please...]] Senator Zdrojewska. Is there a senator? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] You don't have a senator. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Is it? [[Voice from the room: I don't think she's here, she's gone.]] She left for a while. Senator Shark. I see she's in place, and she's definitely prepared. [[Yeah, I'm ready, and I'm here.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u52	I to the 2 rapporteurs: the majority and minorities, so-called. [[Which senator is the rapporteur for the minority?]] Please? [[Senator Rulewski or Senator Pociej?]] She's cute. [[Voice from the room: He's younger.]] I have a question about... Probably you, both of you have also received emails from worried people, relatively young, but already having limited rights to a supplementary application, which this restriction discriminates against many Poles. I have this question: where did this entry come from about the age limit of 35 years in the case of applications in the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and up to 40 years in the case of a supplementary application and thus the entry into the profession of judge and prosecutor? It's an age limit, but it's also related to a violation of the law, because no one... This is, of course, age discrimination. And I'd like to ask you where that came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Comforter, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u54	Thank you. First question... Senator Augustine, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Firstly, reducing the number of documents, and secondly, even the lack of documents. Mr. Senator, I absolutely think... That didn't sound like the committee meeting, that's true, but I absolutely do. Well, we've been leaning a little less on this topic. That's the urge to speed up at all costs. Well, because we have two circumstances that indicate that it's just to make up for your personal condition as soon as possible with your people. ♪ 'Cause if on the one hand ♪ In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Supreme Court, and all, except the Ministry of Justice, who have consulted this project The exemption on the possibility of appealing against the decisions of the National Courts of Justice is introduced... Why am I talking about shutting it down? Well, that's because it's an illusory leave of opportunity. Although a delict may appeal against the decision of the National Judicial Council, it may even lead to the annulment of the decision to give a positive opinion to his opponent, but what of it, since he has been ruling for a year? So the point is, right now... And here, I must say, in very sincere words, the Minister said it was for that. And on the other hand, you need these candidates... 'Cause if we do everything in a hurry, on a cap-paw and at the last minute, you have to give them some options, 'cause one and the other might forget to send the documents. So just in case, if we want to promote a stowaway, you have to give him the opportunity to complete these documents, you can call him, etc., etc. Now, too... And I think that's the reason for the record. We also need to widen the spectrum of those to whom... 'Cause we know that so far, it's pretty average to catch candidates in this muddy water. We need to widen the spectrum. It has to be a reduction in the standard to expand the spectrum and so that a much larger number of people can be reported. [[Quorum.]] About the quorum... But do we say... [[For adoption...]] Well, that sounded like it, and in the course of the conversation was also the speech of our Legislative Office. There have been statements that it is evident that, regardless of the number of people, it is a matter of being able to decide that the abolition of the quorum will result in easier decision-making... [[But was it said, or is there such a structure anywhere?]] [[Quiet, please.]] Senator, it's been said many times... it's been said that in all the multiple organs... There were very different examples, but it was said that everywhere so that a resolution, some decision, some proposal were representative of the whole of this environment... Well, the higher the quorum, the harder it is, of course, to make such a resolution, but then it has the characteristics of representativeness for the whole body. And so it will be possible to make them on behalf of the government with the help of a few people. I can't, unfortunately, answer. Well, maybe Senator Ambrosik can. You know, about the pre-array thing. Although the Minister explained it because it actually fell and this issue was raised, I regret to admit that I did not understand the ratio legis of this change. In fact, the Minister spoke a little bit about this, but I did not find any confirmation of this solution. And as for... there was one more question... [[It's about limiting age to 35 years...]] No, but there was another question I didn't have time to write down... [[No, there were three questions.]] Three were, weren't they? Good. [[But still from the others...]] Yes. Supplementary application and age limitation. Yes, there was a speech about it, Senator. It was a charge. The Minister spoke on this subject, in my opinion in a coherent manner, although we must weigh two points here. What the Minister said has reasonable grounds. The thing is, At least that was what the Minister said. If we allow people to rule only after the age of 40, they will soon reach retirement age and later, after leaving the profession, when they are at rest, will collect very much money. And from a purely financial, economic point of view, they will work too short to have such apanasses. As I say, there is, of course, some reasonableness in this, and I am not questioning it. Nevertheless, again... Because it is presented in such a package, under such circumstances, then of course I am not surprised that you can find some other bottom here and want to turn off the older ones, the more experienced ones, the less susceptible to suggestions and pressures, and the admission of young people, without experience that can be manipulated or influenced without much problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u55	Thank you very much. Would Senator Rulewski like to comment on Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's questions? Because Senator Augustine also referred these questions to you, right? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the question of salary, because I actually asked such a question and the Minister's answer was that, first of all, it is the regulation in the present law... We're talking about penalties, I'm sorry, we're talking about advance penalties, which are enforced after a judgment of some kind, whether it's a disciplinary officer or a court. These are, moreover, quite serious amounts. So the Minister replied that, first of all, it is prescribed from the present law and, as I understand it, there were no problems. And secondly, it is obvious that the Minister's response concerned the retired judges. It's kind of immoral for a retired judge to get full pay even though... [[She's innocent.]] The other way around. The Minister has commanded that she's been convicted... [[No.]] ...but even unlawfully, indeed, even unlawfully... She was wrongfully convicted by the first instance. That was the reason. I didn't exactly agree, and I thought that especially in such a judicial world, serious people, the collection of advance penalties is an expression of some mistrust of judges. That's one thing. The second lack of documentation during the examination of applications for a judge. I think it's... I am here almost entirely confirming Senator Pociej's statement. This is an attempt to appoint judges on the phone or by e-mail. He's gonna report, he's gonna e-mail, he's gonna send the papers tomorrow. We don't even know if these documents are gonna have to be done. Or, what I think Senator Pociej signaled, these candidates can be a lot, will be equivalent, so Mrs Pawłowicz's method will ask the candidate, i.e. the judge already chosen, to supplement the documentation... As far as the lack of quorum is concerned, this matter has indeed been under consideration. I will say, not to repeat, that my assumptions are going to what Senator Pociej also said, it is a matter of improving the decision-making process. But I don't want to say that the Ministry... I'm sorry, read: these five Members certainly intended so. There was often a statement in the Minister's statements, and perhaps it is true that he is not responsible for this law, that this law is written by Members. And for this reason, Mr. Senator Augustine, since you're already asking so thoroughly, we're actually having difficulty answering the question of what they were following, because there was no representative... I know that in various kinds of organizations, even mass ones, the question of quorum is completely settled, but it is not a matter of saying that a quorum is not required. Even if it isn't, for example, a cooperative case is referred to as the need to convene a new assembly. If it doesn't help, then it's said again... I mean, we're talking about a convention of delegates or a general assembly of delegates in a cooperative. But such an attitude could mean the government's disbelief in legal self-government, the self-government of the judicial profession. And that's it. As for the question of Senator Shark, who has misjudged me, I would like to say that in the minority proposal I am directing this to the right side of the school. It is a proposal to abolish age restrictions for students of the school in Krakow. Indeed, the Minister has applied the economic criterion here. Maybe it's important, over this age... that there are cases that people are studying at this school on Christmas Eve... The idea is to get a judge's position for a year, for the benefit of making use of the benefits of the judge's state, i.e. pensions and other social benefits. Well, the opposite argument is that, Minister, it's not that it's enough to finish school and become a judge or an assistant or a referee. First of all, you have to have this job and approved by the National Judicial Council to get these apanages. That is why it is debatable. But from the correspondence that you also receive on the mailboxes, it's an interesting thing, that this school's pledges, today... Besides, there are no transitional provisions on what will happen to those who have just reached that age, and they are, for example, one year away from finishing... Well, these pledges are willing. Maybe you haven't read it, Minister, which is why I'm telling you they want to give up part of the apanage or other benefits they would have had if they had received this valuable title of judge. It's worth considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u57	Thank you very much. And I would ask you to answer all three of your senators, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, the rapporteur of the majority. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u58	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Question 1 concerned a reduction in the number of documents in the competition procedure. Well, this is because it will facilitate this procedure, reduce bureaucracy, and above all, High Izbo, it will be possible to move the judges of the Visitors, who also evaluate the work of specific candidates, to judge. This smaller number of cases that the visiting judges will be required to identify with which they will need to get acquainted... This will make it possible to shift them to judgment, which will also reduce the length of proceedings. Question 2 concerned Article. 129: if the disciplinary court issues a resolution allowing the judge to be held at rest to be liable for a criminal offence committed intentionally by a public prosecution, it shall, of its own motion, reduce between 25% and 50% the amount of his salary for the duration of this procedure... The same provision shall apply to judges in an active state. In fact, the Minister said at the committee meeting that there was such a case that the judge in respect of whom disciplinary proceedings were being conducted had retired and therefore acquired the right to be paid at rest of 75% the last salary. Thus, this transition to rest was a reward to him, in spite of his disciplinary action. This solution is used to counteract such actions, such escapes to a state of rest... [[Why before the coronation?]] I'm sorry, but don't interrupt me. Okay? [[Let me clarify the question: why before validating?]] If disciplinary action is terminated by remission, acquittal, the judge concerned shall receive the full refund... So there's no danger here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And please tell me, how could you later enforce this payment, which will be paid to such a judge after a conviction? [[Yes, you can.]] Well, that's also a problem. [[Replace the punishments...]] [[But you're not having a conversation right now.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to... [[Listen to the answers to the questions.]] ...at general assemblies, so it's simple. Now, unfortunately, judges at general assemblies often break this quorum and may not make the right decisions. And this is really the regulation of this state, which unfortunately the judges themselves are contributing to, this obstruction. After all, general assemblies, among others. assess candidates for judges. The breaking of the quorum causes, at least, that competition proceedings cannot be conducted. As far as this age is concerned, the Minister has also responded. However, it is mainly about economic issues, i.e. short ruling and the possibility to acquire later the right to this resting state, which is associated with high apanages. But this problem was also highlighted by the previous national council. And when judging candidates for judges, age was also considered. And often in the teams it was raised that a person is too old and it is, as it were, an escape or... maybe not an escape, but an attempt to enter the profession of a judge, to the office of a judge only so that after a short time of ruling, he would go to rest and acquire the right to a high pension at rest. What were the effects of the amendments? We will have to wait for these effects, ladies and gentlemen, because the reform of the justice system has not been closed. There are still many issues that need to be addressed and that need to be changed. I think everything's still ahead of us. I believe Senator Zientarski was presenting statistics on the Supreme Court that the number of cases adjudicated has decreased... But this is also due to the fact that unfortunately there is a certain obstruction in the appointment of Supreme Court judges. Let me just remind you that Parliament has set up two new chambers in the Supreme Court, the Disciplinar Chamber and the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Board, which are to... well, judge the work of judges. The Disciplinary Board is to respond to certain disciplinary delicacies, and the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Board will recognise emergency complaints. I think that these Houses should be set up quickly, and I think that this obstruction is also caused by some concern about the results of these Chambers. What citizens raised during meetings, i.e. the need to refer to certain judgments, to certain reservations, to the work of the judiciary as a whole... I would just like to add that the lack of documents and the possibility of further proceding KRS teams... What enables this team to actually work is also the answer to the possibility of blocking competitions as a result of not submitting documents. After all, we cannot imagine, High Izbo, that individual candidates for judges will limit their ability to be appointed judge without presenting relevant documents, namely scientific titles, opinions. This is only a provision that serves to continue the process despite the lack of documents. Let me just remind you that the National Judicial Council is not bound by the recommendation of the team. And often this entitlement is used in the KRS.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u59	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej. [[Good. There you go. Ask me a question.]] Dear Senator, you are a lawyer of great experience. I'd like to ask you to answer the question of why this bill contains a passus regarding the granting of a State's Attorney General... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...who has been granted permission to live outside the locality... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Gentlemen, please be quiet because you can't hear the senator. Quiet, please.]] [[Senator, one more time.]] Yeah, I'll say it again. Dear Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen! Senator Kleina, please be quiet.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I, Mrs. Marshal? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: All the time Klein.]] [[All you had to do was talk once, and I noticed.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, okay, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Quiet, please. Senator, you're welcome.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you to explain, as an experienced lawyer, how did this passage come into force regarding the granting to the Public Prosecutor of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, who has obtained permission to reside outside the locality of this office unit of the Public Prosecutor's Office, among others, rights. to accommodation free of charge or reimbursement of costs incurred for this purpose at the Office of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm sure you're familiar with the law. Well, it is very strange that, in the case of a law that is so fundamental and de facto disrupting the foundations of the judiciary in Poland, suddenly such a thing appears. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Do you know if this involves sanctioning some fatal, bad practices that took place at the D.A.'s office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Rulewski. [[Good. Ask them, and then the senator will answer.]] Senator, was the question of the principles of correct legislation raised at the committee's meeting as one of the fundamental elements of such a democratic principle, in a constitution defined by the principle of a democratic rule of law, which says that it is not appropriate in a single draft law, as it is in the case of a law that we are talking about regulating as different matters as the law of the prosecutor's office and the fundamental solutions for the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council? Has the debate raised such a question that, in the context of the regulation of one institution, the fundamental solutions for other areas of justice are introduced sideways?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u63	Thank you. And Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u64	I have a question for Senator Ambrosik. Well, I have to ask this question because this is a deadly serious situation in which you put the Polish justice system. At the committee meeting, did anyone contest the data related to the so-called. judicial reform? Four of them are particularly crucial: firstly, there are still more than 700 posts for 10,000 posts in the judiciary; secondly, there has been a slowing of judicial decisions in criminal and civil matters, and this has slowed down considerably, almost twice. Has anyone questioned this, thirdly, that only 18 judges in 10,000, well, almost 10,000, less than 10,000 judges in Poland have applied to the KRS, and after another, that this law, which we are considering at the moment, so radically lowers standards, the bar of qualification, that basically makes an unqualified person able to take the position of a professional? Has anyone questioned these four data? As I recall, we talked about this at the committee meeting. If no one questioned them, Senator, it's the result of what you do with the judiciary, it's the result of what you call propaganda reform, and what you really do... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...is a wreck.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u65	Good. Thank you very much. You answer Senator Comfort, then Senator Rulewski, then Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u66	Senator, I'm fighting in my chest, it wasn't mentioned, because just comparing the importance of the subjects... Of course, we were talking about a systemic threat, we were talking about the most important points of this presentation, about those points that would most and most adversely affect the Supreme Court and general courts. That's why we're missing the point. All I can say is... Here I refer to the earlier question of Senator Libicki, who asked whether it was thought through, whether it was a collection of random movements depending on who would discover and when something was not seen. I think that... because, as the senator remembers, at first, this bill was called the D.A.'s Attorney's Office Act. And that's very nicely scored in the opinion that came from the Supreme Court. That this is already the height of hypocrisy, to even call hiding what really is most important in the bill. The only way I can say it is this: or it was by chance chosen to make such a change so that it could be called, that this is even a law on the prosecution's office. Naively, I don't know who thought we wouldn't know it was really about the Supreme Court and the judiciary; or Well, that'd be a little worse. It was thought that this increase in apanasia would be quietly smuggled in, because we will, of course, focus on what is the nucleus and the most important thing, the biggest threat, and here it will sneak in somehow sideways. I don't know which one of these is real either, but I'm sure in a series of questions to the Minister we'll be able to discover these dependencies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please answer Senator Rybicki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, indeed, the error has already been discovered in the Seym, in the change of hierarchy. And I think, as I recall, the only amendment other than that notified by the PiS, which was included in the Sejm, was about the violation of the art of legislation. And the order was changed from the D.A.'s office to the courts. As far as the current title is concerned, it actually contains a number of areas of the judiciary and regulates the system of several courts and prosecutors. According to our Legislative Office, the current form is already acceptable, because it is still a duty for legislative art to make the title start with a recently amended law. The recently amended law was another law on courts, wasn't it? And that's why it's an additional argument. But so do I. This is the opinion of the recipient, the ordinary customer of many laws That mixing of many content in laws, so-called. other laws, however, should be the subject of a certain assessment, because it is difficult to... For example, there has been a farmers' insurance law recently, and there have been trade union tasks. And imagine the union guy who reads his homework. In the Trade Unions Act, farmers do not find this, and they find it in the Farmers' Social Insurance Act or in the Universal Courts Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u69	Thank you. Senator Ambrosik, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! The question you asked. President Gersdorf, who did not convene as President of the National Judicial Council, should also be the first to be referred to the Court of Justice as the first member of the Board of Appeal. for several months of the meeting of the National Judicial Council, which has also affected the fact that these vacant posts are as much as we currently have. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You have 700 jobs.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Some of these jobs would certainly be filled by now, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it. Senator Zientarski, you were a member of the board, and you know that the competition procedures are being conducted as well as the Council meeting. And it had a direct effect on the fact that the ruling was partial... The length of proceedings has increased, as Senator Zientarski claims. Yes? Because I understand that some research... [[Iustitia served.]] It's also related to the fact that these 700 jobs are uninsured. Unfortunately, it is also connected with the fact that the National Judicial Council could not proceed to competitions. As for the fact that only 18 judges have come forward, you, Mr Senator, well know how the environment has pushed, what the calls have been for not to run, what the pressure has been on the judges not to apply for the National Judicial Council. As we learned from the representatives of the National Council of Courts, previously candidates for this council, which was reported by the judicial community, were also few. They were only candidates who obtained a positive opinion of a particular judge, and then democracy was also illusory. With regard to this reduction in qualifications, please indicate to me the relevant article of this amendment. Mr. Senator, would you be so kind?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u71	I'd love to, Senator. This is the article that says that you can not deliver a document and you can be chosen, and this is chosen effectively, because the appeal against a candidate or competitor will be considered, but will not have the advantage of effectiveness. So whoever doesn't deliver the documents and gets elected by the KRS can be a judge. Well, it doesn't just happen in a civilized world, it happens in a bantustan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u72	Mr. Senator, you're interpreting... [[Art. 31, that's §2...]] You're not... [[It's like putting a sick quack by the bed instead of a professional.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] You're misinterpreting this. The lack of these documents does not prevent the team from proceding... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I answer that question and I'd like you to listen to me. [[I'm listening.]] The point is that the lack of these documents does not result in a reduction in qualifications. This provision only causes the team of the National Judicial Council to proceed in cases where such documents are not available. The National Judicial Council in plenary may, of course, request the addition of these documents. If he has doubts about the candidate, he may call this candidate for an interview. So that I think these fears are inappropriate at this point. [[You didn't convince me.]] But it's a possibility, Mr. Senator. The National Judicial Board may hear candidates at plenary meetings and do so. Many times I have been a participant in such hearings myself. He can also request these opinions, scientific titles, evidence of some publications. So it just makes it impossible to block the team's work. [[Likewise, Mr. Senator, you could give the opportunity to promote one or two military degrees to someone who doesn't meet the criteria in the military.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u73	Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. This isn't any kind of free talk. That's the answer. [[But the senator turned to me.]] You're listening... [[So I'm maintaining this...]] But, Senator, I didn't give you the floor. [[After the liquidation of the civilian corps, is the possibility of promoting...]] Mr. Senator... [[But, Senator...]] [[...people from the nomenclature... that's what happened in the Polish People's Republic.]] [[But, uh, clumsy...]] Senator rapporteur, excuse me, do you have anything else to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u74	I would just like to say that not submitting documents does not guarantee that the National Judicial Council will choose such a person. I'll tell you more, it really limits the choice of this judge, this candidate. After all, no one will act against himself by not submitting documents that would certify his education and titles or contain any positive opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Ambrosik. [[Senator Ambrosik. Good.]] I'll change the question a little, Mr. Senator, because knowing you... You're a lawyer, you know what you're saying and what you're doing. Right? That's what I'm asking you. You said in the previous sequence that the sovereign was expecting change, that the citizens were expecting changes in the judiciary. Well, there it is. That was over 60%, according to the labs. [[It was over 80%.]] Or even 80%. Mr. Senator, I have two questions about this statement. Could you indicate which elements in this amendment or in the previous 5 - Yes, in one sentence. or in two sentences It improves the situation of the citizens concerned when it comes to shortening the length of cases and all the things that citizens have been complaining about? That's the first question. And the other. Do you know the latest research on the opinion of Poles on the changes made by Law and Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u77	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Ambrosik because I feel like we haven't understood each other lately. Mr. Senator told me that Law and Justice were going to the elections with a program of broad judicial changes. I believe, and here I agree with you, that the Law and Justice went with the slogan 'I emphasize: the slogan 'wide changes in the judiciary'. That's the truth. And my question was whether the election slogan was followed by a clear and precise programme of changes in the judiciary. One, another shift. I believe that the fifth, although it is possible to include other changes, as Senator Pociej said, shows that such a holistic, thoughtful concept was not there. If it had been, it would have been introduced by one law, not by five successive amendments. Therefore, I ask this question: did the Law and Justice, when going to elections, have one overall idea of what the courts in Poland should look like after the elections if the Law and Justice win? And it won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u79	Please, Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u80	Thank you very much. Finally. I'd like to go back to the grounds for working on this bill. This is a question for Senator Ambrozik, as well as the other two Senators rapporteurs in the first part. In the second part, it will be a question for Senator Ambrosik. I'll mark the second part of that question. Mr Senators, does the proposed amendment of the rules 3 months after they were introduced not, in your opinion, demonstrate the instrumental, unfortunately, treatment of the law as a tool to achieve the unconstitutional political objective, which is, of course, to change the first President of the Supreme Court, whose term expires in 2020? It's done, among other things. by amending the rules on participation in competitions for the office of the Supreme Court Judge. And now the second part. I'm asking Senator Ambrosik. Mr. Senator, if that is not the case, I would ask you very much to indicate the provisions of the contested law which will positively affect the functioning of the Supreme Court, other than those which I have pointed out and which, in my view, serve to achieve the specific political objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, rapporteur for the majority. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u82	The first question you asked was the senator... [[Blackhead.]] Yes, Blackbeard. [[Voice from the room: Blackbay.]] Yes, sir. I know the name, Mr. Senator. What impact do the changes that have been proposed and introduced have on the justice system? I think the impact... the reform of the justice system is still unfinished. I think we'll have to wait for the effects of change at all. We have talked here about many vacancies, about the fact that the Supreme Court is not fully functioning because 2 chambers are not currently established in the Supreme Court. So it's not like we're coming in, making a bill, and everything's gonna change. [[The term of office is adjourned.]] Well, Mr. Senator, you were 8 years old! Eight years to change the courts... [[We've made a reform.]] You've made a reform, yes. The trial... [[You guys flipped...]] [[Quiet, please. This is not a free exchange.]] The adversarial process, Senator, yes. The adversarial process was a panacea for Poles' pains? Come on, Mr. Senator. [[You turned it around...]] No... But, Senator... [[Quiet, please.]] ...please give me a real answer. Well, unfortunately, then the judge is merely an observer of the trial, and lawyers or parties dispute the arguments. There's just a problem, Senator, that... [[...that the D.A. needs to be prepared.]] ...that in such a process will usually be the one who will have on his side more famous... [[The D.A. needs to be prepared.]] No, Senator, you know what it's like. [[Quiet, please. Please do not interfere with the senator's response.]] As far as polls go, I don't generally follow polls that... They refer, as I understand it, to whether or not... Tell me what those polls were referring to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u83	But, Senator, I ask you to answer the question asked by the senators, because this is not the time... [[Well, you asked...]] ...for a free exchange, so that you can discuss it now. [[Mrs. Marshal, the senator doesn't answer my questions.]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] And when it comes to such a free discussion, I'd like to invite you to join the clowns. Please answer the question. [[Because... thank you.]] And I ask you not to disturb the Senator rapporteur. Because then there's a charge that you didn't hear or that the senator didn't answer. The senator answers the questions. [[But I...]] Do you want to enroll in the next line of questioning? [[If your marshal would allow it, I would. And if not now, in the second round...]] Okay, in the second round.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u84	As for the polls, I just don't know what polls you were talking about. You were talking about the last polls. Well, it's hard for me to answer that question... [[That's not surprising.]] But I assume he's walking. - I'm sure it's okay. For the effectiveness of this reform, whether Poles believe in this effectiveness. Yes? [[But we're not talking about polls here, ladies and gentlemen.]] As I say, the effects of the reform will have to wait... [[A thousand years.]] ...for a while. Senator Libicki asked if... Of course the government was going... or Law and Justice, the United Right was going to the election with the slogan of judicial reform. Did she have a plan for this reform? She did. And we've made these changes. E.g. We've talked a lot about the disclosure of property statements, the drawing of cases. I remember one of the first interventions I made in my office, she was just about a judge who... [[The Supreme Court doesn't have...]] ...who may not have been in conflict, but could not communicate with the head of the department, and unfortunately received mainly multi-volume issues, which also affected how he could get acquainted with these matters and, consequently, that he could give a ruling that... well, was not substantive. So we have introduced this drawing precisely to prevent such situations. Another announcement of Law and Justice was about an emergency complaint, and it is now in place. As you probably know, such a complaint cannot be prosecuted due to the failure to set up an appropriate chamber in the Supreme Court, as I have already mentioned. We also announced the involvement of citizens in the justice process and introduced this too. The jury's participation in the Supreme Court will now become a fact. [[Voice from the courtroom: Where are the jurors?]] Senator Slugocki asked for changes, whether such rapid procedure is related to the need to appoint the first President of the Supreme Court. Well, it's gonna be okay, Mr. Senator, if the Supreme Court has this president, because as we all know... [[He's got a CEO.]] ...Mrs. President Gersdorf has retired in connection with the achievement of age, which has restricted the possibility of ruling without making an appropriate request. [[What age?]] [[But she's taken...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Other rules that improve the work of the court, these positive changes... Where are they, which are they?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] Well, jurors, a complaint, for example, allowing the first president to be appointed, allowing the Supreme Court judges to be appointed at all, because as you well know... [[It worked.]] ...now it's impossible. The court was acting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, if there's an answer, you can ask.]] ...but it's supposed to work... [[It was working fine.]] ...but it's supposed to work even better. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] There is a law that has introduced more judges into judgment, which will also contribute to the fact that the duration of the Supreme Court will be at a lower level. [[Already?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u85	Now you're asking Senator Komarnicki a question. There you go... [[But I haven't gotten one yet, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[I asked the same question, Mr. Marshal, as did Senator Rulewski.]] Would you like to finish? [[I'm done with the answer.]] The senator answered. The question is... [[But the senator's answers...]] Now you're answering, aren't you? I'm sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u86	Mr. Senator, your question requires a broader answer. Firstly, there was a talk here about this problem of vacancies and the problem of not calling the KRS by Mrs Gersdorf. First of all, I absolutely cannot agree with Senator Ambrozik's thesis that the problem of vacancies is precisely a matter of this short time of two months without the president calling the National Court Register. [[Partly, partly.]] Partly? But that's part of it, because these two months versus three years... Well, that's a pretty big difference. Secondly, I would like to remind you that not calling the KRS wasn't, as you might say, some kind of obstruction. Let me remind you that the president demanded documents from the Sejm. Documents that have remained secret until today and which she has been denied. What did she want to see? She simply wanted to check whether the persons who were elected to the National Court Register were properly proposed whether the list of support was in line with the requirements laid down by the Act. After all, she could not bring the National Courts together and allow judges to participate in the National Courts of Justice who would have been elected in accordance with this procedure. If today we have against the Supreme Court jurors, whose activities are much smaller, let's say, weight can be attached... If we have very serious checking procedures there, and yet very many of them for purely formal reasons, not being notified by the relevant organizations... If that was enough to undermine such a proposal, then of course, the President had the absolute right and duty to at least try to check the candidates and the persons elected to the National Judicial Council. Unfortunately, she was prevented, and despite the fact that she was prevented, at the moment she was informed that her request would surely be refused. She called a National Judicial Council. Now this number of vacancies... In my opinion, for three years, and perhaps even a little longer, this is a deliberate action. And I'm going back to the question of whether you can see any methodical action in all these amendments. I would like to say to you that I only see one methodology and only one goal, which can be seen from the very beginning: until it is exchanged for its people in turn by the KRS and the presidents, we will not allow those who have been positively consulted before, because they are not ours. And that's how we have 700 or 800 judges who... we have vacancies in common courts, and that's how we don't have a decision on nine candidates. Now, if you'll excuse me, there seems to have been a decision against these nine candidates. But I say, they have been able to act for a year and a half, for the benefit of the Supreme Court, in the Supreme Court. Nor can I agree with Senator Ambrozik's statement that there was a positive plan, that there was an emergency complaint. Well, I remember exactly how here, in this courtroom and in the committee, one of the vice-ministers of justice begged... And to make it even more irrational, for the first and last time, with this begging, it was the plea of the ombudsman, both of you speaking with one voice because they begged the Senate not to introduce this amendment, because it would overturn the entire Ministry of Justice and turn the ombudsman... [[Yeah, but not together, including...]] So that... no, no. So that saying that... and besides, I remind you that it was introduced after the President vetoed the previous laws, and he threw it on the side. It wasn't at all in the first submission that was vetoed. Well, I can't agree with the fact that it was just such a thoughtful earlier decision. Mr. President, not looking to the full And that's why I don't think it's quite thought out. The consequences of this emergency complaint and how it can completely disorganize the justice system if it works as the President imagined it would, contrary to the consultation and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Well, this is not proof to me of the consistency of this system that has been proposed to us, but it is precisely that everyone is setting certain priorities at all regardless of any coherent common plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u87	Mr. Senator, thank you. Did Senator Rulewski want to... Looks like he had a question too. [[Yeah, yeah. Mind if I take a seat?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, in response to questions regarding the time limits for the entry into force of the law and your objection, whether or not she has any interest in fulfilling, say, certain institutional interests, I must say yes... You mentioned three months when it came to the entry into force of the bill. The situation is worse, because some... Indeed, many provisions enter into the legislative period adopted, e.g. on the bail hearing even since January 1st. However, in the most relevant cases, i.e. the qualification of judges, the reception and even the appeal of some of them, if necessary, to the administrative court, it is assumed that the law shall enter the day following the announcement. And this is what the legislative department has pointed out, although it has not tabled a proposal for an amendment. I think it is necessary to look at this issue in the course of the debate. In particular, I can say that among these provisions implementing this law immediately there are excellent provisions concerning the presentation of documents, i.e. it is possible from the first day to submit an application without documentation, and this proposal can, of course, be dealt with depending on... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u89	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Pociej, if I may. [[There you go.]] Mr. Senator, there's been a long time in the judicial community saying there's been a huge shortage of personnel. When you read the bill... Well, it doesn't go hand in hand with solving this problem. How can this be improved when it comes to these staff shortages among judges? And do you see that this bill will somehow solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u91	Let me ask you another question: does any of the senators registered have a question for Senator Pociej? [[I do.]] There's Senator Napieralski in line. There you go. Three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course I am addressing you with a question as a senator, but also a prominent lawyer and a man who is a practice in Polish law. Well, this law closes up a very ungrateful stage for Poland to change the Polish judiciary, the justice system, in a ungrateful and very dangerous way for us citizens. My question is as follows. Because we are talking here, in Parliament about the Supreme Court, about institutions that do not necessarily speak to Poles and Poles... I mean, we understand it, Poles and Poles understand it actually, but often they do not know the substance of the problem or do not know the substance of the threat. And I'd like to ask you about that threat. Could you tell the senator, give such a very simple example of what all the changes that PiS presented and made in a scandalous way in this Parliament, what all these changes... What can they do, and what danger can they pose to the citizen?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u93	And then there's Senator Spokesperson. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for Senator Pociej, rapporteur of the minority. Was the matter raised at the committee's meeting that this main purpose of the law, which was set up to change the President of the Supreme Court, is impossible to implement and that it is simply another legal bubble which will not allow this purpose to be achieved, because in this form the General Assembly of the Supreme Court cannot be convened and thus Or maybe get candidates to be president of the Supreme Court? Was there such a question raised? And since we're going to have another revision... If it wasn't raised, what's your opinion as an outstanding lawyer? Are those commentators really right who say that this bill cannot be replaced by a president? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u95	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u96	First, the question of Senator Komarnicki about what could have been done, what had to be done. Mr. Senator, the Polish justice system has been struggling with money for a long time. And here you can mention what Napoleon said, that you need money, money and, thirdly, money. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to remind you... I come back to this often, but for me, this is this litmus paper, which makes me have proof that the Law and Justice in general, to no extent, wants to speed up these procedures and that it is something else at all. Well, I'm going back to the novel then the Minister of Justice Gowina. Very contrary to much of the legal environment, he carried out a law in which he changed the way in criminal proceedings. According to that law, the change was supposed to accelerate, as the ministry then calculated, in which, as we all know, were the same department directors, the same employees, the same specialists... They then calculated that it could speed up by about 30% a case, which is one of the biggest problems of the Polish justice system, namely waiting for a sentence. This law entered into force about six months before the election. It cost incredible money because you had to train the prosecutors to do it. Well, it's been hundreds of hours, thousands of hours working on a very serious change. And what did Minister Ziobro do in the first months after he came to the ministry in relation to the bill of his deputy prime minister from the government, a colleague from the government bench? He threw it all in the trash before there was any way to figure out if it worked or if it didn't work. I will no longer bully myself and remind you of what the vice-ministers of his own government said about the amendment of Prime Minister Gowin here... that this is one of the dumbest things they've ever met, and that it should all be thrown in the trash. And in this context, I'm answering your question. I'm sure you'd have to spend all the time we're spending... As I say, there hasn't been a term in the history of our parliament where we're talking so much about the justice system. Well, we do talk all the time, but... it's a good saying: how much does it take to keep things from changing? But it's nothing to the citizen... Because here only and only changes personal things, but there is no, because there is no, any systemic presentation, which at least would have traces of ambition of what Gowin was doing. I don't know if this Gowin reform would have gone out or not. But there were rehearsals, there was an idea, for example. recording of trials. That's an example. And where are those ideas from the ministry, those wonderful 15 Members who have brilliant, wonderful ideas about how to change our justice system in terms of who's in charge of it? There isn't one such cross-cutting bill. There's nothing. I hope it's exhausting for this... [[Thank you very much, but I'm terrified.]] About Senator Napieralski's question... Mr. Senator, we've already talked about some of the effects this might have on an ordinary citizen. I'll say it again... I mean, we talked about it on the other side of the bill, but it was kind of uncollected... Thank you for that question. We have talked many times about the fact that when it comes to family law, it is an ordinary citizen, a Pole, a Polish woman who has a problem with parental care. Now these are extremely controversial problems. These are extremely disputed problems, even so far, because every system tends to... well, in this respect, to judge a little more in favour of its own citizen. But in a minute, like I said before... I was giving an example of the Irish court that stopped the extradition of the drug dealer to us because he said that this system was slipping away from... i.e. It falls into the hands of politicians. The judge asked whether she could believe this system and decided not to extradite this man to Poland, which was just absolutely certain and not requiring much thought... And that's what we've got. If our judgments are denied, the judgments of our courts in the field of family law, it can affect anyone, each of us, whether he is a politician or an entrepreneur or not working anywhere. It's gonna be drama. I was talking about how many entrepreneurs, not just the big ones, work with abroad. They're resisting, and they're trying to do their business. The fact that the Polish court should rule on it is because they have more confidence in it. Now they're gonna find a fraud who's gonna raise this problem that we're talking about today, which we've been talking about for the last three years... And so that he could, this entrepreneur, who makes hard money every day, running some small business out there, get that money... It's still a complicated cross-border procedure, but in a moment it'll just be from the vending machine that our justice system is unbelievable. But let's move on. After all, how many months our country lives by the accident of Prime Minister Szydło. After all, we see how they tried to manipulate a man who had a misfortune to find himself on the road... [[Mr. Senator, is that still the answer to the question?]] That's the answer, Mr. Marshal, because it can change... The question was, how does it affect a person? [[Proceed.]] Everybody in charge now... Of course, you can say that there is a small risk that you will run into the prime minister's car. Yeah, but it's more likely that most politicians are already hitting them. And now all these guarantees to the ordinary man, who so far have been an immanent internal feature of this very coherent system, which was known to be at the end, even after years, but will go to the Supreme Court, which has a huge chance of being impartial, is taken away from us. Here are the cases in which we can wipe ourselves against someone who is politically influential, this proverbial copper from Sienkiewicz's Potop, when Rządzian is suing for 30 years... Well, any one of us can come across something like this. That's why we'd like to make sure that the president depends on the party officer, it doesn't happen, and maybe it does. Unfortunately, it is not a problem duped, it simply exists, for each of us can exist, it already exists, and here we want to break the last barrier. [[Thank you very much, Senator. It speaks to imagination.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u97	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u98	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for both your rapporteurs, Senator Pociej and Senator Ambroziak, and the case... [[Ambrose.]] Ambrose, I'm sorry. I'm talking about the regulation on the double citizenship of judges. In general, this law excludes the possibility for judges who have dual citizenship to exercise their office. Only in the transitional provisions are these cases dealt with in such a way that it is possible that the judge, if he receives the approval of the National Judicial Council... if he so requests at this first stage, may possibly receive this consent, but if he is promoted or would like to be promoted, it is already impossible. Have you paid attention to this problem? Do you not think that this is, however, a restriction on civil rights, equality between citizens of the Republic of Poland in access to offices? After all, in most Polish institutions it is the right of people with double citizenship to operate in these institutions, I know that senators can be persons who have the nationality of two countries, and such cases, also in the current term, are. Shouldn't this matter be settled in a simple, indisputable way and giving this opportunity so that those who have dual citizenship can act as a judge? In some environments in Poland, this is a very important issue, because there are people who have origins... or maybe there are two nationalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u99	That's the question to... [[Senator Ambrosik and Senator Pociej.]] ...both senators. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The problem of citizenship was quite briefly addressed during the committee meeting. There is, of course, the possibility of promotion in the future in a situation where a person renounces citizenship. We're not restricting... [[Both? I mean...]] Yes, the Supreme Court, the higher courts are the courts in which judges should guarantee, however, the protection of certain guarantees which are available to citizens, Polish citizens. Therefore, I think it would be good if they were judges who have only Polish citizenship. However, it is not excluded that such judges who have dual citizenship may be promoted when one foreign citizen resigns. It is also possible to rule in the courts of a lower instance of judges with double nationality, when the National Council of the Court of Justice will give its consent in the light of the particular circumstances of obtaining this citizenship.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u101	Senator Comfort. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u102	I'm gonna start by saying that I disagree with the thesis that the senator just offered us, because I don't think the judge is a judge because it's to protect the interests of Poles. He acts on behalf of the Republic of Poland. And if we are dealing with a crime in our country, this crime is committed, I do not know, Ukrainian, the same Pole or Ukrainian is the victim, then this thesis is obviously not true, because the judge must judge according to the facts and must give a fair judgment. So in that sense... [[Defend an innocent man regardless of his origin.]] Yes, sir. In this sense, such a priori statement, in my opinion, is at all conflicting with the whole approach to the role of judge and justice. The judge must be impartial, he must be impartial simply. The question is whether, in any way, possession of this dual citizenship violates... I don't see that influence. The fact that someone has double citizenship for whatever reason... If such requirements are to be made, then perhaps much more so for us parliamentarians, rather than for a judge whose professional path... He comes to this Supreme Court. At least that's what happened so far. In a planned manner, thanks to his skills, thanks to the knowledge he gained after years of judgment. Well, it's taken into account, and we're not even talking about it here today. After all, the number of judges overturned by higher authorities is the most common and strongest criterion of whether he is good or bad. Now that you want to halve the number of judgments that will count in the evaluation... Well, it has a much worse effect on whether we choose a good judge or a bad judge than whether he has one or two citizenships. Well, for God's sakes, I'm glad you're here with us, Senator Anders. Does having two citizenships delete a person? [[I've got three.]] I'm looking into the eyes of the senator... I'm sure the senator will say no. [[Senator has three!]] Three citizenships... and that doesn't make the senator any worse, of course not. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I'm sure no one in this room is going to say that they are. So I don't understand why the judge should disqualify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u103	There you go. The senator's name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u104	But I must say that I could not have a more serious position in the Polish government than I have now. I can't be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and make decisions because there's always a fear that my loyalty will be either on one side or on the other. And that's the problem. I don't make those decisions. I work on the Polish, American side with Polonia. From me, let's say, what we're doing... It's not up to me. And I think that's the fear of that loyalty.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u105	Thank you. You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej, the rapporteur of the minority, about the European context. Mr Senator, the European Commission has opened proceedings against Poland for violation of the treaty obligations of the Supreme Court Act and my question is embedded in these realities. Does the contested law respond to these recommendations of the European Commission, or does it, so to speak, politically totally ignore? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u107	Does Senator Augustine have a question for Senator Pociej, too? [[Among other things.]] Well, then you can make it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u108	A question for Senator Pociej and Senator Ambrozik. Art. 5 raises very serious constitutional doubts. Did you say that this article violates the article? 2 Constitution, the principle of a democratic rule of law, art. 78 constitutions, i.e. the right to challenge decisions given at first instance and appeals, and Article. 45 and Article 45 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 77 of the Constitution, paragraph 2, respectively. 1 and 2 which provide for the right to court? How was this dealt with at the committee meeting, and what were the arguments that allowed the Constitution to be disregarded in one Article 4?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u109	Then I'll ask you to ask Marshal Borusewicz's question... Is he present? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Well, maybe we can stop with those questions. Mr. Senator, please. [[Question...]] Please answer briefly as possible, because there is still a long queue. Well, at least we have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u110	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Of course, I'll do my best. About Senator Slugocki's question... Mr. Senator, in my opinion... I mean, we talked about this very quickly at the committee meeting and this topic was not deepened, because he, so to speak, has already been fought so many times in the case of previous amendments, allegations and this growing collision with the European Commission, that here we have talked so quickly about it. But in answer to your question, I say that I have no doubt that, as with these seemingly new statements of the President instead of those vetoed and despite the visit of Prime Minister Morawiecki, what was happening and I have no doubt that what is happening at the moment is just pouring oil into the fire. What's more, given the assurances that the press was leaking... Despite the Prime Minister's assurances that there will be changes... Anyway, I'd like to remind you that there's been a government colporteured with such information that everything's okay now that we're going the right way, that we've got a deal. Well, the feedback I've heard is exactly the opposite. I mean, they were. such assurances, but what happened after that, and this bill, this setup is actually the exact opposite. And that's the only side that's made it clear that they're not relying on the truth of the assurance that... [[But that wasn't at the committee meeting.]] ...the justice dimension... [[It wasn't at the committee meeting.]] ...will function better. That's one thing. And second of all, you asked Senator Augustine that question. Mr. Senator, yes, we did. I asked the Minister a question about the illusoryness of the appeal. It was very strongly formulated as a charge by our Legislative Office. The Bureau has proposed an amendment in this respect, which I have taken over. That's first of all. Secondly, it was formulated, also very harshly, in the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation and in the opinion of the Supreme Court. It must be admitted that in the Constitution I forgot at the moment, which is an article There's a gate. It is said that a citizen has the right to challenge any decision. And again, it's like in other cases: unless, in exceptional cases, the law provides otherwise. I asked the question: what is a special accident? And I heard an answer that doesn't satisfy me. I heard it from the Minister of Justice and, if I remember correctly, the judge. There is a fear that judges will exercise their rights, that is to say, they will appeal. In the media space there was such information that judges would often appeal and that this could block the whole process. Therefore, with regard to a single casus, the law may be amended and the whole institution, this constitutional guarantee may be thrown into the basket. We've seen such exceptions before, which are being used... It was also used to dismantle other institutions: somewhere there is a small discrepancy, so we will read all of this completely different than we have read for 30 years. I believe that this is an instrumentalization of the law that is written about in the opinion of the Supreme Court. In order to force its revolution, an even more revolutionary and unconstitutional procedure is being carried out, which is to deprive itself of the possibility of appeal. That's what I'm gonna say, of course he's doing the job. And you could say, "We're not bound by anything anymore."
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Zientarski a question. [[The same question was for Senator Ambrosik.]] The senator would like an answer. There you go. [[Mr. Senator, could you repeat the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u112	There you go. I would like to hear what the discussion on the article looked like. 5 which violates Article in the opinions submitted to the committees and the senators. Two constitutions... [[Okay, Mr. Senator. I remember now.]] ...art. 78 Constitution, Art. 45 constitutions... [[I got it. Thank you.]] ...and art. 77 constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u113	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u114	This problem was not discussed further. However, it is not true that there is no possibility of appealing the resolution of the council. So... [[Effectively.]] Whether this is an effective appeal decides... [[Coincidence.]] ...the Supreme Administrative Court, as well as the President, calling or not a given candidate. So that there is a possibility of cancellation and it will probably be used. [[Mr. Senator, do you have any more questions for the senator?]] I would also like to address the issue of dual citizenship. [[There you go.]] I was misunderstood. It was precisely that this dual citizenship should not affect the judgment of the judge concerned. That's what I'm talking about. I must have been imprecise. This bill... Even recently, such a petition has been made to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions in order to limit the possibility for persons with dual citizenship to perform public offices or public functions. And the committee decided to continue this petition. So, as you can see, even the citizens themselves feel and see this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u115	You're asking Senator Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A question for Senator Ambrosik. Mr. Senator, is it a 50% reduction in the number of cases that will be examined to assess the judge and his caselaw, I repeat, a 50% reduction In your opinion, it brings about a better understanding of this judge, a better assessment, a more comprehensive one or the other? That's the first question. Second question. Sir, are you... That's what the quorum was about. We heard... Can such a situation arise? The press often writes about it. The president and his colleague, also appointed by Minister Ziobra, will the president or vice president meet for coffee and will it be a general assembly? So that's where the quorum's gonna be? Is there, in your opinion, such a possibility as to whether it's a general assembly or a college... This is about college. A resolution... Then why is it even called a resolution? If there is no quorum, then there is no body that can make a collegial decision. Because either we have collegial decisions of a given quorum on behalf of a particular body on whose behalf a resolution is taken, or decisions only of the President or Vice-President. And then you can't call it a resolution of a particular authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u117	Does Senator Czarnobaj have a question for the senator, too? [[No, to Pociej.]] No. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u118	Mr. Marshal, the Senate, as regards the quorum, whether it is possible to issue a resolution... or whether the resolution can be passed by the assembly... Well, the general assembly is a collegial body, and the collegial body makes its decisions in the form of resolutions. Thus, it will be possible to adopt an appropriate resolution as much as possible. You know very well, Mr. Senator, that this provision is being introduced precisely because the quorum at the assemblies is now being broken up and, in fact, cannot be adopted by the assembly... [[And that's why we call it resolutions.]] ...which are crucial, for example, in the context of the conduct of competition proceedings. [[This isn't a resolution...]] As far as this assessment of the candidate is concerned, on the basis of a smaller number of reported cases attached to the... [[A 50% reduction.]] ...half down, from 200 to 100, and the judge's assessment of the Visitor, that's what I've already said. This is a reduction in bureaucracy. And it would be fair to ask whether a candidate should not be judged on the basis of all the cases he has dealt with at all. Well, there's always a number somewhere, and... [[But it was defined.]] Okay, but... [[Gentlemen, let me answer that.]] ...this regulation is also introduced so that the judges of the Visitors, who will also judge the candidate concerned or those cases which will be attached in the run-up to the competition, move to judgment and thus reduce the duration, which you are also asking for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u119	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u120	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, this is a question for you as a man in the industry. The first question concerns the role of prosecutor in this whole trial. The prosecutor gets enormous powers here, the possibility of being active at every stage of the investigation, court proceedings. Tell me if it's good for the citizen from your point of view. Will that shorten the waiting for sentences? Well, I think you'd be more than happy to let them be issued by the D.A. And is that the standard in any of the European countries? Second question, Mr. Marshal, I have a lot to deal with Senator Rulewski as a man who may not have been a prosecutor in his life, but he's had a lot to do with prosecutors. Do you, Senator, view this presence of the prosecutor at every stage as an element beneficial to the citizen, or do you think we are going the other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u121	There you go, Senator Ambrosik first... [[But that was a question for Senator Pociej and Rulewski.]] Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u122	I would just like to point out that normally, with such laws, the rapporteur of the majority is more exercised than the minority, but of course I am at my disposal. [[He's practicing his own.]] I'm at your disposal. Mr. Senator, of course you have to look at this problem completely. I don't know if you remember, but one of the first drafts was a bill that... It was a change in the law about the D.A.'s office that upset the legal community and us here in this courtroom. Of course, it was that fast path, so to speak, demolishing and knockouting. Well, the D.A. was first absolved because there was such a security buffer that whatever this D.A. would do... If he's acting according to the public interest, then he can do virtually anything. And that's actually the cloud of the program. Well, there is no such regulation anywhere. I've never heard of such an idea in democratic countries. The role of the prosecutor has always been very strong. After the fall of communism it was very limited, but in communist times there was quite a lot of respect between prosecutors and defenders. The fact that they've been there on both sides, it did not rule out respect and confidence in these decisions. Very often it was necessary to... After all, the D.A. was the one who decided to make the temporary arrest at the time. And how old lawyers compared those cases to arrest cases, and in 2005 and 2007 there was such automatic inference... Well, the prosecutors said, well, what can I do? I'm not the one who's under arrest, and I have to, because I'm obliged by the Attorney General to file this arrest every time. And the courts said this: since the D.A.'s pressing charges, and I don't have the ability to read all these files, okay, I believe the D.A. And there was even a much worse situation, because it was theoretically given to an independent court, but it was not given to the entire instrumentarium and the prosecution was not obliged to use these arrest applications rationally. So this role has always been very strong, and I think that strengthening it beyond the need is not good for the citizen in any way, because, as a matter of fact, this officer, for example, is a prosecutor, who is in a certain corset, because the prosecution is a hierachized institution, and after all these changes is much more hierarchized and subjected directly to the prosecutor general, who can directly interfere with any investigation... Adding the fact that the prosecutor is a politician is, in my opinion, a solution not the best and too far-reaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u123	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please. [[Mind if I take a seat?]] Please, but briefly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u124	The question is difficult, because I answer to Senator Czarnobay about the impression. It's about my impressions, about how I saw whether I saw the prosecution and its involvement in the rule of law. They were in my life, not too long, three phases. The first was, of course, that the prosecutor was upholding the socialist rule of law. In fact, at the time, there was actually no talk of the courts, not even of the investigative bodies, but of the prosecutor's office, and it was known that when the prosecutor came in, it was already a disaster. The second stage, democratic Poland, in which I had the honour to participate, brought the prosecutor to the level of the parties. Suddenly the role of the court was struck, people became afraid or did not fear that this court would apply criminal sanctions. Now it's stage three, when you don't talk much about courts, the news starts with: Attorney Ziobro or Minister Ziobro has asked for an arrest or a change of sentence. The courts are even worse spoken of than for communes: corruption, kleptomania, cohabitation etc., etc. And today I would be more afraid of the prosecution than in communist times, because then it was known who it was, and here it is in the pen of a democratic prosecutor. So part of the public thinks he's doing the right thing because he has the mandate of a democratic parliament because he's a minister. In fact, I think that this extended function... Although it's not widened, it's only clarified, at least the ministry proves that he's supposed to perform... So far, there has been no mention that on the rights of a party or participant, only that there is... To uphold the rule of law... It can improve the rule of law, especially since not only in courts, but also where public authorities take decisions, provided that this intervention or this presence is based on the rule of law and law, will not be politically controlled.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u125	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u126	Thank you very much. My question is to Senator Ambrosik. It may go beyond this matter, but I think it's connected to it. Senator Comfort has said some things about it. In your last statement, Mr. Senator, speaking about the program and what the Law and Justice have done in terms of judicial change, one of the examples was the reversal of the so-called. reform of Jarosław Gowin, who is, however, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government. Anyway, Senator Ambrozik, when I asked him to calculate what Law and Justice did, he gave it. Well, don't you think, Mr. Senator, that, in this connection, those involved in higher education can live in some anxiety about whether this law that has been introduced recently, which concerns higher education, will not be reversed? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u127	Does Senator Rybicki have a question for Senator Ambrosik, too? No. And Senator Czerwiński has a question for Senator Ambrozik? No. You're still Senator Florek. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u128	Yeah, I can. Then for balance, I'd have a question for Senator Pociej and Senator Ambrosik. [[There you go.]] The Act concerns amendments to 7 laws, 7 different topics. In addition to speeding up staff changes in the Supreme Court, can you, Mr. Senator, point out not a bill, but at least one provision that reforms the justice system? I've been listening for three hours, and I can't find out what an improvement is for the citizens. I'd ask for at least one example from one Senator and one from the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as Senator Libicki's question is concerned, I regret to say, Mr Senator, that you did not listen carefully, because I did not refer to the reform of Minister Gowin, you did so, Senator Pociej. Yeah, well... [[But then...]] No, no, definitely, please... [[...you called for his reform.]] No, I was talking about the adversarial process, no, no, I was just talking about it. About Senator Flork's question... In general, this entire bill, Mr. Senator, is intended to improve the justice system. [[Specifically what?]] There's a line... [[One example...]] All you have to do is open the bill. There are articles on every page, paragraphs that improve justice... [[Thank you...]] ...though allowing judges to be appointed and... [[These are staff changes.]] These aren't staff changes, this is a supplement to the Supreme Court. [[So now...]] No, judges who are now are not replaced by newly appointed judges. So it's not a staff change.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u130	Now we'll ask for a series of questions for Senator Pociej. The first is Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, the provisions of the Act significantly restrict the functions of the judiciary, in particular to the extent that the local government is eliminated from the election of judges in the procedure for appointing judges. This is clearly contrary to the constitution, in particular to the article. Ten who's talking about three divisions of power. The rules on the system of common courts also limit the role of this government in favour of different other solutions, such as the introduction of mandatory voting in the college of courts or the possibility of appointing a deputy spokesperson. I would like to ask you whether there was a debate at the committee on the judiciary and the limitation of its role not only in these large solutions but also in the day-to-day functioning of the common courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u132	Senator Czerwiński, Senator Pociej, too. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u133	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have two questions. The first concerns the subject raised here related to the requirement to have only Polish citizenship. Mr. Senator, this bill is going in the opposite direction, namely it partially abolishes this requirement. Isn't it that this novel allows the possibility No, certain boundaries, of course, possession of double citizenship by judges and asessors? And that's the first line. By the way, Poland has very liberal provisions on the issue of dual citizenship, but it is not necessary to confuse citizenship with membership, belonging to minorities, especially ethnic minorities, because ethnic minorities do not have a country with which to identify, apart from Poland, i.e. in theory, the issue of dual citizenship does not interest them. The second question is related to recent accidents. That is, this law is also partly a reaction. In a small part, but it is On the behaviour of the Supreme Court judges, in particular the retired first president, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf. We saw how she behaved in Germany... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Not retired.]] [[Proceed.]] [[Voice from the room: Ex-girlfriend.]] Retired. Well, maybe I was just speaking a simple language... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, senators, let me ask you a question. The discussion will be here soon.]] Yeah, we'll get to the discussion. Let's get back to the question. I'd like to hear from you what your assessment is. Are these behaviors and abroad, and in Poland This is not anarchising the state, isn't it an attempt to create a parallel state? And how do you think our Supreme Court judges behave this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u134	Does Senator Klein have a question for Senator Pociej, too? [[Senator Pociej and Senator Ambrozik.]] We're just gonna wait a minute, and now we're gonna ask the senator for an answer, 'cause it's gonna cross over too much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First, it was Senator Flork's question, which was also for me. Senator, with my hand on my heart, I can answer this question in such a way that I do not see any change there that will help the citizen. [[Applause]] Once again, to answer the question, I must return to the Minister's statement at the committee meeting. I move on to Senator Czerwinski's question, because there was a suggestion that was made just in the question of Senator Czerwinski... It's just a reaction to a failed approach to taking over the Supreme Court, if that's what we're talking about, about today's bill. It was simply realized that all the changes that would lead to personal changes in the Supreme Court and, in particular, would lead to the removal of the first President of the Supreme Court, through the inability to formulate a previous law, may not have this effect. And that is what the Minister was talking about: since we hear that the judges are announcing that they will submit... and not only will they submit, but will exercise their right to appeal, as every citizen does... So now this announcement means erase this possibility. Well, for me, in my private life, it's like people say, "Ah, now we're going to get compensation from the PZU." And the reaction to that would be this: since PZU is a state company and should not be harmed, the possibility of appealing against the decision to say 'no' is blocked. So just so nothing bad happens to PZU, you have no right to appeal against the decision that you're not getting the money. Well, that's the individual decision that only applies to a certain situation. So that the problem, which I think, has been here many times and which resulted from our frequent outrage, is that we judge many of these submissions at least that's how I personally judge them. As a reaction to the fact that the professional group, which we believe should be independent, will defend itself against becoming dependent. So some solutions are being introduced to... It's kind of like chess: because you can make a move like this here, I'm just gonna take that pawn away from you. And let's keep playing. That's how I evaluate some of the solutions that we're being offered. Now, Senator Rybicki's question. Well, there's a problem, there's a problem. This problem is that we have generally seen for many years restricting the local government and certain tasks of the local government, certain of its rights. Now there's a very serious dispute here. I don't like that word, but it really is. here the fundamental dispute about whether the state should be very strong, but this strength can only be obtained by restricting the rights of individuals or the state to be democratic, and then, of course, it could be said that to some extent it is weaker, because the individual has some chance in dispute with the state apparatus. But all the procedural, material safeguards we have are designed to ensure that in the collision with the entire state apparatus, the citizen has guarantees that allow him to believe that if he is right, he may be right to claim it. That is also why it is enshrined in the Constitution the possibility of appealing. And now we have this situation, that because some professional group wants to take advantage of the law that was written and didn't bother anyone, it's us. Only to take over this institution six months earlier, we say: no, we take it away from you because we have a vision! I believe that this is an unfair approach and that it is not in line with what we have learned about democratic... about procedural guarantees. If... I'm sorry, because I left the theme of self-government. Well, it's a limitation of the self-government we've seen. After all, because it affected the attorney and counsel authorities, a lot of the powers of these local authorities came into the hands of the state... And now it's the judge's turn. And, of course, it can be argued that there is a legal possibility to change something here, but the problem is that it is allowed, but if we talk about a certain spirit of the entire laws on the judiciary, then I believe that it is contrary to the spirit of independence. 'Cause, you know, like... the possibility of a circular vote does not give us the guarantees that have been in this local government so far. I mean, it's minor. And now: if we are talking about this fundamental dispute, then I will stand in the position that the greater weakness of the state is its overpowering, not guaranteeing the unit, because in the end each of us will have a problem with it and everyone, especially... Yes, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, a very often thinking independently a man like you, can also collide with this apparatus. I'm coming to your questions, Mr. Senator. Recipient of Polish citizenship. Your question was whether it was... [[The law reduces these rigors, not increases them. We're talking about this novel. That's why I'm surprised...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I didn't read it and I can't answer you. The discussion at the committee meeting did not indicate in any way that the law would increase it. She's shrinking it, and there's actually some kind of vent. I had the impression that she was reducing them. But I'm not here to argue with you. I can read it again in a moment and possibly answer it, because I don't remember it being like this, not like this. [[That's another question.]] Second question about the anarchy of the state by the judges. I don't know if you can talk about anarchy, Senator. Unfortunately, I need to support myself right now with something that I didn't want to talk about because it has a weak connotation, so please don't go too far, because I'm not attacking anyone here. But you have a countertype described in criminal law, i.e. That's the way it is: you're fulfilling your disposition, the standard of some kind of criminal regulation, but it's not a crime, it's not a criminal offence. There's no penalty for who... It's not criminal. And that's for example. a state of higher necessity. And now: if someone comes to your house and, without showing any documents, says that your tractor is his tractor, and he comes here with a few bailiffs, and you didn't hear him have any convictions, you'll defend yourself. Yes? And you're gonna call the police, you're gonna call the neighbors, they're just stealing from you. If, of course, the problem is that if you attack the Constitutional Tribunal... As long as this Court was not your chosen tribunal, you said: but you cannot speak in your own case. Well, as the Constitutional Tribunal said that two judges were elected illegally, but three under the law, you suddenly jumped out of joy and threw out five. And then, as the Court ruled as to the unconstitutionality of certain actions towards him, you said: right now, right now, the Court, you cannot talk about yourself. Well, that's what happened, Mr. Senator, that's what happened, let's agree, that was the facts, and that's what you said. [[What about the Supreme Court? Because that was the question. Maybe I can help, Mr. Senator. On what grounds can Supreme Court judges rule on the constitutionality of the law? It'll be easier and shorter.]] Mr. Senator, if you... [[They have a duty to apply the constitution.]] They have... [[From the constitution directly.]] First of all... [[Every judge.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Every judge.]] First of all... [[Let the rapporteur answer.]] You're interrupting my... You have, in our view, changed the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal in an unconstitutional way. Please note that no one disputes the choice of these two contested by the States and then by the Constitutional Tribunal granted... And now, if we can claim that the Constitutional Tribunal has been taken over and the majority there has been taken over in an unconstitutional manner, I believe that the Supreme Court judge has not only the right, but also the obligation to But your question was a little different. I see no reason why judges cannot speak categorically about them if they believe that certain actions and laws are contrary to applicable law. And they don't, because they've been taken away by an impartial Constitutional Tribunal... And, of course, from a purely formal point of view, the senator may be right, but it's just not the reasoning you want to make... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...argue in complete isolation from what happened and how it happened to the Constitutional Tribunal. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u136	A supplementary question? But briefly. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u137	You are taking a very dangerous route, namely the combination of this resolution of the Supreme Court and this visit of the unfortunate Mrs Gersdorf in Karlsruhe may suggest that your first President in exile is trying to extend the jurisdiction of the Karlsruhe court, the Karlsruhe tribunal in Poland. I'm sorry, maybe it's out of line... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...but you know, don't go that way. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u138	Mr. Senator, we've changed the formula a little bit... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And that's the subject...]] We changed the formula... Well, we're in a debate... But I, Mr Senator, will conclude this debate because I do not want to develop it, I would like to tell you that, in turn, your question, which abstracts from the fact that Judge Gersdorf went there for a normal scheduled visit, scheduled for a year. It wasn't an event related to her situation, it was only when she was there that she spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen, Senators of the Rapporteurs! I'm talking about Senator Sweaty and Senator Ambrosik. The case concerns the election of the first President of the Supreme Court in the light of the amendment of the laws we are talking about. Does it not seem to you that, unfortunately, these arrangements which are currently in force in this law can also lead to the paralysis of the first president in the future, and that it will be necessary for some time to amend this provision so that the first President of the Supreme Court can be elected? 'Cause it's art. 13 §1 says the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court making the choice referred to in Article. 12 (2), presides over the first President of the Supreme Court and, where this is not possible or where his candidacy has been applied for President of the Supreme Court, the oldest serving as judge. If the first President of the Supreme Court has also been nominated as President of the Supreme Court as the oldest Judge, the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges shall be presided over by the oldest Supreme Court Judge whose candidacy has not been notified. This is the record, and we know about the composition of the Supreme Court at the moment, and what persons can be those potential candidates or chair this election. You're the first president of the court, she's her deputy and she's the next deputy and the oldest intern, which is what this law says. Does this solution, which is in this law, give us a chance to choose... to make sure that this choice is made, or should we redefine this provision so that it can always be possible in the future without problems to elect the first President of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u141	Does Senator Czarnobaj have a question for both senators? [[I'd rather be a sweater.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u142	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Pociej because I know Senator Ambrosik's answer. [[There you go.]] Mr. Senator, I'm going back to the question of the opinion of the National Courts. Answer me, because you're a man who probably knows exactly the details... Please tell me if this is possible: 2 candidates are applying... This is in the context of a reduction in qualifications and requirements, different types of conditions determining who can run. Two candidates are applied. The only merit of the first is a 10-year internship in the district court, and the fact that he has tried to promote 20 times and has not been promoted so far, and he gets a positive opinion, and a judge with very high qualifications, with scientific publications, independent opinion, etc., etc., i.e. one that can be talked about in superlatives alone, gets I didn't get into the details. A negative opinion. He's appealing, I understand, to the administrative court. The one who has been given a positive opinion is called, the other one appeals. Well, there's no room, I understand. He's appealing... I mean, he's running next year and the same situation again. Is such a situation theoretically possible? A situation in which the political KRS will promote its judges, reject those who have scientific achievements, very good opinion, achievements in legal case law, etc., etc., and choose those who have very good political support? Is this scenario possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u143	Now, we're gonna ask Senator Ambrosik to answer one question first, and Senator Comfort will answer both of them later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There is no danger that we will have to re-elect the first President of the Supreme Court. Currently there is no first President of the Supreme Court because of the transition of President Gersdorf to his retirement, and these regulations are precisely designed to enable the election of a new President of the Supreme Court. This will also be possible after the Supreme Court's membership is completed to a minimum of 80 judges who will be able to participate actively in the general assembly, which in turn presents to the President at least 5 candidates for the first President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u145	Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u146	About Senator Kleina's question... Mr Senator, yes, indeed, such an opinion appeared in the media space, and in fact all that you have said can lead to a situation in which, under the letter of law, such a choice will not be possible. What's more, even setting a quorum right now, is a reduction... After all, the required number of judges at the general assembly was also reduced from 110 to 80, so many must be present in order to present these five candidates. The question is now as follows. According to all calculations, 46 old judges remain. If they do not appear at the assembly, then only 76 will be present... [[74.]] 74, I'm sorry, 74. And now... [[There will be an amendment.]] [[It's gonna be...]] ...if we go by the letter of the law, then because clearly someone hasn't read it, then also because of the arguments you were just talking about, and the argument that is also raised, we can actually deal with some rapid amendment. But also, if you look at how extensive interpretation is, you can see different scenarios. But I must also say that these are speculations... [[Exactly.]] ...and so far these are completely new issues, that wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. Now, Senator Blackbay's question. Yes, Mr. Senator, this is the greatest puriazum... [[I've met with the same guy...]] ...because it may happen that there will be a cancellation of this candidate with much higher qualifications. And so far, And here is our dispute, this is what we have talked about many times here, and it was so that until the administrative court gave its ruling, the state of suspension was there. As far as I know, the administrative courts tried pretty quickly... Well, it's about the important interests of the state. The courts ruled in this regard quite quickly. And what happens to a candidate who, after a few months, learns that he was better? Nothing, 'cause the seat's already taken. Because this change, which we are being offered here, results in one thing: that whatever the appeal, the chosen person is appointed as judge. But it's worse... [[Effectively, effectively called.]] [[Not effective.]] But it's worse because it's an appeal... On the basis of this appeal, it may happen that the court will rule that the court has been appointed Inefficiently called, it means that e.g., I don't know, he didn't complete any formality, even though the road was cleared of all the stones, because it is said that not putting any paper together is also not an obstacle, etc. But it's okay. It's hard for me to imagine at the moment a situation that will result in a ruling that this person cannot be chosen. And here we're just getting to a pretty dangerous... i.e. Either way, it's kind of a psychic solution, but here we're dealing with someone who may have been able to rule for six months. And what will suddenly appear, according to the ruling of the administrative court? It's even hard for me to say what, because this is again an example of how it's not about the interests of the justice system, it's about the certainty that this change is going to happen, and then we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u147	You're asking Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u148	Mr. Senator, regarding the questions about the role of prosecutor... [[Which senator?]] Senator Pociej. [[There you go.]] With regard to questions about the role of the prosecutor and the alleged increase in his powers to even monstrous sizes, I would like to ask you a question as an excellent lawyer in practice. Do you not see that this is, in fact, a purely editorial change? Namely in the article. 6, which amends the editorial work of the article. 5 rights about the prosecution by adding a record that the prosecutor may participate in the rights of the party or participant... Previously, it was so that it could participate in those proceedings which are further mentioned there. This is a purely editorial change aimed at exposing the prosecutor to the fact that he is not a party to the proceedings, i.e. he is not the addressee of a decision or any other decision that will take place in the case and therefore only in the rights of the party or participant of the proceedings. And do you admit that so far the prosecutor had the same powers under the article? 7 of the Civil Procedure Code, according to which he may have requested the initiation of proceedings in any case, to proceed to any case except for non-essential cases, e.g. could not bring an action for divorce, which is obvious, as well as having the same powers under the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure? So why are we talking about some sudden extension of the powers of the prosecution?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u149	I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u150	It would be because of what the senator, the patron, said was completely empty. So we could ask ourselves: why is it if it doesn't change anything? I'm not sure she's changing anything, but... I don't know if the senator noticed that I, in answer to this question, mainly focused on the changes in the law on the prosecution's office, which were at the beginning of our term of office, and about this absolution of the prosecutor actually for every delict that could happen to him, on a good basis... Well, in that bill we were talking about right at the beginning... [[Voice from the hall: Public good.]] Yes, the public good, the obscuration of the public interest, the fact that it was in the public interest. And that's what I described as the most dangerous and bizarre event.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u151	Now there are three questions for Senator Ambrozik, one for Senator Pociej. Then I'll ask Senator Rybicki to ask Senator Pociej a question first, since he's already in the podium, and then there'll be questions for Senator Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The question is addressed to both senators. I would like to ask about the effects of international law after the entry into force of this law. You mentioned some of them, Senator Comfort. I would like to ask about the concrete political and legal effects in a situation where we will have to deal with the choice of so-called. the new first President of the Supreme Court, when the international opinion and the Presidents of other national Supreme Courts recognize that President Gersdorf is the rightful President until 2020, i.e. until the end of her term of office. About the consequences of belonging to the National Judicial Council to the family of national judicial councils of other countries... We know that this issue is on the European agenda and perhaps the Polish National Court of Justice will be excluded from the European National Courts. Finally, the third question concerning the possible effects of the situation in which the parties concerned will invoke the incorrect composition of the court as a clear ground for nullity of the judgment, not only in Poland, in the common courts in Poland, but also in European courts. Questions for both gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u153	I'll ask Senators Rulewski and Napieralski for questions for Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u154	Yes, to Senator Ambrozik, to the lawyer, and at the same time to the politician and senator of the rapporteur. How would you feel about a scenario where it's... Today, as the Minister stated, you also confirm this, as you say, is a boycott, but this is, let's say, a refusal to participate in these artificial structures of the KRS and the Supreme Court. So the judges gave a password, a reason for distrust. You claim that this is based on dissatisfied citizens. It has been proven here that it is certainly half the disgruntled who have not won their cases before the courts. I'm saying that even this is a larger number, but let's simplify it. And now I am. The political situation is changing, there is verification in the existing local structures of the courts and there is a reversal of those judges. What's more And worst of all, citizens claim to have lost their trials for political reasons. So doesn't this swing inspire your imagination, Senator, and your desire to avoid it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u155	Thank you. And one last question for Senator Ambrozik. Senator Napieralski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. How do you describe or assess the procedure under which this law is governed, what are we investigating? It's about how it looked in the Seym and how it looked in the Senate. What's your assessment of this, your thoughts on this? I would like to hear what you say about this procedure, about how the committee was convened and how its sitting was held, about what was going on in the Sejm... I'd like it to sound like it's in the transcripts, because one day, when you lose power... Let's see what you guys say about how someone's gonna try this bill in a similar way. And second question, Mr. Senator. Have you been able to read the opinions we have received as committee senators since Monday morning? Could you think about them so that you could vote honestly in committee later?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u157	There are 3, 4 questions for Senator Ambrozik and one question for Senator Pociej. I'd ask Senator Pociej... And then a series of questions for Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there is no doubt to me that in a completely independent way from us Whether it's from the opposition, whether it's from the rulers, we'll be as a country, as a country, pushed somewhere in the periphery of a family of states that refer to the same values in the area of justice. The consequences of this pushing us outside a certain circle of legal culture will be mourned. What you're talking about, I can only confirm. We are talking about the problems of the new KRS in getting any international legitimacy. And this is obviously not going to be a one-off event, and it's going to be a process, and the individual components of this process and the assessment of our partners... so that they're still government partners, but these are institutions that are independent of their governments. Therefore, even if the Conservatives and the government in Poland rule in England, they could expect the English government to support their actions, the English Government, even the most friendly, will have nothing to say here. More than that, he will not dare to say anything to his courts, which will act on the basis of their discernment, completely unrelated to political decisions. This, as I said, can have very negative consequences for every citizen in Poland, because not recognizing our system as law-abiding and corresponding standards that have been adopted in the European Union... I'm a member, a delegate... I participate in the work of the Council of Europe. There is a very negative report on the state of the rule of law in Poland. It's all pouring out. After all, we have obligations arising from international agreements, from the accession treaty, etc., etc. It's just been signed. The old pacta sunt servanda rule has to work both ways. In a moment, regardless of any political will, it may turn out that our justice system will be isolated. And it will be the first step towards finding us either in the outskirts of Europe or in general near Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u159	Senator Ambrosik is responding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the international impact of these laws is concerned, I would just like to remind you that the issue of judicial regulation is aimed at specific Member States. As far as the Treaties are concerned, they do not result in any obligation to shape justice. This is freely shaped by Germany, which allows judges to belong to political parties, the Spanish, whose national judicial council is mostly appointed by parliament, or the Portuguese, who in turn form the judicial council in such a way that a minority has judges in it. As far as the European Network of Judicial Councils is concerned, of course, a meeting of the National Judicial Council was held with representatives of the European Network. They accepted the arguments presented by the national council. I think the judges who showed up at the meeting didn't know that before. It is, of course, difficult for me to determine whether the European Network of Councils of Courts will exclude the Polish National Courts, but the discussion itself was substantive. I think that some of the arguments will certainly be taken into account by the European Network of Judicial Councils, for example in the context of documents issued by that network in the past. With regard to the wrongfully elected composition of the court and the appeal, it's... [[Wrongly chosen squad.]] Inappropriately chosen. Who determines whether it's right or not? I understand that... that's where the words come from. I really don't care about that. The judges of yours and ours. Well, if these are ours, I'm talking about this handful, this 20. Does that mean the other judges are your judges? Well, ladies and gentlemen, really... [[They should be impartial, independent.]] When it comes to refusing to participate in competitions concerning the Supreme Court or the National Judicial Council, that is not true. There are candidates. The National Judicial Council was elected, and the judges applied for these competitions. As far as the Supreme Court is concerned, it appears from the media that 44 nominations are already announced at almost 60. So that it's not true that there are no such candidates. Of course, there is also great pressure from the environment not to participate actively in these competitions. Well, I don't know if it's good for justice and Poles. [[Bad.]] Yeah, those pressures are definitely bad. [[It's not pressure, it's just...]] As for the question of Senator Napieralski, I agree with you, Senator, that projects should generally be carried out slower, with a greater analysis of the problems presented in these projects, but the situation is as it is. The Supreme Court doesn't work at this point, there are no judges in the Supreme Court, and this is something that needs to be addressed. This reform must therefore be completed. For the sake of justice as a whole, such a state cannot last longer than it could... [[And who led to this condition?]] ...to last longer a state associated with the KRS, causing in fact the inability to convene a meeting. The Supreme Court should work, the newly appointed chambers should work, and this law is therefore aimed at the effective implementation of the reform. As regards the opportunity to get acquainted with opinions, I think of course also taking into account that on Mondays there are usually senators' or senator's appointments in our offices. That at least part of the senators be Maybe she couldn't read these opinions, they were generally available. Of course, I'm not questioning that one or the other senator couldn't get to know them, but they were available. They were not extensive. If I remember correctly, they were counting 6, 7 pages, so I think if someone wanted to, they could definitely read them. And in the vote, we will certainly refer to what was written there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u161	Thank you. You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u162	I'd like to ask Senator Ambrozik if he's ever heard of people being faithful to certain values. Because you say there's pressure on judges not to submit their candidacy to the National Court of Justice so they don't submit their candidacy to the Supreme Court. And that's the rhetoric I remember from the regime television at the PRL... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] Wait, I'll finish with the question. ...when they were translated from the screens, why artists boycott the military york. Oh, because there's environmental pressure on them not to perform in theaters so they don't participate in this renewed political life of ours. Have you ever heard of people being faithful to the values in which they grew up, in which they were educated, in which, moreover, they gained professional sands? Because if the average age among Polish judges is 37 years, then any nonsense about any contamination of the Polish People's Republic is, of course, an invention of propaganda. These are people who were educated by independent Poland in the spirit of judicial independence and independence of courts. And that's the profile they're just representing. [[Those aren't questions.]] [[Senator, please come to the bleacher.]] Well, let's get this straight. [[But have you formulated the question, Senator?]] I'll repeat the argument that just like you lost... [[Senator, you don't have to say that again. I...]] ...27 to 1, you lost 10,000 to 18 when it comes to KRS. [[Mr. Senator!]] Haven't you ever heard of it? I'm gonna repeat the second question. The fact that people can be faithful to their own views and their own values?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u163	Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, of course I heard. The question now needs to be asked who is faithful to their values in this whole procedure. For, do those who have allowed the judge who has committed the theft keep the values on which they have sworn? [[Faithful to what?]] [[Mr. Senator!]] The judges should be impeccable in character. Have the judges who met in your party's office, Mr. Senator, respected these standards, these values? Are they loyal to these values of apoliticity? Well, tell me. Answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u165	Mr. Senator, short answer, no other rhetorical reasoning. [[Of course I do.]] [[And another minister met with the judge.]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] You're asking Senator Napieralski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, before I ask a question... [[At the party headquarters...]] [[Listen to the question.]] Before I ask you a question, Mr. Senator, I would like to thank you for saying that this procedure adopted by the Law and Justice Club is quick and extraordinary. But I would also like to remind you, Mr Senator, that this procedure has been implemented in the case of many important laws since 2015. If we reached the history of Polish parliamentarianism, especially after 1989, it would turn out that you are world champions when it comes to speeding up these laws, fundamental laws for the Polish state. And I find it hard to believe what you're saying that there was a sudden emergency, and it was the law that needed to be speeded up. Because it happens all the time. I'm not talking about the I.P.N. Act, which was at an express rate... [[That's an opinion, Senator. Ask me a question.]] But this is an introduction to the question, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] I have a minute for this, so I'm using it according to my law. My question is as follows, Senator. How can you imagine the solid work of the Senator of the Republic of Poland when documents are received an hour and a half before the committee meeting? Even being in Warsaw... If the document of our Legislative Office has several pages, including a dozen proposals for amendments, how do you think the senator, the politician, is to prepare us for a rational, fair, honest and substantive discussion of the bill? Is it just that an order comes that it has to be done, and the party that governs this order executes it? Because that's what it looks like today. I ask for such an honest answer, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u167	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Sir Senator, I'm not following anyone's orders. Such a procedure is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as President Mammoth informed you. With regard to the question of getting acquainted with opinions, yes, the opinion of the Legislative Office has several pages, but a few of these pages, however, set out the objectives of the law. The proposals for amendments, as far as the Legislative Office is concerned, our senate, were, I guess, as far as I can remember... Six, right? I think it's okay... You're an experienced senator, an experienced parliamentarians, former party leader, so I'm sure you could have read it in half an hour and made up your mind. Nevertheless, I agree with the fact that it would be worthwhile for the laws to be dealt with in a slightly slower way. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u168	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Please, Mr. Senator Napieralski and Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Ambrozik and Senator Pociej. Now that Senator Ambrosik's on the stand, I'll take it. Mr. Senator, here's the question. You're an experienced politician of the ruling party, also a person who graduated from law school, so I'd like to meet you, since you've read the document... This is not a few pages, but a dozen, and it is a dozen proposals for amendments prepared by our Legislative Office, which is something that actually supports us, the senators, in the work of the committee. Would you please respond and tell me what your opinion is on page 9 and page 10 of this opinion, where it is very specific... I do not want to say that the allegations; these records are really about certain inconsistencies or inconsistencies of the rules you are proposing with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? And I'm gonna have to direct a question to Senator Pociej right away so that we don't speak again. [[Well, well, well.]] Mr. Senator, I'd like to go back to that earlier question about how to prepare, how to process... I don't want to say it anymore because you heard it. I'd like to hear your opinion on this, Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u170	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal. Later, Senator Blackbay? Good. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u171	Question for the rapporteur of the majority, Senator Ambrozik. Mr. Senator, what is the ratio legis of changing the law about the prosecution, that is, this article. Five? If it's like a law-educated Senator from PiS says... [[Quiet.]] Senator Silence, of course. ...that this recipe is basically the same as the previous one, what's the ratio of legis of this change? I am not a lawyer, I am a simple historian by education, therefore I would ask for an explanation and a reminder of what the previous provision was, i.e. the rule that was in force before 2016, when the Law on the Prosecutor's Office changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u172	Is it over, Mr. Marshal? [[Thank you, yes.]] Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal, a question for Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, it's like supplementing the question you asked Senator Napieralski. The Senator rapporteur of the majority says that everything is okay, according to the rules. Yeah, but it confirms... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm just saying what the senator said. But even if you assume, hypothetically, that it's in accordance with the rules of procedure, then... My question is this. Mr. Senator, this is the bill. Do you know, for example, the democratic states in which, in one day, in one night, this kind of legislation takes place in a week? What is the procedure in other countries? ♪ In what time ♪ It's happening, how's it going? Maybe you could bring it up to speed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I suppose, but I'd like to hear from Senator Pociej... [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] Of course, I do not count countries such as Hungary and Turkey.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the questions are to be addressed in the course of the committee's meeting, not in loose diwagations or in the knowledge of the senators. I understand that the knowledge of Senator Pociej, Senator Ambrozik, is enormous because they're both lawyers, but we're here to discuss this bill and what happened at the committee meeting. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I justify myself and make an argument? Mrs. Marshal, the essence of the matter is the writing, while the system of making this law is also...]] Okay, I understand what you're saying. Thank you very much... [[...an important element in my decision whether I vote in favour or against.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Ambrosik, and then you're Senator Alexander Pociej. I'm asking you gentlemen to limit yourselves to what happened at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As for the question of Marshal Borusewicz, I would say that the ratio legis is indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, to the draft law, at the level of the Sejm. Current wording of the article. 5 the law on the prosecution does not give reason to believe that, in certain cases, the prosecutor acts as a party or a party to the proceedings and is not merely a passive observer, and it is therefore problematic for the prosecutor to take effective procedural action in such situations since the nature of his participation has not been clearly defined. The designers also point to Article. 7 constitutions, the principle of legalism, and this justifies the remodeling of this article. 5. This serves to eliminate any doubts arising in this regard as to the involvement of the prosecutor in cases and to equip the prosecutor with procedural legal instruments which will have a real impact on the course and shape of such proceedings. This is the justification of the designers. As regards the question of Senator Napieralski, the request to express my opinion on the proposals made by the Legislative Bureau, I can say that I, when answering your questions, actually answered these reservations of the Legislative Office. I can do it again if you want. But I can express my opinion, in principle, in the debate, because the committee did not deal with my opinion on the amendments proposed by the Bureau. But of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u176	Thank you very much. Do you have anything else to add, Senator? [[No.]] Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Napieralski's question about mode of operation. Mr. Senator, as short as I can. The fact that once again we do not have the possibility to reflect on laws concerning the de facto state system, is that these successive laws are not socially consulted... Well, of course they don't have to, we're dealing with some rules on the formal side... But if we were to talk about whether, from an interest point of view, the procedure adopted by the current majority is appropriate, I can say that I do not. Because the fact that we have in theory 2, 3 days and very often we haven't had that time, very often it went straight from the Sejm Of course, it affects the quality of our work. The fact that legislators, considering such complex problems, with consequences not only in terms of Polish law, but also in terms of legal relations with foreign countries... It's not for proper legislation. I have already talked about this, we had a very clear example of this when we tried earlier, when the proposals of the Legislative Office's amendments were rejected, at some stage, they were defined by the Ministry of Justice as completely pointless and having no impact at all, and then by the same Ministry or by the subsequent designers, the applicants were submitted identical wordings, identical entries which had previously been denied. It just indicates what mode it is. As for page 9 of our Legislative Bureau's opinion, that's where the charges are raised, Mr. Senator, very serious. I'll quote it. The above assessment That's a negative assessment. The fact that the candidate for the post of Supreme Court Judge, in respect of which the Council has not decided to present a request for appointment to the President of the Republic of Poland, which will obtain a positive decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, is, as a matter of fact, automatically a participant in another nomination procedure aimed at filling a free judicial position in the Supreme Court, does not contradict the fact that the candidate for the position of Supreme Court has decided not to submit a motion for appointment to the President of the Republic of Poland. First, there is no guarantee that, at the date of the Court of Appeal's recognition of the resolution of the National Judicial Council as unlawful, any proceedings will take place concerning the appointment to serve as a Supreme Court Judge. And it is further that: the provisions of the Act may be assessed as breaching the standards of the Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the principle of a democratic rule of law, from which it is traditionally produced, among others. prohibition of the creation of apparent solutions. Well, it's written right here, and it turns out in all opinions that it's apparent that the candidate can appeal. And coming back... We were talking about the justification here. I have a reason, a print that appeared in the Seym. I ask the High House, on 10 pages of this justification, there is not a single word on the most important changes made to this law. In general, the project was called at that stage: changing the law about the prosecutor's office and some other laws. And what do we read as the most important, on the front page of the justification? The most important systemic solution that was adopted under the Public Prosecutor's Office Act was the abolition of the solution that the Public Prosecutor General's Office was held by the Minister of Justice. On the 10 pages of the justification that appeared in the Seym there is not a single word about the most important problem that is solved by these laws. I do not believe that this is a fair legislative approach to Members and Senators, because this is an attempt to hide the most important issue somewhere between the cards. Not only by name, but also by way of presentation is not shown what is most important in this law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I ask, Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator...]] [[But the senator didn't answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u178	Do you have anything to add about Senator Blackbay's question? I think the senator answered very widely. [[I'd like to ask you one small question.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I think I answered Senator Czarnobaj's question...]] I think you've responded, too, and it's extensive. [[But I understand he wants to ask...]] [[I'd like to ask you one small question. Ask around.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, those last few sentences you said were pretty important, which is very important and... I would like to put the question well. Well, is it possible to conclude that the applicants or those who prepared this bill were trying to mislead us by hiding all the details... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...be all that's hidden in that explanatory statement? [[Mr. Senator, you're asking about the senator's private opinions.]] Mrs. Marshal, there's only one thing I'd like to say. I didn't have time... I didn't get an answer at the committee meeting, I didn't have time to read the documents, the committee meeting was convened on Monday morning, and today is Tuesday. We work in really urgent mode, and the bill is really fundamental. I can't ask questions, I can't find out... I'm about to vote on this bill. So where do I ask? In the clowns, Mrs. Marshal? [[Mr. Senator, very briefly...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u180	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u181	Looking at how this was presented, I feel that it was wanted to have a second debate about something that was much less important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u182	Thank you for answering that question for expressing your own impression. Are there any more questions? Yes, they're here to see the senators of the rapporteurs. Good. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Klich. [[Mr. Senator...]] Question for Senator Ambrosik, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u183	Yes, to Senator Ambrosik. I didn't just ask you about the ratio legis, but I wanted you to remind me of the recipe for the 1990 D.A.'s office... if you don't mind, in general... Do you remember? If you remember... Because he'd like to compare both of these laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u184	Mr. Senator, let me ask you, was this mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u185	Well, that wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. But, Mr. Marshal, you can open rules online, they're there, you can just compare it yourself. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[I see. Thank you very much.]] ...I don't have to quote it or look for it here as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u186	Thank you very much. Senator Klich... [[I understand. A lot of things can be found on the Internet, but...]] Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome... [[...questions are for something, just to get information...]] Mr. Senator Klich. [[...wider than on the Internet.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u187	I have a question for Senator Rulewski. I remember our committee meeting yesterday and the senator there was talking about the quorum problem. Indeed, I later wondered whether I knew any institution, any collectiveity in which decisions would be made democratically and there would be no quorum. Indeed, as the second meeting is called for, it is sometimes either the quorum is reduced or the quorum is not necessary, but the quorum is always there within the first deadline. I do not know any democratic institution in which there would be no quorum. I would like Senator Rulewski to refer, on a comparative basis, to this provision of the Act which states that a quorum in the event of a general assembly of district and appeal judges may not be present.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u188	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Mr. Mieczysław Augustyn, Mr. Senator... [[A question for Senator Ambrosik.]] To the senator... [[...Ambrosica...]] Ambrose? Good. [[...the reporters.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u189	In the light of this change in the law on the prosecution, Mr. Senator, the courts will have to notify... and the administrative authorities... will the administrative authorities have to notify the prosecution of the pending proceedings, and the courts of... no, the courts of the pending cases, because it does not concern criminal matters, but others in which the prosecution may also enter as an active party to the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u190	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u191	I would like to hear whether you have discussed the provisions of the Act which confer on the Presidents of the District Courts the competence to entrust the functions of the Chairs of the Departments and to determine the division of activities in these courts? What is the purpose of this change, and what will this have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u192	Senator Terminski. Mr. Senator, are you ready to ask a question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u193	I'd like to ask Senator Pociej a question. Colleagues Alexander, I would like to hear a few sentences about how the role of the judges' colleges in the context of the changes proposed in the bill, relating to appeals, procedures of appointment, the functioning of the colleges of judges, is changing in your opinion. Because it's quite detailed in the bill, and I'd like to know what this will have to do with the judge's independence, in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u194	Thank you very much. Please, senator rapporteur of the majority, and then senator Rulewski and senator pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As for the question of Marshal Borusewicz, Mr Marshal, in general, the issue of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office was not raised at all at the committee meeting, no one asked. So I would possibly ask the Minister to respond to the doubts that the marshal has about this bill. As for the second question, I think it's Senator Augustine, the article... Tell me what article the amended bill is about. Specifically.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u196	The one who gives the Presidents of the regional courts competence to entrust the functions of the Chairs of the departments and to determine the division of activities in those courts. I don't remember the number exactly, but that's the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u197	Do you have anything to add, Senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u198	This will improve the operation of the regional courts. It should not be that the President of the regional court has absolutely no influence on what is happening in his court, because he is responsible for this court and for the efficiency of this court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u199	Thank you very much. Do you have anything else to add? No. Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski, and then Mr. Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator Klich! [[Mr. Senator, you answer...]] I've used it so far... [[He's asking a question.]] [[You're asking a question?]] No, I'm answering the question. [[Do you answer from your seat? Yes?]] Yes. It's a custom. Right? [[Come to the podium. I'm sorry, sir, but I don't know the habit, Senator. Maybe I'm not in the Senate long enough.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes. You're very young, so... Before you was Marshal Sewerinski and he even called for it to improve the trial. But I'm succumbing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Klich! The Quorum is above all such a dimension of the legality of decisions taken by economic, social and political communities. It is also a measure of representativeness of resolutions. What else is a resolution taken, as Senator Zientarski said, somewhere on the side, by a circle of friends of the organization, and otherwise a resolution taken openly, in the presence of most of the participants of the community. There is a variation to dictatorships, where decisions were taken by one person or, for example, by one person. in the company of a political office. I'm sorry there's a historical reflection here. As it turned out later, Poland changed with the departure of the first secretary. That's what we want to avoid. People in those days were expecting a change from the first secretary. They did not expect to change the party's resolutions, but to change the first secretary, because he had authoritarian authority. Quorum is also an element of the resilience of the organization, which is a community. A Community capable of taking action with a high degree of representativeness. So there's a warning here for all these... If resolutions are passed against someone or for something... it's worth more than one vote or a few votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u201	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator! To answer that question, I will use the Supreme Court's opinion. I must admit that the first sentence of that opinion states that, in principle, the proposed circular voting institution by the members of the college of courts deserves a positive assessment. What did he say and what he wrote... But then there are some criticisms. We read further in this opinion of the Supreme Court that it would seem appropriate to indicate in the rule the categories of cases in which a round voting can be ordered, because This should not apply to all matters, nor should it apply to the most important matters. But there is a bigger problem, this opinion points to a bigger problem with regard to the article. 35 §7. The proposal to remove from this article at least half of all members of the district magistrates' assembly for the adoption of resolutions by this assembly must be assessed in a negative way... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Quiet, please.]] It should be pointed out that the assembly of the judges of the district is an organ of the judiciary, and therefore the resolutions taken by it should be the vote of the majority of the judges forming the district. The proposed amendment could lead to a situation in which the resolutions of the assembly will be adopted by several judges of the district concerned. To answer your question on the basis of this opinion, it seems that the proposed provisions will have a negative impact on the voice and strength of the judiciary, and will also lead to the fact that this vote may cease to be the unified voice of the majority of the environment, but it will only be the opinion of a few judges, which in no way will have the same importance as the voice of the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u203	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Minister, you're... [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Senator Terminski. Excuse me? [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Would you like to ask me another question? [[I just asked first.]] And where have you been so far, Senator? [[I've been waiting my turn.]] [[The voice from the hall: He was sitting quietly...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u204	I have a fundamental question and to the rapporteur, and to the Member... excuse me, to the rapporteur and to Senator Pociej as rapporteur for minorities. I was approached with this question by many people who are working today and in the judiciary, and in the prosecutor's office, paying attention to the 2 entries that were included in the draft laws, and pointing to the non-compliance of these provisions with the article. 32 Constitution, which refers to the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of age. In the legislation we have introduced a restriction on the possibility of carrying out judicial and prosecutorial applications up to the age of 35, plus appears, as I understand it, a project of a new institution A supplemental application for people not older than 40 years of age. In the meantime, it turns out that today in the judiciary, many people performing functions, whether in court or in the D.A.'s office... [[Mr. Senator, these questions have already been answered several times.]] But I didn't hear the answer. [[Well, then you should've attended the meeting. Because these questions have been raised several times...]] [[You should have been in the O.R.]] So I can't ask that question? [[...and they were answered. Well, like this...]] I'd like to ask... [[But we don't know what the senator's question is.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I haven't finished the question yet. [[Mr. Senator, finish that question.]] I'd like to ask... [[Do you have any more... yes, please.]] What makes you so different, 35 and 40? I am already overlooking the question of whether or not it is compatible with the Constitution, because it is not for us to rule on it. But why such diversity?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u205	Good. Thank you very much. It's been a minute. Are there any more questions, ladies and gentlemen? Because the minister's here, and I think he'd like to take the floor, too. Please, are there any more questions from the senators? You're welcome. I don't see any calls. There you go, Senator, and then we will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there was a speech about this... [[Oh, that's right.]] This was raised at a committee meeting, raised this issue several times, and the Minister replied. And we have not received a concise, binding answer from the Minister about what he thinks about the constitutionality or the unconstitutionality of this record. As far as justification is concerned, the justification was that if we allow people over the age of 35, 40 to be admitted to work, they, with today's limitations of up to 65 years of age and in general restrictions resulting from retirement age, acquire very high pension rights, after a rather short period of ruling, and that is the ratio legis of this solution. But we haven't asked what the Minister thinks about whether it's constitutional or not. [[Thank you very much...]] So I think there'll be an opportunity to ask the Minister. [[I'd like to ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u207	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law was introduced by Members. Is the government representative...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I just wanted to complete... Literally one sentence. My question is this... ♪ 'Cause people are me ♪ That's what they're asking. What will happen to those people who are more than 35 or 40 at the time of the Act's entry into force? They're gonna have a closed path in the field? And what, they're gonna be fired from the D.A.'s office and the courthouse? [[On the contrary.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u209	Senator, there will be a chance to ask this question to the Minister in a moment. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Minister, please take the floor. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you very much...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm very sorry, Minister, but...]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u210	After the Minister's speech, I'd like to make a deposit. At once, now a formal request to close the list of submitted speakers and limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. [[We're voting.]] After the Minister's statement, of course. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u211	Again. Say it again. After the Minister's speech... [[After the Minister's speech, I formally request that the list of speakers be closed and that the speaking time be reduced to 5 minutes.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u212	I'm filing a counterclaim. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I object! [[Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Do you want to file a counterclaim?]] Yes, I'm filing a counterclaim. This request should be made after the Minister's statement, but I am filing the counterclaim. There is a repeat of the scandalous situation in this Senate where we are denied the opportunity to speak. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u213	Good. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's been a formal motion... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Senator Martynowski's formal request was to close the list of speakers and limit the discussion to five minutes. It is against the proposal, so we put this proposal to a formal vote. You're welcome. Who among you is in favour of this request to... [[You mean we can't ask questions?]] There will be questions. It's a matter of discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This concerns the discussion, the closure of the list submitted for discussion and the limitation of the discussion to 5 minutes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We vote in favour of Senator Martynowski's request. Limiting the list of speakers and limiting the speaking time to 5 minutes. Who's in favor of Senator Martynowski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 67 senators voted, 44 for, 21 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] Senator Martynowski's motion was accepted. The list of speakers will be closed... [[Applause]] ...and the speeches will be limited to 5 minutes. [[Can you close the discussion before it starts?]] Mr. Senator, would you like to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u214	Yes, I'd like to make a formal request for a hearing. After the Minister's speech and after the senators asked the Minister's questions Also the Ombudsman, Mr Bodnar, who is with us and who represents as important an office as the Vice Minister of Justice. I'm filing a formal request for the possibility... [[Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator!]] ...to hear from the Ombudsman. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u215	In a moment, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Senator Martynowski's motion was not about your spokesperson's speech, so your spokesperson will speak after you. [[Ooh, great.]] [[Voice from the room: But why do you...]] [[He's a marshal.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u216	I would like to say once again that Senator Klich is filing an incorrect formal motion. I would very much like to encourage the senator, the president of the club... Well, you represent the club. For God's sake, read the rules for once, read the rules and... [[You calm me down, but...]] [[Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, ……]] [[You calm me down, Mr. Marshal...]] But don't interrupt me! [[Oh, I think you're going too far.]] Nobody should be interrupted, sir! You're just embarrassing yourself! [[Gentlemen!]] [[And you take the floor...]] And Mr. Civic Platform... [[Gentlemen!]] [[And in what mode does the marshal speak?]] I'm taking... But, sir, you don't take away my voice. Your marshal gave me the floor! [[I'm asking you.]] [[Excuse me.]] You're just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u217	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal... [[Well, you're discrediting...]] Excuse me! Excuse me! [[...discredit your group.]] [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club chant: Freak!]] Excuse me, please be quiet! Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not treat the senator's voice... [[Did Senator Rulewski introduce himself at the moment? I'm sorry, I didn't see...]] ...as a formal application, because what you've filed... [[I...]] Excuse me! Excuse me. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Order!]] Excuse me, who's in charge? Excuse me, I didn't give you the senator's voice. [[Applause]] I didn't give the senator the floor. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, I didn't take this as a formal application because it doesn't fit in the catalogue of formal applications. You took the floor asking for your spokesperson to come forward. Mr. Spokesman will come forward because the motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...senator Martynowski's formal proposal did not include the exclusion of your spokesperson from this debate. [[He's responding.]] [[Voice from the room: Yet, yet...]] Excuse me? What were you gonna say? [[All I'd have to do is ask your marshal not to tell some people.]] [[Voice from the room: I agree.]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this part of the discussion. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The presentation will be brief due to the fact that the time is quite late, the emotions, I see, are growing in the room, and in this first round, which supposedly lasted 5 hours, in all ways, I think, senators, three senators have answered the questions that have been asked here in this room. I just briefly, on behalf of the government, would like to point out that this law seems to be a very reasonable proposal, a more technical than political submission, a submission which addresses problems in the functioning of common courts, the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. As regards the compatibility or non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of this law, neither the Minister of Justice nor the Deputy Minister, but only the Constitutional Tribunal, can express itself and therefore I will not speak on this subject. I am convinced that there is no doubt here, there should be no doubt, but if the Constitutional Court finds otherwise, well, it is the only authority which is called to do so: not the common courts, not the Supreme Court, but only the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, if your marshal expects me to answer... [[Yes.]] ...for specific questions, I'm available as long as it takes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand, because there are senators here who want to ask questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome... Are you Senator Duda? [[There isn't.]] You're not a senator, so you're Marshal Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal. Then you're Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u220	Thank you. Minister, the bill is very extensive and complicated, it covers several spheres, because also the prosecutor's office, the Supreme Court, common courts. In this connection, I ask the question: has the draft law been prepared in the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go. Three people each, and then there'll be answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you wanted to say that this bill is rather a technical solution that improves the amended laws. I would like to ask the senator in the context of many opinions that the limitation of the role of the judiciary is contrary to the constitution and this provision that speaks about the three divisions of power It is more technical or more political to limit the influence of the judiciary on the decision-making of judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u223	Excuse me, Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to add to the question of Marshal Borusewicz... It is not only about whether this bill was created in the Ministry, but also whether the staff of the Ministry or the Minister as a person who knows the matter from the lining worked on the bill when it was created, whether it was merely by Members, and the Minister expresses his opinion here. That's the first question. And the other. Minister, in addition to the opinions we have discussed here today, the Supreme Court and other institutions, has been ordered by you or by the authors by any constitutionalist opinion. A constitutionalist or a constitutionalist's team The draft of this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u225	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u226	Thank you very much. To answer your senators' questions as best as I can, I will say yes. The project is a parliamentary project, it was not written in the Ministry of Justice. If it were written in the Ministry of Justice, it would be a government project. Therefore, it seems obvious. The question of limiting the influence of the judiciary on decisions concerning courts or judges. Is it a technical issue or is it an important, fundamental issue that raises questions about constitutional compatibility or non-constitutionality? High Izbo, in this project there is no limitation of the influence of the judiciary on decisions concerning the court or judges. There is only a rule from which it is possible to interpret the standard according to which the designers proposed and the Sejm passed a waiver of the quorum. Resignation of quorum is, of course, a technical issue. And as a result, I have explained many times on various occasions. I will also explain now the need to abolish the quorum. Unfortunately, some judges do not exercise the powers conferred on them by the legal system in force because they do not attend meetings of the relevant court or assemblies of a given appeal or district. What's causing this? This causes obstruction in the court's activities. This obstruction, of course, directly hits the courts, and also indirectly at the judges themselves, because it is impossible to even give an opinion on the candidate for a judge's position if there is no college and there is no opinion of the assembly. If the judges do not want to come, and there is a quorum, and they will not choose a college or they will not want to come to the meeting and they will not give an opinion on the candidate for the judge's position, then there will simply be no judge. So, of course, it hits the courts, it hits the judges themselves, because they add work, because no one comes to help them, but, above all, it hits the citizens, because citizens expect a smooth recognition of cases that affect the courts, and the vital interests of citizens concern them. Therefore, in fact, the alternative that appears in this situation is either: or we are eliminating completely the judiciary... Well, if the judges don't want him, he can be eliminated, but, I understand, the designers didn't want to do it, seeing the value in the existence of a judge or... This, of course, is not my role, this is the role of a completely different body, i.e. disciplinary representatives. Discipline attorneys chase all judges who do not come without justification to the meetings and judicial assemblies, because they are a disciplinary delicacy intended not to perform a statutory obligation. And the legal obligation under the law on the system of universal courts is that if you are a member of a meeting or a member of a convention, you are to appear. If you don't stand up, it's a disciplinary measure. I do not know if such a solution would be acceptable, especially if it were to take on a massive scale, but this is of course my view, it is not an initiative of the Ministry of Justice, we are not disciplinary agents. On the issue of opinion, of course, we, as the Ministry of Justice, did not consult any constitutionalists on this law. And if they were consulted by the Members who signed the project, I do not know. Thank you. [[Doesn't that interest you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u227	Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal... excuse me, Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes? I'm listening, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u228	I would like to ask the Minister to answer my first question. Minister, because your Marshal's question was this: did the bill come into being in the Ministry? The Minister said no. And I expanded it. It was not created in the Ministry, but I would like to know whether Members of the Ministry were involved in the formation of this law and whether representatives of the Ministry were involved. These are two different... in the drafting of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u229	Good. Thank you. Is there anything the Minister would like to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u230	I do not know where this project was created and how Members managed to develop it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u231	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal... no... Minister, let me ask you one more time. I'd like a moment of concentration, if you don't mind.]] Mr. Senator, but the Minister has already answered your question. [[He didn't answer.]] [[He didn't answer like he wanted.]] If you want to repeat the same question... [[No, I want to expand it.]] If you want to ask the others, you have to sign up and wait calmly... [[No, no, Mrs. Marshal, it's the same thing, but it's like...]] ...for your turn. [[Asking the Minister to answer...]] The Minister has already answered that question. Is that so, Minister? Do you have anything else to add? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, I answered as best I could.]] [[Don't be boring.]] [[Then I'd like you to write me down.]] Good. Put the senator on the list. [[You were running away from that answer, that's all.]] Mr. Senator Duda. Mr. Senator, would you like to ask a question? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal to the question, too... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u232	Thank you very much. I would like to ask what is the position of the Minister and the Ministry as regards the opinion of the Supreme Court President, Judge Józef Iwulski, who says that this law is an extreme example of the instrumental use of the right to achieve ad hoc political goals and is an example of the rule of law rather than the rule of law. And how does the Ministry of Justice refer to this opinion? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u234	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, we all know in this Chamber that it is primarily about removing your current first President of the Supreme Court from office. I have a question for you. As the Journal of the Legal Gazette reports, Prof. Manowska is after talking to Minister Ziobro about her candidacy as President of the Supreme Court. And now my question: how does the Ministry know that the professor, first of all, will go to the Supreme Court, second of all, will be one of the five people who will be presented to the president... [[Senator, but this line...]] Please? [[I don't think that's relevant to this bill.]] Well, it does, it does, especially... [[You're already talking about personalities.]] Because this is about the Supreme Court President. [[You're talking about personalities, and the bill hasn't been passed yet.]] No. This is about the President of the Supreme Court. That's why... [[Senators Platforms have a press release.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Finish the question.]] Will you answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u235	Senator Zientarski. [[Then sign me up again.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u236	Mr. Minister, you said that this bill is responding to technical problems. I will ask: who created such a legal situation that this is how laws need to be introduced? After all, the Supreme Court acted, had very good results against the European background, acted smoothly. And second question. Why is the Minister of Justice not interested in the constitutionality of this law in the context of a constitutional opinion? I remind you, Minister, that every lawyer and even every citizen has a duty to apply the constitution directly. And even more so, every court, even more so the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u237	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Question with the thesis, but resulting from the reference to the opinion which the Supreme Court formulated, and you signed the President of Iwulski. The fact that the law is an instrument for achieving the objectives of those who constitute the law is truism. It's hard to deny, it's kind of the basis of parliamentarians, and I don't think we're gonna be discussing it here, because the senators know it better than I do, because I'm not a politician. Whether or not it is considered instrumental, it is a matter of judgment. I wouldn't dare use that kind of pejorative term on this project. Apparently, Judge Iwulski's sensitivity is different. And maybe so much about it. To the topic of these fake news, Minister Ziobro probably used this term correctly. It is difficult for me to respond, especially since nothing in this project is referring to this situation. So I don't really see the connection between Senator Shark's question and this issue relating to something that will happen in the future, which means that a vacancy will be filled as the first president of the Supreme Court. Who created the legal situation... High Izbo, Mr. Senator Zientarski, I regret to say that I am a judge posted to the Ministry of Justice that, above all, part of the judicial environment has created this legal situation, because if it were not for the appeal of [[But in the Supreme Court...]] ...anti-action... [[Minister, I was asking about the Supreme Court.]] Well, I'm trying to understand what you're saying. If I didn't understand, that's fine, but if you don't mind, I'll finish my thought. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore... Yes, part of the judge's community focused in the Iustitia and not only, as well as part of the legal environment, because it is not only the judges that are concerned, she announced, with a completely open text, that she will block the process of recruitment to the Supreme Court. And it's not about how Senator Counselor Pociej listened to the discussion he said to prevent someone from exercising his right. That's not what this was about. All the senators in this House are well aware of the fact that it was a question of blocking the recruitment of free judges in the Supreme Court. For what reason? This is something you would have to ask the organisers of these actions, that is, part of the judicial community and part of the legal environment. After all, lawyers, counselors, notaries, etc. These are people who can formally apply to the Supreme Court and therefore take part in this kind of action. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If necessary, I can give you more examples. One already sounded here. Well, part of the judge's community, for example, is playing boycotting legitimate institutions... [[I was asking about the legal basis.]] ...the jury doesn't come to the meetings... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...doesn't come to the convention. Mr Senator, I understand that he is very surprised that Members have seen this phenomenon and wanted to eliminate it by eliminating the quorum. Why are we not interested in the question of constitutional compatibility? This, of course, is a very unpleasant question with thesis, because of course we are interested in it. And I'm going to say what I said at the outset, that is, we are not going to decide, nor even the High House will ultimately decide on constitutionality. We're convinced that this bill is constitutional and I'm assuming... [[On what grounds?]] ...that the Members who accepted it in the Lower House accepted it, too, because none of the Polish citizens I'm not talking about parliamentarians anymore. He would certainly not have been consciously involved in the procedure for adopting a law incompatible with the Constitution. And will it ultimately prove to be in line with the constitution? I'm sure it is, but of course it's not up to me to decide. [[Sure.]] [[I'm sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u239	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u240	Minister, you are a member of the government that is in dispute with the European Commission. The matter concerns the Constitutional Tribunal and the provisions of this Act. Please tell us how this law is supposed to lead or contribute to an agreement with the European Commission. Which provisions of this law aim at a compromise that the ministers of this government have repeatedly spoken about? That's the first question. Two. The provisions of this law confer powers on the Presidents of the regional courts to delegate the functions of the Chairs of the departments and to determine the division of activities in those courts. I understand that since they confer powers on the delegation of functions, it means that they also confer powers on the delegation of functions. Am I getting this right? The president will now be able to dismiss the heads of departments at his discretion, yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u241	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u242	Minister, we're being watched. I don't know if you know that. And what I'm trying to say is that for a few years now, I've been here witnessing such horrible hypocrisy and such nonsense that a normal citizen who thinks and reads with understanding can't survive it... Okay, okay, okay. [[You're not on stage.]] You refer to the fact that you have nothing to do with this bill, you hand it over to the Members, and it comes to a completely idiotic situation, because we have no right to ask the Member a question, because this Member is not here, and therefore the guilty senator, whom you are putting on the stand, is tired of God's spirit. [[Question, Mr. Senator, question.]] But I have to get into the question. Sir, I also don't like the fact that you're kind enough to call it that: judges are having fun. And answer me two questions. You said part of the jury. And in my opinion, this is the vast majority of judges. And second question. What, for such an ordinary citizen, is the lack of a quorum? Is it possible that 1 or 2 judges may decide to take a stand? Excuse me, but is this legally possible? And present this answer because people listen, even there, behind the fence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u243	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask whether you personally cooperated or whether the representatives of the Ministry cooperated with Members in drafting this bill? [[But that question has already been asked, Mr. Senator.]] [[But the minister didn't understand, I don't think he understood...]] Mrs. Marshal... [[You asked them in the same...]] [[There was no answer.]] The Minister did not understand, so I repeat them and I will repeat them until the Minister says: 'yes' or 'no'. [[It's a simple question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u245	Okay, thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u246	Yes. The question about the dispute with the European Commission: how is this proposal to enable a compromise? This is, of course, my assessment, so it can be agreed with or not. And the question is about evaluation, and therefore it is difficult to answer precisely. In my opinion... [[I asked for a recipe.]] In my view, this law has no special bearing on the dispute with the European Commission. I don't know if she's gonna be able to compromise or if they're gonna override this argument. As it seems, this law concerns matters not covered by EU law, therefore... Of course, you can claim... [[It doesn't apply to the rule of law?]] ...that the European Commission will challenge any legislation adopted by the Polish Parliament, but the question is whether it is entitled to do so. I do not see the possibility of such a solution, in fact, under the pretext of non-compliance with EU law, attacking or questioning, but of course the European Commission has its own logic of action, sometimes completely incomprehensible to me. And what will happen to this course of action that is taking place? Will there be any other instigation? I don't know. I assume that's because it's a parliamentary project. The aim of this law was not to communicate with the European Commission in any way, but to eliminate the problems that arose in the practice of the functioning of the Polish general courts and the Supreme Court. President of the district court, appointment and dismissal of judges in the district court. Well, I'll explain, because at least for some, as I understand it, there is some strengthening of the position of president or the granting of additional powers to him, and therefore it is suspicious, because it can be said that this president was appointed by the evil minister of justice and therefore he is wrong and will make bad personal decisions, and the project actually shifts competence with regard to the regional courts from the district courts to the governors of the regional courts. This has already sounded in the discussion today, but let me remind you: every president is accounted for by the presidents over him, and at the end administratively by the Minister of Justice from the efficiency of the court's functioning. How can you be accounted for by being e.g. President of the Grand District Court, where are 150 judges and 1 000 employees, if you have no influence on who will be head of the department, head of the section, etc., and these personal decisions must be addressed to the President of the District Court? So really, the project puts things back on their feet. If you have a responsibility, if you have tasks entrusted, you should have the competence to carry out these tasks. These powers were still in the hands of the Presidents appointed by the Minister of Justice. Yes, of course, there was a discussion in this House some time ago. Now we move these issues to a lower level, because it is rational, because it allows for better management, faster management, relieves district presidents from things they do not have enough knowledge about, because they concern regional courts, often far from headquarters, the seat of the district court. Yes, now the district president will be able to delegate the function, he will be able to cancel the function. As so far in the regional courts, the district president could do it, so now the district president can do it. When it comes to the absence of quorum, it is falsely presented in the media and in some statements today it was also shown that this could lead to a situation in which 2, 3 people will meet, will call themselves a meeting or a meeting of judges and will adopt something there, something that is important from the legal point of view, or for example. they will give an opinion on the candidates for the judges' positions, whether they will elect a representative of the judge's environment to the college. This is not the case, because if you look at the law on the system of common courts, what is always worth doing, discussing it, you can see that the President is obliged to notify the assemblies in the district court or in the appeal court two weeks before the date of the meeting. So... Of course, if everyone ignores it, if they don't come, then they'll be like. 3 people and will make a decision as an assembly, but cannot be said As it was often in the media or in the Sejm presented That suddenly the president will call his two vice presidents for coffee and have a meeting. Well, it has to be done two weeks in advance, and it's the whole narrative, I think, crashes. [[I have to ask. So that means that you answer my question in such a way that if there are three people, they can make a decision. That's right, right?]] Yes, of course. [[Thank you very much. This is the information we've been waiting for.]] Of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Of course, yes. We have a five-person court in Poland, and according to today's legal status, the meeting of judges of this court is also located in a small room, and it is a meeting, that is, the body provided for in the law on the system of common courts. We have 5-person courts and we have 330-person courts, like the District Court in Warsaw. That's the beauty of our judicial system. About who was working on it and who was the creator of the project, I've probably answered it three times already. I don't know if it's necessary for me to say it for the fourth time. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u247	Thank you very much. Another question you signed up for was Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u248	Minister, what you call reform was introduced in common courts about a year ago. Tell me what the efficiency of the common courts is these days. Has the time of judgment been shortened? Has the number of cases decreased as a result? And these are two of my main questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u249	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a question. In fact, at the very beginning you said, Minister, that part of the environment is playing boycotting. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the impropriety of this phrase. Of course, you are referring to the community of the "Iustitia" association, which you were a member until 2015. My question is: were you acting in defence of the independence of the judiciary as a member of the Iustitii? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u251	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a quick question. Well, I have a lot of questions about these projects. The Constitution clearly states that the President appoints the first president for a six-year term. I'd like to ask what were the motives... Are they familiar to you? What has Professor Gersdorf done so badly that you do everything you can to shorten her term of office or sentence her to head office in exile?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a question, continuing the thread of Judge Iwulski. I hope the Minister will put a little more emphasis on my question to answer them. What is the status of Judge Iwulski at the moment, and in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice can he now be President of the Supreme Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u255	Thank you very much. And last in this round of questions, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u256	Thank you very much. Minister, you said you weren't a politician. I understand you're a clerk. How can you use such a language and as an official say that a group of judges is having fun? This is not acceptable, Minister. How come you, in the Ministry of Justice, the one who disowns language, insults many people who do their work with such devotion? You come from this environment, and you shouldn't do that. If you want to be a politician, be a politician, not say you're an official. You're not a clerk, a clerk doesn't use words like that. And then there's the second line. I would like you to explain to us where this passage came from, which concerns the granting to prosecutors of the National Public Prosecutor's Office who have obtained permission to reside outside the locality of the office of the prosecutor's office, the right to accommodation free of charge and the reimbursement of the costs incurred for this purpose at the office of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Tell me what this is about. How much is this gonna cost? What group of prosecutors does that involve? Does it work backwards? Is this the sanctioning of those practices that have been in the prosecution's office so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u257	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the efficiency of the courts after the reform, I am not prepared for numbers, because I did not think that such questions would be asked in the context of a law that is being dealt with by the High House. From memory I can say that in some positions you can actually see progress, among others. by better, fairer administration of courts by newly appointed governors. But it could be much better if not for the blockade of certain judges, this time concentrated in the bodies of colleges of appeal courts. Well, in fact, the CEOs' management decisions are sabotaged, they're being repealed. Let me give you a very simple example. In one vertical position As a rule, it is a criminal pawn, because the criminal pawns are much less burdened than the civil or economic pawns of judges are too much, the second one is not enough. The president has to do something about it because he's in charge of the court, so he moves the judge where he's needed. The judge refers to the College of Appeals, and the College of Appeals repeals this decision, often without explaining or giving a crazy explanation. This law, fortunately, transfers these powers to the National Court Council, and I therefore think that such cases should no longer be. The National Judicial Council, first of all, is not a body. only the judge, and secondly, it is much more distant from some local circumstances, which unfortunately play their part in making such decisions rather than other decisions. So it could probably be better with these results, but unfortunately the attitude of a part of the judge's environment hinders the smooth administration of courts and the fair division of work that is to be carried out. As for the Iustitii... For God's sake, I don't know what this has to do with this submission, but yes, I was a member of the Iustitii and I was disfellowshipped. I acted in defense of the independence of the judge... [[Minister, you don't have to answer questions that are obviously not related to the subject.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] I thought I had to. Well, I'm trying... [[You don't have to. You shouldn't even be.]] Good. What did President Gersdorf do to us? [[Again...]] Well, I don't know how to answer that here. President Gersdorf has not applied for an extension of the right to adjudicate, and according to the law, legally binding... the one that's in force, not the one that we're talking about today... [[Voice from the room: She didn't have to.]] What's the status of Judge Iwulski? Well, it's hard to find a relationship again. In my view, this is the status of President of the Chamber of Labour, who, in connection with the vacancy as first president, is acting as first president until the election of the first President or the appointment of the President, in accordance with Article. 111 of the Supreme Court Act, the judge performing the duties of the first President. That is the status of Judge Iwulski today. I think so. If someone offended me about messing around... Well, there's a saying: you're having a bad time. What I was talking about is indeed bad and harmful to you, but perhaps it was an inappropriate comparison. I'm so sorry. With regard to the National Public Prosecutor's Office, here, in this submission, is the exact same normative content, which was partly included in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, partly in the Regulation. However, since such powers relating to the status of prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor's Office and residence in another locality should be laid down in the Act in accordance with the rules, it was necessary to submit this. As far as costs or other things are concerned, it does not change anything with regard to today's legal situation, but arranges a certain matter which, according to the rules, should be statutory matter, not sub-legal matter. The costs to the taxpayer do not cause this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u259	Thank you very much, Minister. And the last round of questions. Senator Zientarski. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Because we closed... [[Sir...]] [[You didn't close, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Senator Zientarski. You're welcome... [[Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.]] [[Minister...]] [[On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u260	It's a formal matter. I would ask the Minister, because you are not able to answer my question accurately in writing. And I'm signing up for my next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u261	Minister, you are reforming the justice system, which is clearly your concern for raising the credibility, the authority of the courts. Tell me, do you think such a appointment of judges will raise their authority and authority of the National Judicial Council, since 10,000 judges have come forward 18 and are ashamed to reveal the people who, as I say, have recommended them? Whether it's for raising authority or... Well, you're gonna finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u262	Mr. Senator Tight. [[Voices from the O.R.: Accelerated.]] It's tight. What did I say? [[Voice from the room: Accurate.]] [[Voice from the gym: You said it right.]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u263	Minister, just a moment ago you said that being a member of a body, you have a duty to participate in his work and that avoiding this obligation can be treated as a boycott. The National Judicial Council held 68 meetings during the current government's term of office. The meetings shall be known at least three months in advance. Minister Ziobro, a member of the National Judicial Council, did not attend any meeting of the National Judicial Council, as far as I know. What would you call it? Would you also qualify for boycott, or would you call it a different term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u264	Thank you very much. Senator Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Recently Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that agriculture is the most important part of the economy and that the condition of agriculture will depend on how our economy will also look. In numerous meetings with the villagers, we meet with agricultural entrepreneurs with many questions, questions that make sense of cheering. The inhabitants ask, mostly those injured, who were simply robbed, deceived, how much longer we will continue to carry out these reforms. They're surprised we've been running them for so long, inefficiently... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] That's not what I meant. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and they ask when the reforms will finally be completed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...and we will live in a safe country where the courts will act quickly, efficiently and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the courtroom: And justice will be on our side.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u266	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you. Because you said your first president of the Supreme Court is losing his position in accordance with the law, in accordance with the law in force. If, according to you, the constitution is legally binding. And how does that apply to art? 183, which states that the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court is a 6-year term and therefore the President should remain in office until the end of 2020? That's the first question. And the other. Don't you think that such an important bill should not be proceded as a parliamentary project, but as a government project? Because I know that this right of initiative cannot be removed from Members, but since you are so in agreement with this parliamentary initiative, should you not take over this draft law and for the good and his and the Polish society to submit it to the procedure of both inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations, including consultation with legal environments, including the environment to which you belonged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u268	Thank you very much. And the last question in this round is Senator Shark's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Minister, can the prosecutors of the National Public Prosecutor's Office go to the Supreme Court as judges in accordance with this law? [[Thank you...]] No, but no matter what... yeah, I mean the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u270	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, 18 judges came to the National Judicial Council, 15 were elected. Does that raise prestige? I don't know if he's picking it up or not. I think that maybe not to make monuments, but a great deal of recognition should be given to those judges who agreed to do so, the entire eighteen, because in the judicial environment there was a regular chase, as it were expected that this new procedure, which was adopted by the parliament of the sovereign state, would not be applied, because the judges would simply not report. There was a boycott, there was not giving a hand, there were posters of Judge Mazor, Judge Kurciusz-Furmannik, etc., etc., which hung on the streets, resign, well, powerful pressure. The behavior for me is completely incomprehensible, deeply unethical and directed only to paralyze the legal procedure. It didn't work, just because there were 18 people who could stand up. And since you probably don't all know that, I recommend reading. I think the questioner, Senator Zientarski, as a longtime member of the National Judicial Council might know that. The previous part of the National Judicial Council was chosen from how many candidates, when there was no choice by Parliament, there was no pressure, it was not a question which was of interest to anyone outside the judicial environment. [[Voice from the courtroom: With 20 judges...]] Yeah, out of 20 judges, 15 were elected. Yes. Last election... [[Voice from the room: Better...]] It's your assessment or better. Look at the previous composition of the National Judicial Council. There was probably one doctor of law, although there were many judges of the Supreme Court and higher courts, and now there are 4. You could say better, worse. Everybody just leave it... [[The voice from the room: You can't...]] I'm talking about the composition of the National Judicial Council, the judge's part. Of the 15, there were four doctors in law school, and in the previous lineup, as far as the judge is concerned, there was probably only Judge Goner, if I'm not mistaken. At the time, 20 judges were elected, there was no pressure, there was no chase, there were no threats. Now there was pressure, chase, threats, and 18 came forward. Do you see any difference between the senators? I don't see her especially, except it's a good thing that there are 18 righteous people and they've decided. [[Except they had authority.]] And the fact that the letters of support are classified is already a legislative decision. Even Minister Ziobro said that in the future... [[Voice from the room: We don't have...]] In my opinion, it is, but of course we are qualified lawyers and we can argue about interpretation. Minister Ziobro said he didn't see the need for this to happen in the future, but of course he doesn't decide. For today, letters of support are simply classified, and the Ministry of Justice certainly cannot call for non-respect of the legal order. Therefore, for today there are no known letters of support, i.e. Names. Why didn't a member of the National Judicial Council, Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziobro usually put himself to these meetings? This, of course, is not a question for me, because it is a personal right. You can't replace it here. If he could, he'd probably send me because I'm a judge, it's easier for me, and I certainly don't have as many responsibilities as the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. I suspect that this is simply about the excess of responsibilities associated with the existence of these two very important and incriminating offices, concentrated in one person, in accordance with the Polish tradition in this area. Now, the senator's question about the village, about the expectations of society, about how long it will take to reform the justice system. I would like it to be as short as possible, but the discussion, which is also taking place in the High House, shows that some of the things that have happened and that we are watching, no one has ever imagined before, because such behaviours as boycotting meetings or judicial assemblies or the attempt to paralyze the election of Supreme Court judges have never happened in Polish history. I do not know the same examples that such stories will take place in countries with which we should compare and to which we would like to strive for efficiency and wealth. So sometimes it's like there's more laws because something surprises us. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Is the constitution legal? Well, it's probably obvious to everyone in Poland, especially government officials or parliamentarians. Does it say there's a six-year term for the First President of the Supreme Court? Of course, that's what it says in the recipe that you quoted from the senator. Is there another provision that states that the age of the judges is laid down by the law? Yeah, there's a recipe. Does this mean that the ordinary legislature could determine the age of retirement of the judges? Yes, of course he could, in accordance with the constitution, and he did it. Madam President... former President Gersdorf has reached this age. She had a chance to go on ruling, but she didn't take advantage of it. One provision cannot be removed from the Constitution and said: oh, we have just acquired the secret knowledge, this is the reality that arises from one rule. This provision is surrounded by other provisions, the whole act, in this case the highest act, the constitution, and also by a provision which the senator did not mention relating to the legislature's mandate to determine the habitual age of the judges. Therefore, I do not see any contradictions with the constitution here, but the need to lecture the constitution fairly, including not with the selection of fragments to prove a certain thesis. [[Voice from the room: Minister, I'll fill you in in in a minute. You're not telling me...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... [[Calm down, please.]] Shouldn't this law be prosecuted in government mode? Well, it's not the task of a government representative to review the actions of parliamentarians. It was the parliamentarians who took the burden of removing the problems arising from the operation of the Supreme Court and the general courts and several other issues which are in this law. If it hadn't been for the parliamentarians, the Minister of Justice would have been able to handle it, too, but I suspect that the urgency of this situation has been influenced by the decisions of Members, these problems, due to the announced obstruction of the recruitment process for Supreme Court judges. All of this has caused Members to feel responsible for the State to take care of this problem and that is why we are meeting today and discussing this law. Can prosecutors of the National Public Prosecutor's Office or any other entity under this law go to the Supreme Court? This law does not in any way change the criteria for entering the Supreme Court, therefore prosecutors can and will be able to go there, just as judges with a ten-year internship, such as lawyers, notaries, habilitated doctors, lawyers, and maybe someone else I left out. This bill doesn't change that at all. For the information of the High House, I may state that according to my knowledge, because we have checked it out, the President of Iwulski, who has already been called, became a judge of the Supreme Court after 12 years, including assesura, judgment. Well, it's not like it's an excessive period... So that's the state of affairs that this 10-year period is needed, that's the state of things that's been going on for, like, 30 or 40 years. I saw the text of the 1984 Act and there were 10 years as a minimum period of judgment to apply for the position of Supreme Court Judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u272	Thank you very much, Minister. Another round of questions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. He's not here. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, who do you think is today? I'm here. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Sorry.]] Thank you very much. Who do you think is the president of the first or not Supreme Court today? If you could answer that question... Is this Mr. Iwulski, or is this yours? Margaret Gersdorf? And if the marshal will allow it... Can I ask you one more question? [[Please. As long as you can fit in a 60-second limit.]] Thank you. Of course. [[So that the senator can ask such questions...]] [[Calm down, please.]] I would like to say to Senator Ryszka that I can ask the questions I want. And you say that sometimes I don't know what to do with my eyes. But that's another thing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then don't interrupt. Then I'd like to ask you, Minister... After all, many democratic institutions, judges of the Supreme Court, the legal community in Poland and all political forces outside PiS recognize that Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf is the first President of the Supreme Court. Anyway, she's talking about it, and she's declaring it. And I would like to ask what the Ministry of Justice intends to do about this. Are you guys... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Do you provide for the use of physical coercion measures against the professor in order to enforce your interpretation of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u274	Thank you. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u275	I'd like to get back to those 35+ lawyers of mine. We have two legal situations, Minister. One person entering the profession who may not be more than 35 years old and the other situation, persons who are already in that profession who may not be more than 40 years old. The design of the regulations themselves and the passage of time, all the rules regarding the age of the application make it necessary for women to be pushed out of this application, who, if they decide to give birth to children freshly after college, have to choose Or a career in the D.A.'s office, in the judiciary, or having children and maternity leave, because they just won't be able to fit in at that time. By force, this also precludes those who, for various reasons, could not do their studies at the time they wanted to do them, i.e., at the age of nineteen to twenty years, and started their studies later, because they would not be able to enter the profession either. But the biggest pain I've ever had is And I got a dozen e-mails in this case. The legal situation of those who today act as assessors or assistants. These people often have many years of experience, 4-, 5-, 6-year-olds, but they will not be able to join the application because they will not fit in age limits, while at the same time they are much younger, who have a much shorter internship, e.g. year or two, they will be able to participate in such an application. And my question to the Minister is as follows... I would add, by the way, that the EU Court has spoken in a similar case, only where it concerned the age of admission of people to the police service. He was critical, and I'd like to add. And my question to the Minister is what will be the legal situation of these people, what will be the further path of their careers, the people who today, from day to day in this law, have been deprived of their ability to enter the profession, despite that... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...that they've been preparing for this for many years. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I'm almost done. Aren't you afraid of the lawsuit? Because these people can be based on whether it's EU rules or our art. 32 constitutions to file appropriate lawsuit. And the last thread of the same question. Does the Minister have such information as the number of people today involved in this exclusion from the profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u276	Thank you very much. Let me remind you of the time limit for the question, which is 1 minute. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u277	I would like you, Minister, to describe in detail the situation that upsets me not only, but also many others, not only those who are lawyers, who allow a positive decision to be taken by the National Judicial Council in cases where not all documents have been provided. In any other institution known to me, such a situation has not happened, at least until recently. Those who did not provide the relevant documentation were excluded from the tenders, those who did not provide the relevant certificates, etc. Well, in the case of each institution, it is a condition for acceptance that what is declared to be compatible with the paperwork. How is it possible that this will be the case, and how is it to look that despite the lack of documentation, the candidate is positively judged?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u278	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u279	Thank you very much. Minister, this is how I came to listen to your argument... Because you said those judges who wanted to turn themselves in to this newly formed KRS were the subject of pressure and chase. I would like to ask, how would you describe this billboard action, which was run by the Polish National Foundation? We had such a phenomenon, billboards were hanging all over Poland. What would you call this action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u280	Thank you very much. And last in this round of questions, Mr. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u281	Thank you. Minister, I'm going to develop a little bit of the question that Senator Klich asked. You can see from the provisions of the Act that designers are going away from the nomination procedure of the Supreme Court judges who had, I would say, a substantive character. The Act required candidates to demonstrate their qualifications, professional experience, academic achievements, publications. There were many requirements that set this substantive bar high for candidates. The current record says candidates can, but they don't have to. Therefore, the path to fast careers for judges who do not legitimize themselves with a job, experience etc. is opened. Doesn't the Minister feel that the authority of the Supreme Court may therefore be affected by the work of judges who do not have sufficient professional and scientific knowledge and that this may affect the quality of judgments and judgments?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u282	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to respond. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Now, of course.]] Concise.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u283	Yes. Who's the first president of the Supreme Court? Nobody. We have a vacancy in this position. Currently President Iwulski is performing his duties because President Gersdorf has retired. What is the Ministry of Justice going to do to, I don't know, introduce a new president, or, I don't know, escort Judge Gersdorf out? Well, there's nothing he's gonna do, because it's not a topic at all for the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice in accordance with the Law on Government Administrations has no competence with regard to the Supreme Court and is generally concerned with the general courts. About the situation... Well, coercive measures... This is difficult to comment on, but generally from coercion measures it is the Ministry of Justice, not the Ministry of Justice. The election mode of the new President is also completely outside the Ministry of Justice. As regards the age of candidates for an application in KSSIP, it is not, first, that this law closes the way to the judicial office for older people than 35 and 40 years of age respectively. That's not the case, because all these side roads remain. You can be a lawyer, a solicitor or a notary of a very advanced age or a professor and become a judge. A Supreme Court judge or a judge of a common court or administrative court. The Best Example Mr. Handyman, Professor, at the age of 63, became the Supreme Court judge quite recently. Thus, in this legal state that is in force today, and in that which will be in force if this law is adopted, it could also be equivalent to the same age as the Supreme Court judge or the general court judge. But the point is not to spend enough money on public funds to train people in the National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office who in some way will not be able to pay off this debt to society. Because entering the state of the judge at an advanced age... And they can't be discriminated against by age, so if someone wins an application contest at the age of 60, they'll just win it. He's gonna have to take it, he's gonna pass the referee's exam, and he's gonna have to be admitted to assesura, and then he's probably gonna be a judge, he's gonna work for a year or two, and he's gonna get the right to rest. So all taxpayers will pay that person a few times what they would pay if they were in a normal pension system. Is that right? I don't think so. Is that fair? I don't think so. Especially since there are other ways to get to the judge's office. The age of 35,40 years... I don't know, I'm not a specialist in that, but I don't know why he would discriminate against women. Well, usually because of biological issues at that age, you already have children. But, of course, there may be other accidents. It's not like this law isn't an option. Just like the senator said. People who have been preparing for years... Well, how could they prepare for a supplemental application when this law even introduces such an institution? How could these people have known years ago that Members would someday come up with the idea that there would be a supplementary application as an additional way to the judge's office just for assistants, for referees? Well, they couldn't prepare because they didn't know anything like this was gonna happen. As far as the application is concerned, this typical National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the level of 35 years seems to be as reasonable as possible. As for the fact that there aren't all the documents... Why is that? For a very simple reason. If e.g. to the Supreme Court will try to get any judge of the common court It will have to submit by reference, inter alia, because of its origin and hence its power to report, the opinion of the college of the competent court and the meeting at which it would be consulted will have to take place. Therefore, if it were to happen, e.g. to prevent these documents from being obtained, just the assembly's opinion, it would not be possible to proceed with such a candidacy. And the candidate has no way of forcing such an opinion. Well, let's say there's gonna be some kind of obstruction tactic again. And then what? The good candidates will be voted out not because they didn't want to file documents, but because these documents weren't issued to them. It is, of course, the failure to lay down these documents, the effect of this failure to comply with the purpose for which this procedure is established, i.e. the selection of the best candidates for the positions of Supreme Court Judges, will be subject to the assessment of the National Council of Courts. And I assume that a candidate who, without justified reasons, does not present his list of publications, a list of judgments issued, written justifications, some other points indicating that he is indeed a person worthy of such a high office as the office of the Supreme Court judge, will simply not be elected. But for this reason, on the basis of certain formal deficiencies, it is not possible to deprive such a person of the right to apply for the position of a Supreme Court judge, because simply not all documents can be accessible to such a person. And it could be another possibility to block the whole procedure. I don't think the Billboards of the Polish National Foundation have anything to do with the discussion we're having here. These are billboards. it is the Polish National Foundation, not the Ministry of Justice or the Government, therefore it is difficult for me to respond to this. Senator Rybicki mentioned it. These criteria are still the same. It is possible to proceed with the candidacy, for which there are not all documents, but it is still the National Council of the Court of Justice as a constitutional body empowered to do so and will be appointed for the selection. [[It's a joke of the year.]] Therefore, whether she chooses better or worse candidates will be her decision. In this decision-making process you can somehow involve the President, because he may appoint a judge, and maybe, despite the judge's positive opinion, he will not invoke because, I don't know, he will doubt whether he is good enough and deserves this office. Whether the newly appointed judges of the Supreme Court will increase the authority, the level of the case law of this authority or not, of course we will all know. I hope that this will be the case, that it will be a better Supreme Court, composed of better judges, and that reality will be judged by each individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u284	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u285	Minister, how will this court be better if you are lowering the requirements for the qualification of judges? This is pointed out by our law firm, which is written in the opinion. That's the first question. Second question. You say you don't know where that bill was written, who wrote it and prepared it. I think we're gonna find out because things like this come out sooner or later. Well, you don't know that. Then tell me why there is such a coincidence that you do not accept the comments of our legislators, for example, that you do not accept the opposition's comments. Is it such a coincidence that all the comments were wrong, and what was written in this draft act, in the parliamentary project, just as if you were taken out of your mouth and as a representative of the Ministry, you have no objections? [[Coincidence.]] Tell me how this is possible. How is such a case possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u287	Minister, I will refer to the article. Five laws on the D.A.'s office. Here is a very important change, a fundamental change, and therefore I have the following questions. This amendment states that the prosecution may participate on the rights of a party or a participant in any proceedings conducted by public authorities and administrations, courts and tribunals, unless otherwise provided by the laws. Tell me if there are any off-limits at the moment. Are there any laws that shut this article down? Tell me if this also applies... I understand that this applies to administrative proceedings, as well as to other local authorities... Well, not only because it's here in every case. Or also in the case of the Civil Code, the Administrative Code? And finally, how does the D.A. or the D.A. want to participate? Will it be mandatory for the prosecution to be informed by public authorities and administrations, courts, tribunals, about any proceedings being conducted?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u288	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u289	Thank you kindly. Minister, I would like to ask if the cause of resistance to a large part of the judicial community, which you even called boycott, is not a loss of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal. It seems that we have actually lost arbitration in legislation matters and what judges are doing is at least I think so. A confirmation of the reservations we make with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal. What's your opinion on this? That's what this is like for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u290	Thank you very much. Are there any more requests for questioning? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u291	I'd like to ask you a question... [[Now we're gonna group up 10 questions each.]] After 10? [[Yes.]] Well, maybe I'll ask 10 to do my duty. [[In a minute.]] How many vacancies are there in the courts right now? I've heard of different numbers, 700, 600. I remember two years ago, when we were discussing this, we were asking this question, too. There were about 300 vacancies at the time. What happened at the time that the number of vacancies increased so much? If the Minister is unable to answer that question, I would ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u293	Thank you very much. Minister, you've gone pretty easy and far over my question about the situation that is now. Of course, we differ in our assessment of this situation. You say your first president of the Supreme Court is retired or retired. I don't know how this... That's how we can put it. But the president says that, according to the constitution, he's still the president. That's what the Supreme Court says. Here's the question. In a situation where there's a change, and, I understand, you want to make it through these, not the other decisions you're proposing... How will this change be made? That's one thing. Secondly, you said what surprised me at all that the Ministry of Justice didn't really have much to do with the Supreme Court. That's why I'd like to ask: what are you doing on this platform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u294	Senator Terminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u295	I'm sorry. I didn't catch that. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Minister, let me repeat the question because I didn't get an answer before. Asking that question... When the age issue was discussed, it was not just about the introduction of a supplementary application institution, but rather about the fact that people who are assistants, assistants today, were surprised by the introduction of an age limit. It was like the essence of that question. You answered my question only in part. Aren't you worried about the lawsuit and how many people are involved today? The Minister also used economic arguments. Okay. I really appreciate it. economic arguments, but the bill, I think, earlier... I think this is the fifth amendment of the bill. A few moments earlier, there was a legal act that introduced retirement age for judges. There's been talk of 65 years. At the judge's request, the judge may retire while maintaining the right to pay if he or she decides, respectively, 25 years in the case of women and 30 years in the case of men. So the situation is that after 2 or 3 years, the judge retires in the light of the applicable rules, this law is probably from a month ago. It's like there isn't. So these economic arguments are incomplete, and somehow they do not speak to me. Hence my question to the Minister. Aren't you afraid of the lawsuit? What number of people is involved in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u296	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Senator Wach. [[Voice from the hall: Florek.]] I'm sorry. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u297	Minister, are there any regulations in this bill that make improvements for citizens? There's seven or eight laws, an amendment... Are there any improvements to the justice system? Is there anything about an average citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u298	Thank you. Are there any more calls? I don't see any volunteers. We've exhausted the list of questions. Please respond to the Minister... [[But I...]] I asked, there were no reports. [[I'm still checking in, but after that question...]] You're welcome. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[I wanted to get an answer to those questions I asked.]] Yeah, but I'm grouping up questions after 10. Does the marshal want to ask a question right now? [[But I don't care how you group questions.]] Senator Zientarski. You're welcome. [[You can group 100 each.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u299	Minister, you are introducing the Disciplinary Chamber, the jury to the Supreme Court. That's my first question: why didn't you bring the jury, if you want to socialize, to the county courts, to the appeals courts, to the Supreme Court? That's the first question. And the other one... Well, maybe next, Mr. Marshal. [[But in what order, Mr. Senator?]] 'Cause I just wanted to ask... [[Then ask questions. Are there any more questions?]] Oh, Mr. Marshal... [[Please.]] Minister, as far as the Disciplinary Chamber is concerned, are the lawyers who will uphold the Constitution and challenge European tribunals, for example, the judgments of the judges who have been appointed by the body... [[Excuse me, please turn off the phone...]] ...in fact... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, because someone's phone... please continue.]] If they interpret the constitution like most constitutionalists and professors of all the law departments, will they be held liable for disciplinary action?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u300	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u301	Does the Minister believe that this number of candidates for Supreme Court jurors who applied to the Senate is a success or not? And the ancillary question: why did such a small number of people, although the criteria are very low, report to the Supreme Court? Because 16 people came forward, as I remember, we chose 13, and there are 32 places.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u302	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have tried to explain before, but I can repeat in answer to Senator Zdrojewska's question that I do not see in this law the reduction of formal requirements related to the appointment of a Supreme Court judge, unless this reduction is the possibility of a substantive examination in a situation where less than one document is presented. But why is this happening, I've already answered. And this is the only thing that can be collectively termed a reduction in formal requirements. In general, there is no such thing. Why am I not taking notes as a representative of the Ministry of Justice and the Government if we are not the authors of the bill? Well, it's probably because I think this project or actually, I'm sorry, this bill that's been passed, it's right, and these criticisms led by the opposition parliamentarians in this case, the senators for not being justified. That's it. [[What about the Senate Legislative Office's comments?]] [[Calm down, please.]] I also explained why we do not consider these comments appropriate. At the committee's meeting we did not see and here we do not see this contradiction with the constitution raised, among others. in the context of the abolition of the quorum. But, of course, we can differ in our assessments, not only with the opposition, but also with the Senate Legislative Office. Well, it's possible, these are judgmental issues. Art. Five laws on the D.A.'s office. I don't know what it is, whether it's from the ignorance or the search for a conspiracy that's not at all where it might be necessary to look for it. I don't see any conspiracy in this bill. Art. 5 in the version in force today from Article. 5 in the version of the Parliament's submission is different only because it is added in the middle of the sentence, which today is the "Procurator" may participate in any proceedings carried out by public authorities and administrations, courts and tribunals, unless otherwise provided by the laws, the words "in the rights of the party or participant of the proceedings." There have been doubts about the rule that applies today, who this prosecutor is, if the appropriate procedure clearly does not regulate it. Procedure, e.g. civilian, which is closest to me because I have worked my entire life as an economic judge, of course it states that it has the rights of the party, although it is not a party of course. But not all procedures are so precise. In order to resolve this doubt, I understand that the proposed change in the wording of the provision, an amendment of an ordering nature, and from some of the statements that have sounded here, it appears that this is some extension of the scope of the prosecution's activities. The prosecution in every law-abiding state is to uphold the public interest, and this one appears and in criminal matters, it's obvious, because there, by nature, the prosecutor is a participant in the proceedings. and in administrative and civil matters and other matters. The prosecutor is not decision-making, but it is from presenting a specific view to the decision-making body, public administration or court. He's supposed to stand guard of the public interest. And that's what Art. 5, as in today's version, as well as the version from the submission. Will it be mandatory to notify the D.A.? Of course, there is no such obligation under this provision. If, in some procedure, such an obligation exists, e.g. In a criminal... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 In vain seek to impose an obligation on the determining authority, the court, the public administration to notify the prosecutor. The prosecutor may take knowledge from any source and assess that the public interest requires a specific proceeding. Even if the prosecutor is not informed, he joins and then is an appropriate party, and also a participant in the proceedings. With regard to notification, the submission does not change anything. Is it because of the resistance of part of the judge's environment that he loses confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal? I don't know. You would probably have to ask any judge who opposes more or less the various elements of justice reform: what do you think, judge or judge, do not like in a given solution or action? Maybe some people don't like the revision of the Court Act, maybe some of them have some disappointed ambitions, maybe some of them have some political beliefs that they shouldn't manifest, but they do. There may be very different motivations here. I don't think there's one, and it's all about everybody. This Court may be a problem for some people. I can't rule it out, but of course I can't confirm it either. How many vacancies for today? I don't know. Maybe something around 700 or 600. Why were there a little less of them a few months ago? Because, at some point, the Minister of Justice stopped publishing announcements of free judicial positions in common courts. Why? That's because you had to secure asses jobs in connection with a complete change in the asessor's institution. This required securing posts for all those who have completed or already completed the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It was a few hundred people. They've all gone to court. Why weren't there notices in the county courts or appeals? Because since there was no supply of new staff to the regional courts, it was impossible for the judges to move up from the regional courts. District courts, that's 90%. The justice system, therefore... And yet the assesaurs haven't come. Well, from the district courts, it would remain a mess. These courts are primarily the first line of contact with the citizen, because they deal with a significant majority of cases, more than 90%. Why did it get bigger? That's because once all the asses jobs were filled, which happened in February or March... This was accompanied by a large public debate and surprising decisions of the old one, so to speak, the National Council of Judicial Affairs, the previous one. That's when they announced all these positions. The trial is ongoing. Usually it's a process about a year, sometimes a 9-month period, if everything goes very quickly. We start in March and maybe in the autumn there will be first nominations in the Presidential Palace from this held pot. Vacations will decrease, and I will say colloquially It's never gonna go down to zero because there's a staff movement all the time. Probably about 100 vacancies in judicial positions is a natural condition resulting from the fact that judges retire, resign, die. There are different types of situations, and the procedure is long-term, because it requires the cooperation of many organs. She's supposed to be, and it's hard to change, because it's about the best lawyers being judges. How will a change be made as the first president of the Supreme Court? I don't know how this change is gonna happen. The future will show. Maybe Judge Gersdorf will think he's no longer the president, or maybe he won't. I don't know. This is not the thing we have been thinking about, and this law certainly does not concern this issue. What am I doing on this platform if it's not a project prepared by the Ministry of Justice? The government's duty is to send a representative. Common justice and the prosecution are an immanent part of this project. Who's gonna be here? Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology? Someone at the Home Minister of Justice. And since the senators are also asking about the Supreme Court, it is difficult for a government representative not to give the best answers he can. I don't think so, Mr. Senator, that we've surprised someone here when it comes to age. As I say, a supplemental app is a complete novelty. When it comes to a simple application, it is difficult to assume that someone has been preparing for years to pass an initial exam for an ordinary application... It's really new here, I mean. Thirty-five years old. However, the principle is enshrined in transitional provisions The relevant amendment was tabled and adopted at the seymical stage That those who have already applied for an application which has been announced by the KSSiP may participate in this call, regardless of their age. And if they win the competition, if they're 50 or 55, they have to be accepted and accepted. That's why we're not afraid to sue. There doesn't seem to be any real possibility of bringing a claim out of this kind of situation. In my view, the freedom of the legislator absolutely allows for this kind, motivated by economics, because nothing else, the legislative option. It's not like a judge who's worked x years can go to rest, you have to work some years to go to rest. No. When you reach resting age, even if you have worked for two years, you go to rest. What the senator is talking about is a matter of transitional provisions concerning some sort of out-of-states. It's actually... It's been like this for years, even if you haven't reached your resting age. There were differences between judges of men and judges of women It's... Despite the lack of age, if you worked for some years, you could have gone to rest earlier. But the attainment of age gives all the privileges involved, i.e. a 75% salary. the last salary as a judge. Improvements for citizens? Well, even though the positions of Supreme Court judges will be filled more quickly, but also judges in common courts, which of course must translate into the efficiency of these institutions, i.e. the Supreme Court, and the universal courts. It is also a greater possibility to move judges where there is work, from places where this work is not in court This will, of course, result in better use of the staff we have in the justice system. The jury to the Supreme Court doesn't make this bill. Well, that's the state that's in force... It's the Senate's work that's involved. Why isn't there a jury in common court? That's not a question for me, that's a question... Well, you can ask a question about anything that's not here. Well, there isn't, because there isn't, because the Members didn't write it and didn't show up. I don't know how else to answer that question. Will lawyers who will complain to European tribunals about the various issues involved in this reform or will they generally be subject to disciplinary responsibility? I don't know. I have no idea. After all, disciplinary responsibility belongs to the barrister's government, and therefore it is difficult for a government representative to express himself in this regard. It is your attorneys, counsellors, notarial spokespersons and your corporate courts in these legal corporations who will decide that. The Supreme Court of the Disciplinary Chamber is only a cassation instance in these cases, not a substantive instance... [[And the minister has nothing to say?]] It's all happening... [[Minister?]] What do I have to say? [[Calm down, please. Minister, don't react to any of this. Here are the champs, don't let them provoke you.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for bringing me to order. I am not responsible for the activities of attorneys or others. It's hard for me to explain what they're going to do in the future. The secrecy of the jury, why are there so few of them, or is it a success... Well, that's not the question that relates to the submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u304	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for answering all your questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: There are still questions.]] I asked if there were any questions. There were no questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Zdrojewska and Zientarski.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[I also have a question about your answer.]] [[A new bag brought in...]] [[Electronic correspondence, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u305	Mr. Marshal Karczewski was talking to me, but I didn't hear... Minister, because you said this article. 5 basically does not change, I would like to ask why, then, in the justification of this law, it is said that the provision of the article. 5 law on the prosecutor's office constitutes a novel in the existing legal order and that such regulation was not known in the previously applicable law determining the system and rules of operation of the prosecutor's office. Minister, is it possible to participate on the rights of a party or a participant in any proceedings conducted by public authorities and administrations, public authorities and administrations, i.e. local governments, public administrations... Was that in the previous bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u306	Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u307	Minister, I asked that earlier question not without a goat. The Lord replied that this is an internal matter of corporations or legal authorities. I ask, then, whether the Minister of Justice has anything to do with disciplinary proceedings, or whether there is no way to influence or evaluate disciplinary proceedings, e.g. I'm a lawyer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u308	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u309	I'd like to ask the Minister, in accordance with the cui bono rule... Because you are so bravely facing all these questions and in the Seym, and here, today. Are you going to take a position in the Supreme Court? Are you going there? Is it possible, or is it not possible? [[It's not related to the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u310	Senator, this isn't about the bill. [[Why? I'm asking:]] Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u311	Minister, because I didn't actually get an answer to my basic question, and I'm sure that's what you've been doing. How many people are concerned with the problem of the inability to perform the application? Because on the one hand we hear that we have hundreds of vacancies in the judiciary, and on the other hand we block, only because of age, people who have a certain professional experience, because they have been working in the judiciary for many years, the possibility of becoming judges. Okay, I know it's a possibility, but these people didn't go to work in the courts to try and figure out some sideways ways to get into the profession. So my question is, how many people are involved? Do you have such analyses or do you not have them? How's it look? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u312	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There you go, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u313	I have a question too. Minister, can the district judge move to the district first and then to the court of appeal in less than a year? Who am I talking about? This is a member of the National Judicial Council, Mr. Judge... Is that okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u314	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I'm closing the list of questions. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Then we'll give the floor to the Ombudsman. Because your spokesperson wanted to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: May I, Mr. Marshal?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u315	'Cause I see there on the left side again... Art. 5. Well, it's hard for me to answer. I will not deny what is stated in the justification for the project, especially since Marshal Borusewicz had just read this justification. Novum is that, finally, at the general level, we are talking about the status of prosecutor in every proceeding. Well, I read that article. 5. This right of the prosecutor to participate in any proceedings has existed for years. In the law on the D.A.'s office, there's a novel that tells us who he is. He's either a party or a participant, for example. In c.p.c., in non-process, there are no pages, only participants. That's it. Well, you could say it's a novel, and that's how it's set out in the explanatory memorandum. In my view, it's a tidying change, not an expanding change. Well, I don't know what else can be added here, since the specific powers of the prosecutor, the obligations of notification, etc., are laid down in the specific laws, in the detailed procedures. Senator Zientarski asked if the Minister of Justice had anything to do with the disciplinary proceedings of lawyers, etc. Well, he does, because he could be in these proceedings, he's got his ID... [[That's not what I asked.]] Well, I've been trying to answer the question about the presentation, not what's been in force for at least 20 years, Senator, Counselor. [[...the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court?]] No, no. [[Minister, please don't react to the buzzing, the pickings, the yelling.]] The participation of the Minister of Justice in disciplinary proceedings of representatives of all legal professions has been in force for years. Novum is indeed a Disciplinary Chamber to which the Minister of Justice has nothing, as to the entire Supreme Court. Is there anything I've been promised? No, I wasn't promised anything. Mrs. Senator, High Izbo, I'm here because this is my duty as undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Justice. [[I asked if you were going, not if you were promised.]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[Don't react to any problems, Minister.]] I answered why I was here. Where I'm going, I don't think it's the subject of a submission that the House is sitting on. I'm not going anywhere yet. I'm gonna... [[Voice from the room: Minister, you didn't answer...]] Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senator asked how many people had a problem with the introduction of these age limits, i.e. the introduction of a 35-year age limit for applications at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I don't know. Probably all the people who graduated from law school and didn't turn thirty-five. Hence, it must be a huge crowd of people. They're all potentially entitled to this because they've graduated from law school, and they can take the KSSiP exam. I'm sure it's a huge number, but of course I don't know that number. It's probably the Ministry of Higher Education that could tell you how many law graduates there are in each year. The second topic is the supplementary application, addressed to the assistants of judges and prosecutors and the referenda. We haven't done a count on these people, and I'm not able to answer the senator's question as to how many people it could be. This would probably require downloading data from individual courts, as to how many assistants we have and at what age, how many referenda we have and at what age, to determine what is the potential group of those affected by the introduction of a supplemental application in KSSiP. As I say, it is a complete novel, so it is difficult to say that something has a negative effect on them, since we are giving them an additional, new opportunity thanks to this project, Members give them an additional, new opportunity to come to the judge's office. Moreover, those who passed the judge's exam are after the so-called. the old judicial application, by virtue of the previous law concerning common courts and the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, have the powers to expire for several more good years. They can get to the judge's post without assesura, skipping the application, whether it's regular or complementary, because they're honored for some years. The legislator in the transitional provisions provided for this The powers of persons who once passed the judge's exam and during the many years that passed from then to time, for various reasons, often understood in life, have not yet become those judges. Therefore, a large part, I think, of the assistants and referees who have already passed the judge's exam will become judges. And I think they will work for the benefit of the Polish state. Can one year be promoted from a regional court to an appeal court? Yes, of course, you can, on the assumption that the process will be carried out smoothly. Because you can get promoted from the district court to the Supreme Court within a year. After all, a district court judge who has a ten-year internship is entitled to run for Supreme Court. So, theoretically, it's possible. But it is clear that the senator refers to the case of President Drajewicz. He's posted. I signed this delegation myself. So this is not a promotion, because this delegation can end at any time. The promotion is only when the National Judicial Council presents and the President appoints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I invite you to speak to the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u317	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to say that when I first spoke in the Senate Chamber on judicial laws, in general, I spoke immediately after the President of the Supreme Court Chamber, Stanisław Zabłocki, and it was a great honour for me. Now this is quite interesting for me, because I speak for Minister Łukasz Piebiaku, with whom I had the pleasure to cooperate on several occasions before the beginning of October 2015 as part of various initiatives to defend the independence of the judiciary. I remember the Minister's involvement in matters relating to the independence of Sadition in Hungary, Turkey. The last time we met was at the meeting of the Association of Polish Judges, organized on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of Eustitia in Suwałki. And then the Minister defended the various principles of judicial independence very strongly. It can be said that for some time now, in principle since November 2015 and later, these views seem to have been divergent and I think our ideas have been scattered in this area. And this is quite symbolic for me, because I believe that values are unchangeable and constitutional values, which are to defend the independence of the judiciary, should be unchangeable, that the constitution has not changed and should be the subject of defence in this regard. Therefore, my presence here because, as a ombudsman, I believe it is my duty to protest and express my opposition openly when there may be a violation of the Constitution and when there may be a violation of the right to court as a fundamental mechanism for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual, as well as the right of the individual, which we have on the basis of the Constitution, because we have the right to an independent court. Referring to the bill... to the bill already adopted, the Senate print No 932, I would like to comment on a few issues, all the more so because unfortunately there was no opportunity for this, although my representative, director Mirosław Wróblewski, was present at the committee meeting. The first point I would like to draw attention to is the legislative procedure. We are discussing the parliamentary project, and I would say, in detail, the level of advancement of the various solutions that are included in this project may seem to be such that perhaps not necessarily, and not so completely, it was a parliamentary project. But I think we have to believe the Minister's words and what the Minister has declared here publicly. What is characteristic, however, is this very fast proceding mode. At a time when we are dealing with laws of systemic importance, laws that not only solve systemic issues, but also have an impact on the lives of many people, and here I mean both those who are going to run or are already running for the highest judicial positions, as well as those who are going to be affected by age discrimination, as far as the supplementary application is concerned, one can expect that such projects will be conducted in a certain, you can say, time-expanding, so that you can think about everyone... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...possibly potential errors that are included in the bill. This is the first case. Second line. I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Project by the Office for Sejm Analysis has been considered to be one which does not fall within the scope of, you can say, interest in European law and has not been evaluated in this regard, and that in itself, I think, should raise serious doubts due to 2 circumstances or even 3. The first fact is that, from the judgment C-64/16, which was concerned, it can be said that the Portuguese equivalent of "Iustitii', from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, follows that Article. 19 The Treaty on European Union, which refers to the need to guarantee effective legal protection in the European Union, requires, however, that national law, which concerns judicial regulation, should also be assessed and analysed in the light of European law. That's the first reason. The second reason is that, as has already been discussed today, the law introduces solutions which can be considered age discrimination, while age discrimination issues are recognised as an element of European law and, therefore, the project should be assessed and never evaluated. And then I'm going to talk about what kind of case it is and how it could have been solved differently, and unfortunately, it hasn't been solved in this project. And the third fact, who knows whether in this context it is not the most important one, namely that tomorrow at 11.00 the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Celmer case will be pronounced, which refers to whether Poland can be issued on the basis of a European arrest warrant in a situation where there is a threat to the independence of the judiciary. Tomorrow at 11:00, we'll know that sentence. This is a situation where our national regulations will be assessed from the point of view of European law. So that I find it difficult to agree that this is not a matter of interest or within the scope of European law. I will now address the specific issues that are included in the project, which are the subject of analysis and which will be considered. It seems to me that one of the most important solutions is that the project introduces, it can be said, very limited possibilities to appeal against the decision of the National Judicial Council on the competition for the positions of Supreme Court. It can be said that, to a large extent, regulation boils down to the fact that this appeal will exist, but it will not hold back the whole procedure. Therefore, it is a departure from the existing rules and this candidate who loses will only have the right to expect to be included in subsequent competitions if they appear. You might say it's such a consolation prize that in the next competitions it's going to be a vending machine. From the point of view of the standards of this type of restriction, which are in effect ineffective because they do not result in a suspension of the competition and in fact the decision of the National Judicial Council is binding here, should be considered as in breach of Article. 45 constitutions, i.e. both the right to court and the right to appeal. The project will lead to this appeal being de facto an illusory institution. I am not saying something too unexpected for you here, because when we look at the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, on page 9, 10 of the Senate opinion, we will see that this is basically the strongest point of this opinion, indicating that this solution is contrary to the principles of a democratic rule of law. If we are already talking about the whole contest procedure and about the need to fill free judicial positions as a result of the adoption of the Supreme Court Act, then we must remember one fact publicly known, that the National Judicial Council has assessed 8 people to act as Supreme Court judge, some of them are directors of cathedrals, e.g. heads of the cathedrals of criminal proceedings, and these people have been waiting for the President's decision for over a year. So a person who is the head of the cathedral of criminal law or criminal proceedings and who, I think, has the highest possible qualifications, at the age of, of course, well under 65 or 60, is not considered worthy of being a judge of the Supreme Court. I think it's worth remembering, because it's sure... Of course, the decision is the President's, but in this context we must also remember it. I would like to point out one more thing concerning this right of appeal. The right to appeal is something extremely fundamental, especially in business relations. Maybe I'll go back to the minister's character again. The Minister himself was once in such a situation that he was dismissed from the delegation and sought to have the right to a fair judicial review. Moreover, as an ombudsman at the beginning of my term of office, I intervened on this issue, agreeing that the appeal from the delegation should actually be subject to judicial review. The second point is what was raised in the opinion, which is an issue of equal access to public service by the possibility of the National Judicial Council rejecting the candidate for the Supreme Court without justification. Art. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second sentence of the Act on the Constitutional Tribunal provides that the National Judicial Board rejects an appeal which does not comply with the formal requirements or is not admissible for other reasons. And here I have doubts that entrusting the National Judicial Council with this kind of possibility does not mean going too far. In fact, it can block the appeal, the court. Another point I would like to draw attention to is the changes in the procedure for the opinion of candidates for judges. Namely according to the new article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in justified cases, it will be possible to appoint a team, which will consist not of three but of more members of the National Judicial Board. And the question arises as to how to justify such a necessity. It is a requirement that this team should include both... short-term Members and Senators as well as judges. One can imagine a situation in which such a team will consist, for example. out of 7 people, 6 of whom will be politicians, and only 1 person will be a judge. The question arises as to whether the constitutional principle of division of power will not be infringed because of too much participation in this procedure by politicians, Members and Senators. It is worth pointing out that one of the changes relates to the fact that the team can present a list of recommended candidates even if they do not deliver the required documents. This is clearly provided for by the law. The question arises as to why this is happening. Is this because perhaps it would be difficult at the moment to obtain the opinion of the college of the court, and this would be necessary to carry out the whole procedure quickly? It seems that the purpose of this regulation may be to speed up the procedure in order to close the process of the appointment of these new candidates, the new Supreme Court judges as soon as possible. The next point is, of course, the amendments to the Supreme Court Act. Here, there may be great doubts as to why a change is suddenly being made to reduce the number of judicial positions that must be filled in order to identify these 5 candidates to serve as the first President of the Supreme Court. This number is lowered from 110 to 2/3, which is up to 80. We can, of course, wonder what the reason for this change is. And since we are talking about the nominations of judges, I would also like to point out that the bill contains one particular legislative error, which I think should be picked up at earlier stages of legislative work and has not been caught. That is, the law provides that it should be she will also be the contest that is currently underway. Art. 22 of the Act, i.e. The transitional provisions refer to this. This is a rather unusual procedure, that there is a competition, and during it we change the rules and we say that the bill will refer to it. Moreover, the entry into force of the rules is set in such a way that the law will in principle enter into force the day after the announcement. She'll be coming in the day after the announcement. Art. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 The Act provides that additional supporting documents must be submitted within 7 days. And in this provision, there is a reference to Article. 31 §2a of the Law on the Supreme Court, which is to determine what these documents are to be. The problem is that when we look at the bill and look at several pages earlier, in an article in the Supreme Court Act which the Sejm has adopted and which you are debating, there is no article. 31 §2a. There's art. 31 §3a, i.e. this is a manifest legislative error. You can now think about the consequences of this. I know life; probably soon it will be interpreted that it is an obvious mistake that it was not about that, but I would like to point out that this type of technical error has become entangled in the bill. But it does matter, because perhaps someone will have the right to present doubts: what then, what documents do I have to present when there is a reference to a provision that is not in the bill? So that I recommend a comparison of art. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 Supreme Court Act and a look at the article. 31 §2a and Art. 31 §3a. As I said, in my opinion, there is no article in the Act. 31 §2a. High Izbo, I would like to point out that what of course raises great doubts and already here was discussed and in the morning, and during the previous work on the Supreme Court Act, this is a limitation concerning the possession by judges and assesors of purely Polish citizenship. What's changed since that debate? First of all, it has changed that there have been specific individuals. They, among others, are: They came to my office. Which will be wronged by this provision. Secondly, it has changed that the Ministry has tried to collect declarations on citizenship, but this has been challenged as having no legal basis. That's why there's an art now. 20, which colludes the incorrect practice of collecting personal data on citizenship. And the third thing that has changed is this, you can say, attempt to correct the situation, which is to introduce such a specific appeal to the National Council of Courts in a situation where a judge would like to maintain this citizenship. However, in my opinion, it is still questionable from the point of view of constitutional principles whether a judge can be put in such a situation. I stress that for many people who have different citizenships, for various reasons, it is not a question of loyalty in my opinion. Sometimes it is a question of having citizenship because of their parents, because of the fact that they are not of any other family origin. And this could be a situation that affects both current judges and people who might want to be judges in the future. In this way, access to the public service will be blocked because they will not want to make such an important life decision as giving up this other citizenship. So I would point out that this constitutional problem is constantly emerging here. Finally, I would like to point out that the law provides for different changes, it can be said, in detail, concerning the functioning of common courts. Some of these issues have already been discussed. The first such case is the abolition of the quorum rule. Well, if we're dealing with collegial bodies to make certain decisions, the quorum rule is a guarantee for everyone, for everyone, so that decisions are not taken rashly, too quickly, so that we can... that everyone is notified. If we give up the quorum at the first stage of decision-making, we begin to wonder what this is meant to do and whether it is not about the fact that the minority has an impact on decisions that would be taken and should be taken by the majority. If we imagine that we can manipulate the way we report this meeting and at the same time give up the quorum... We can lead to a situation in which binding decisions will be taken, but at the same time they will not have this, one can say what is most important, namely a kind of legitimacy. The second point which, I think, is also important for this day-to-day functioning of the courts is the question of limiting the competence of the College of Appeals. If we change the way judges operate and the division of activities changes in such a way as to change the scope of their duties and, in particular, to move to another department of the court, the judge who does not agree may appeal to the College of the Court of Appeal, i.e., his colleagues from the judiciary. Why is that? It has a guarantee function. It's not a thing, let's say, delicate and meaningless, whether a judge who is a judge of the criminal department is supposed to move overnight to the department of perpetual books or to the civil department. In this way, it is possible to make various decisions and even influence the formations of judges in various cases. And here the College of Appeals gives in my opinion greater guarantees of independent verification of such a decision than the National Judicial Council, to which the resolution of such an objection is transferred. So that's... I think it's worth paying attention to. And in this context, please bear in mind that this is the situation that we may have here a judge from the criminal department, who is suddenly de facto dismissed because he is being transferred to the civilian department. These are, in my opinion, extremely important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to stress that these are extremely serious matters because they concern our future as a democratic state. But what is also important and what Mr Terminski pointed out is the issue of introducing rules on the characteristics of discrimination based on age. And that's what I'd like to focus on for a while. If we look at European law, we will see that there are two types of age discrimination rulings. So we've got a ruling on, you know, early retirement. I'm saying it in a nutshell. - or various provisions which constitute discrimination on grounds of age. But we also have provisions in force in the various departments, which lay down certain rules, you can say, the maximum age to which you can apply, wanting to be accepted for a specific service. And there was one ruling, a Wolf ruling. That concerned firefighters and reduced age to 20 years. Which means you can apply to become a firefighter if you're not more than 20 years old. The Court of Justice of the European Union said that such solutions are incompatible with European law because they are not justified on objective grounds, and the only thing that could justify such solutions is the economics of the functioning of the State, the rationalness of public spending. So, since we're spending money on training, we should have a guarantee that a person who's been trained in a way... I mean. that the public will benefit from these measures because of the service of this person. So it would be a rule that if you work, you have to work for the next 10, 15, 20 years. And if the Ministry had designed the rules like this, i.e. If it were written that people of all ages may get a supplemental application, but provided they work for at least 10 or 15 years, it would probably meet the criteria of European law. But this does not, in my opinion, meet these criteria in the current situation. And above all, this was not even the subject of consideration or analysis for European law at all. High Izbo, I am aware of what the purpose of this bill was and in general the preparation of this bill. In my opinion, this draft law would not have appeared if it had not been for the resolution of the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges of 28 June and the uniform solidarity of the Supreme Court judges expressed before the first Supreme Court President, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf. Moreover, this project would not have been created if it had not been for what happened on 4 July, showing respect by the Polish society, which welcomed you to the first president of the Supreme Court entering the building of the Supreme Court... [[Bullshit.]] ...and support from various international institutions. This is, in my opinion, the purpose of this law: it is about fixing the situation that arose. And in general, this means continuing to subjugate the judiciary to politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Zientarski was the first to speak. [[And the questions?]] [[And the questions?]] [[What questions?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's got questions? [[Me, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please... [[I'd like to make a formal request.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u319	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 48 Rules of Procedure, formal request for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u320	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of the motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u321	No, no, no. I object. [[There you go.]] Well, once again, you're closing the opposition's mouth. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I understand that... [[Calm down, please!]] If you're outnumbered, does that mean you can do anything? That's what this is about, isn't it? I object, strongly opposed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The Senators of the Civic Platform Club are leaving the room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u322	Who's in favour of Senator Martynowski's motion? Who's against it? [[Is it a vote yet?]] We're voting. Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. 46 senators voted... [[Voting No 5]] I'm saying there's no quorum. We are therefore continuing to discuss... Are there any questions for the spokesperson? No. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Zientarski was the first to speak. [[Well, Mr. Marshal...]] There's no senator. Mr. Senator Klich. [[There isn't.]] There's no senator. Senator Zdrojewska. [[There isn't.]] [[There isn't!]] You don't have a senator. Senator Augustine. [[There isn't.]] [[I'm here!]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine. Five minutes. [[Voice from the room: There it is!]] [[So am I.]] You weren't there, Senator. Senator Augustine, five minutes, please. [[What do you mean, it wasn't?]] [[But you weren't there.]] It wasn't. We can check on the tape, Mr. Senator. [[Yeah, on tape.]] [[Mr. Marshal, don't make this House a circus!]] Senator Augustine, please. [[You're making a circus out of this House!]] I'm asking you to calm down. If one of the senators wants to cool off and go outside, you're welcome. [[Go outside, sir.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, you didn't allow...]] Five minutes, Mr. Senator. You're welcome. [[But at the end of the day...]] [[Senator Zientarski now.]] [[Mr. Marshal, will I be allowed to speak in the discussion?]] Mr. Senator, I've been calling you out. You weren't... You weren't in the O.R. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You weren't in the O.R. [[Voice from the hall: Are you in such a hurry?]] [[You have ignored this House.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[So you're not gonna give me the floor, are you?]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine. [[About the formal issue.]] [[On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal is reporting.]] I gave Senator Augustine the floor. If you can allow your party buddy to speak, you're welcome. You're welcome. [[I asked your marshal if you'd give me the floor.]] I gave you the floor, but you weren't in the O.R. [[He's...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine. Senator Augustine, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the guru room...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u323	In these absolutely outrageous circumstances... [[The voice is gone...]] [[I'm resigning...]] [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...I have the task of responding to this bill that you are submitting. First of all, and at the very beginning, it must be said that the arguments which have been put forward here are clearly missing the truth as a justification for the implementation of these provisions. It is embarrassing that once again representatives of the Ministry of Justice without embarrassment propose to the High House that constitutional rules be violated. When we ask the real reasons for this law, all we have left is to apply the Roman principle of cui bono, who can benefit from it? Well, it must be said with all determination that the introduction of this law will not benefit an ordinary citizen at all... [[He's just gonna lose it.]] ...and politicising the courts is against society. We had politicized courts and people protested against it. It was one of the general changes in Poland. You are trying to reverse this change, so to throw away the achievements of so many people who fought for it, so that the courts would not be subordinated to any party, including the PiS, any party. Since you are restricting speaking time, I am ending this part and I would like to say this: you are trying, in my opinion, not to strengthen the application of justice in Poland, but to escape justice. "The justice of the European Court of Justice, the justice of the Court of State, which has so far been led by President Gersdorf, who does not suit you, before the justice of the ordinary courts, when you violate the law when there is a manifest lie and even a statement of falsehood in the majesty of the High House. In my opinion, even today could have happened. You run from justice because you know that the gravest sin that is committed here, also in this bill, is a violation of the fundamental law, a violation of the constitution. That's why today is a sad day because it ends a technological cycle with which power wants to control its citizens. You leave the justice system, and even who knows if the service called to uphold justice will serve the citizens in order to serve the power, your authority. That's why there can't be a bill of consent. And we're going to protest in every way we can, we're going to seek public support, and we're going to object to you running away from one more justice: from the justice of the elections. For perhaps you need the Supreme Court to escape the righteous judgment of Poles. [[Voice from the room: Abroad. In Germany.]] You're not gonna make it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Comrade!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u324	Thank you. Senator Zientarski. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u325	Five minutes. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! High Izbo! I was going to say more, but because of the time constraints, I'm going to focus on my profession. High Izbo, a lawyer is a factor in justice. Lawyers, the vast majority of constitutionalists... I participate in the conventions of the cathedrals of constitutional law, I know the position of all cathedrals, I know the position of associations, our corporations, i.e. local governments, both counsellors and lawyers... And I'm not talking about the comparison of authority anymore. I'm sorry. Professor Strzembosz or Minister of Ziobra, or you... I think that neither the Minister nor the Minister present will ever work out. [[You discredit people.]] No, I'm just trying to measure to the real size. [[To your measure.]] No. And I have to say it out loud: both lawyers, that is, participants in the proceedings... Starting with judges who have a duty to apply the constitution directly... It is not the Constitutional Tribunal that is against the application of the Constitution, but every judge, every participant in the proceedings, who has the right and obligation to invoke the Constitution. The Court merely has the power, as a negative legislator, to simply eliminate the non-constitutional provision from the act in question. This isn't a situation here. Legal duality is therefore being created. There is a resolution of the Supreme Court that your first President is the first President of the Supreme Court, and there are clear judgments of the Constitutional Court, which have finally been published, and there are three properly elected judges who have not been allowed to rule, and in their place, already taken the place, have been introduced new. This is constitutional law. And no one, most of them, will decide, won't cross the authority. Forgive the comparison, but Nikita Khrushchev once asked us about it. How many armies does the pope have, right? [[Division.]] Division. And I laughed and he found out. No. We measure the authority. And the judges. It was mentioned here. They're not manipulated people, that those 10,000 to 18... these are people who know what a constitution means, because they're lawyers, they're sworn to this constitution. That's not enough, it's not just the judges who pledge to the constitution. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: lawyers have made it clear, lawyers have also stated that the constitution is being violated in many cases concerning, of course, the judiciary and that they will raise it. They're gonna pick it up in the tribunals... [[Voice from the room: Abroad.]] Not abroad, but in our tribunals, because European tribunals are our tribunals. Ours, because we are in the European Union, we have adopted treaties. And there will be settlements. Lawyer never, in a state of war, feared either. I am proud that on the 25th anniversary of my freedom I received a medal of freedom for my posture in the martial law. And in martial law, the most outstanding lawyers... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Mr. Senator, speaking time...]] ...they weren't afraid. And what did the commune bring? [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to the conclusion.]] I'm just gonna finish. [[You're welcome.]] She introduced an age ban on being a member of the barrister's team to prevent Sile-Nowicki from being a lawyer. That was the situation, ladies and gentlemen. And so do you. You're old enough to eliminate a man. But the commune didn't come up with the idea of punishing lawyers for their speeches and creating a politically dependent Disciplinary Chamber. You're doing it. Think about it, 'cause the lawyer's gonna be free forever... [[Mr. Senator, but...]] ...the conscience of the citizens... [[Thank you.]] ...in front of all the courts... [[Thank you very much.]] ...Polish and European. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u326	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Klich, you're welcome. Please, five minutes, in accordance with our common arrangements. [[Not in common.]] [[Not in common.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u327	This is the day, ladies and gentlemen, when the crawling coup finally crawled to the surface, today here in this House. You didn't get us used to the fact that you repeatedly broke the Constitution in the Seym and the Senate. No, we're not used to it. Every time we scored it, every time we talked about it out loud. And every time, the public also spoke about it loudly, including those people who stood here for a few hours today under the walls of the Senate to manifest their attachment to value. [[They're still standing.]] To these values... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But don't disturb the senator.]] ...which were at the heart of the great movement of Solidarity and which, with the victory of the movement of Solidarity, were introduced into the Polish political system. These values are among others. the rule of law. This rule of law, which states that Poland is a democratic legal state, is enshrined in Article. 2 Constitutions, today again in this House, is being violated. I assume you won't care about it in the vote because you don't care about the constitution because you think it's a piece of paper. And meanwhile, this is a social agreement, this is the agreement that has regulated political and public life in Poland for many years, an agreement which, with its procedures and institutions, is the development of a great movement of Solidarity. You broke the constitution again. But the greatest evil you do to an average citizen. Because it's Jan Nowak, and Józef Kowalski will be the victim of this politicization of the court. He will be the one who will be deprived of the guarantee that if he goes to court and wants to seek justice there, he will not get justice blindfolded. Because this court will be a political court, because this court will be a tool in the hands of politicians, because this court will not guarantee the most important thing: objective judgment. And since we read in this bill that a candidate for a Supreme Court judge is deprived of the possibility of effective appeal against the decisions of the KRS... Because it may appeal, but so what if the decision has already been made, it is valid and it is implemented. It's completely absurd, it's not from our civilization. Since I read about the fact that it is possible to be effectively designated or proposed by the National Court of Justice despite the fact that the relevant documentation has not been provided, and the Minister confirms this, it means that the National Court of Justice will act differently from any other institution to which recruitment is organised, ranging from the large ones to the small ones. If it turns out that by means of a quorum reduction procedure, when choosing a candidate for the first President of the Supreme Court, one wants to lose a person and prefer another, that means that the law ceases to have its meaning, that is to say that the law is adapted to staff decisions rather than staff decisions to the legal framework. Unfortunately, that puts us no longer in the East, but among the Republics of Bantustan. Poland thus descends down, Poland thus loses the opinion of the legal country, and the Pole will not very much know who to turn to if he wants to obtain an objective and law-abiding sentence. You're responsible for all of this. And it's not just responsibility to God and history, it's also responsibility to the citizens, here, now, in the future, to those who are still standing behind the Senate walls, chanting in defence of what's most important: the independence of the judiciary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u328	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome. [[These are speeches to these people, not to us. A raised voice indicates that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u329	Ladies and gentlemen! I have prepared here a very interesting statement to describe it, a statement of experts of the Batory Foundation, excellent names, professors who prove that all these changes that have been prepared result in the annulment of the act initiating the procedure for the appointment of judges being invalid. I mean, we can imagine something that could be called into question because mistakes were made... [[Of course.]] Only crazy people could write so many bad laws. Which we've been sitting here for the seventh or eighth time. And we're changing these laws? What's this? How does this show your competence? The Ministry, which dozens of judges, distinguished lawyers hires, can't write a proper bill? You're doing a reform that hasn't even started yet. At the moment, we are in such a situation that this trial is just beginning, and we already know that you have lowered the criteria for judges, that you have destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, which has practically stopped working... What did this lead to? This is a reform that is a complete deformity that has completely failed. And again, there's some desperate attempt to do something, to save... But we don't really know what it is. I'll ask, Minister, where's your principal, where's Mr. Ziobro? Why can't we see him here? Last time he was here was, like, a year ago. Yes? When? I don't remember anymore. [[A year and a half ago.]] One and a half even... After all, he hides behind his ministers, ladies and gentlemen, hiding behind his MPs... [[But, Senator, please, get to the point, because it's...]] I'm talking to the point. [[... runs away from...]] Don't interrupt me, Mr. Marshal. [[You know...]] He's hiding behind... [[But, Senator, I have the right to draw your attention. Please don't pay any attention to me, and I'm asking you to do something about it. Excuse me.]] But I'm talking to the point, Mr. Marshal. That's my opinion, and I suggest you... It's not only that you've limited our speaking time to five minutes, you're interrupting me. This is really wrong, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry. [[I'm just really...]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[...please return to the subject.]] Minister Ziobro hides not only behind his ministers, his subordinates, but also behind his Members. And we're getting so-called parliamentary projects, but I don't think anyone in this room has any doubts where they're being prepared. At least I don't have that kind of doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the Constitutional Tribunal law, we discussed what this proper liquidation of the Court's work will bring to society, which will mean that the Court will stop working. Now we need to think about what it's going to do to get these judges wrong. [[There are no words...]] The fact that no sentence is really going to be certain is what I'm paying attention to. and that judgments may be called into question. Mr Ombudsperson said that once again we are incompatible with EU guidelines, with EU law, and we will have such a situation that judgments can be challenged. Who's gonna be responsible for this? Who will bear the responsibility, e.g. for huge consequences for the Polish economy, which can take place because companies that invest in Poland will be suing the Polish country? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask who will guarantee us... What is the situation of a Polish citizen when all judicial and prosecutorial authority is in the hands of one person, one party? Who's gonna give a citizen who's gonna be in a dispute with you any chance of winning a trial if there's gonna be a prosecutor... [[Senator, time's up.]] Okay, I'm almost done. That's the last sentence. [[But it's gone, so please...]] ...if there's a prosecutor... [[...to get to the bottom of this.]] ...who will represent the state, and the judge who will be elected, appointed in a state-dependent manner? Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u330	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Who will pay for painting Parliament?]] [[Voice from the room: I guess I am.]] [[Voice from the room: We!]] [[Okay, we'll pay.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I'm gonna ask you to calm down. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! Calm down, Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Propaganda of Law and Justice tells Poles that the aim of judicial change is to improve justice. If this was the case with all three years of manipulation of the Law and Justice around the rule of law and justice in Poland, they ended in a complete waste. The Constitutional Tribunal issued more than 2 times less judgments in 2017 than in 2015. About 150% increased the number of cases that are more than 1 year old, by 200% The number of cases that take place for more than 2 years. More than 2/3 of the cases that go to the prosecution have no follow-up are not transferred to the courts. The number of vacancies at all levels of justice is increasing. There are over 40 judges missing from the Supreme Court, administrative courts Around 10, in appeals over 70, in the district close to 400, in the district It's about 100. There are over 600 vacancies in total. That's the result. Proof of failure? Well, no, Your Senate, because without undermining the role of the courts, I do not think that this is about improving judicial action. It's about political power over the courts. From this perspective, increasing judicial failure is of little importance. It's a cost, but it won't be borne by the party, but it will be borne by citizens who will be served worse, longer, and thus more expensive. This failure is even at the hands of the ruling party, because it allows us to identify justice as a sick element of a system that needs to be repaired... who? Party. And that's the real effect it's about. The Sovereign is to be convinced that the justice system is so corrupt that he needs to be thrown into the dumpster and replaced with a new one. What's that? Named by the party. So what if you have to break the constitution while you're at it? It is only important to swallow it as soon as possible, so that the sense of disgust lasts as short as possible. That is why this extraordinary haste which taunts the role of Members and Senators, and especially of Senators, who assigned them the ability to reflect must replace, even today, with reflection. So what's the PiS fighting for? In order to build a system in Poland under the pretext of fighting for judicial recovery, in which the constitutional principle of democracy, which is the division of power, is simply to be abolished. High Senate, the three divisions of power are not Only the creation of intellectuals or political scientists. It is a conclusion from the darkest period of the world and Europe, which also began innocently, and even from the caring-sounding words and actions that resulted in the submission of subsequent parties, supposedly ill-functioning, spheres of public life. In order to prevent Europe from repeating these experiences, a reduction in party power has been widely introduced, removing politicians from the judiciary and civil liberties, including freedom of expression, by introducing further terms of office and free elections. And today, unfortunately, we are witnessing how in Poland politicians who dream of total power, such dreams come true. In Poland, the High Senate, democracy dies before our eyes and totalitarianism is born. That's not an exaggeration. [[Applause]] It's time to talk about it out loud. Just as 100 years ago, at the beginning of the 20th century, innocently, with mouthfuls of phrases and promises to the people, you are looking for and pointing out constantly new enemies, it is pointed out that the prescription for all the evil of this world is to submit all the parties and one leader, including those spheres of public life that should never be subject to politicians. I believe the Poles will read it. These groups of people who support us at the Senate today, those groups that gather in hundreds of cities in Poland, under courts, strengthen my belief that this faith is not unfounded. And they'll judge politicians for destroying democracy for breaking the constitution. The destruction of the courts will not protect anyone from judgment, neither will you, Senators, who will lay hands on the destruction of the courts. I propose an amendment to this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u332	Thank you. Senator Florek. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But is it... Unsigned amendment. [[Voice from the room: Signed.]] Upstairs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, KRS, Supreme Court You're doing it. There's an exchange of judges, there's pressure on judges. Some judges have a back problem. Fortunately, such judges are very few. The Supreme Court will be an impostor, as will the Constitutional Tribunal of your Master Julia Przyłębska. In the Supreme Court is the Disciplinary Chamber, as well as the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. The first division examines the electoral protests and states the validity of the elections. You want full control of the election. You're very sensitive about your values and your views. You're above the law. You want to control everything and everyone. You have no right to change your system without changing the constitution you swore to. [[Applause]] There's a country I've had the opportunity to work in for 2.5 years A country that was very tolerant, a country that was developing. The priest was traveling 900 km to us, a Catholic priest, to celebrate Mass in this country. After the election, after the new Prime Minister came to power, and then the president, the country changed. Erdoğan says the West is on the brink of collapse, changing historical politics, changing education in schools, subjugating courts, media, military, police, using religion. He's building the biggest airport in the world in Istanbul. Ladies and gentlemen, is that what you're trying to do? What's the resemblance to that? Congratulations on the pattern, then. You've reached a point where there's no turning back, because there's going to be serious consequences, and you've got something to be afraid of. That's why you're protecting yourselves: the prosecution, the courts, the military, the police, the media, the pardon against conviction. And I'm sure it's about approving the election result. You underestimate Poles. There's gonna be a time when you're gonna pay for what you're doing. And I hope this moment comes as soon as possible. I'd like to thank you very much. Hey, guys, we can hear you out there. Thank you for having our support in you because... [[Applause]] ...that kind of support is needed we all need Poland, and above all we need Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose an amendment. For the sake of time, I'm not going to discuss it extensively. But in the article. 1 in point 6 in point (a) and the words "after consultation' shall be converted into "in agreement'. There is a fundamental difference between reaching an opinion and agreeing on something. Mr. Marshal, I report... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u334	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In my worst dreams, I did not think that I would come after years of freedom to return to the Polish People's Republic, where Parliament is slowly becoming a fake, where the government becomes the doer of the will of the Central Committee, and the judiciary from independent turns into a subordinate judiciary. In a short time, we have led to a dramatic situation. Minister Brudziński on Twitter wrote that if in America such demonstrators would attack police officers as here Although the demonstrators have broken hands. They'd just seen it. So we have to say that in this America, if even a crazy president like Donald Trump groveling in front of... [[Putin.]] ...Putin attacked even one Supreme Court judge, it would end in impeachment and removal from office. [[Applause]] And you're destroying the entire Supreme Court. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You have to say that history is the teacher of life. On the one hand, we have Churchill, who says that democracy is the worst system, but no one has come up with a better one. Well, it's hard because you have to argue, you have to debate, there has to be a balance of power. There are simpler solutions. I will give you an example of a young doctor of philosophy who did a PhD at the age of 24 with a Jewish scholar in Heidelberg. At first he had a lot of doubts, but he met a strong leader and said something like this: "I am delighted because he has everything thought out. I love him because he's great and simple at the same time, which makes him a genius. Then he radicalized himself and said, "If we gain power, we will never give it back. " And when he became minister, he said to the judges: "A strong state must be able to remove unfit officials. This also applies to judges. The concept of indiscretion of judges was born in a foreign world of intellectuals, in a world of hostile nation. This was said by a young doctor of philosophy, initially about completely peaceful views, which ended tragically as a war criminal Joseph Goebbels. Is that supposed to be an example to us? [[Applause]] Is this the way we're supposed to go? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what the consequences are. Those who embezzle the constitution will be carried because we will not influence the judges. It's the independent judges that's gonna serve their sentence. But if a party of decent people were to be formed, none of you would have been allowed in this party. The only good news is, I don't think there will be a final judgment in Poland, because the Creator is too old to be a judge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u336	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is another court day, a court day for Polish parliamentarianism, a court day for Polish justice, a court day for Poland. This is the day when PiS, in colloquially speaking, pushes the knee, using force to push the door behind which you leave Poland, which we once fought for, which we dreamed of and which we built together in the last 30 years. Poland, which was born of our dreams, our struggle, our desires to live in a normal system that would fit into the civilizational achievements of Europe built according to Latin patterns. Poland built on the three divisions of power as a foundation of order, which standardizes the system of states forming a European community, a community based on the system of values which we are deleting today by this law. Because it must also be looked at in the context of other laws that Parliament has passed. It was about that. The Act on the Constitutional Court, on the prosecutor's office, on the civil service, on the public media is the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator and many other laws which in fact lead to the dismantling of a democratic rule of law. And I will allow myself to draw memory, to appeal to the period when we were building solidarity, when our dreams of free, sovereign Poland began to be realized, when the good change there, a good change from the period of.Solidarity, as a matter of course, demanded that the principle of independence of the judge and independence of the courts should be a part of the order of the future Poland. He also talked about it then and then sleep. Lech Kaczyński, whom you refer to as well. And what is the fundamental purpose of this law, apart from being included in this context in the dismantling of a democratic rule of law? Well, the goal is to speed up staff exchanges in the Supreme Court, so that we can choose the so-called. his first President of the Supreme Court. Well, it is obvious to all those who have been watching the events of recent weeks and such a legislative rush in this matter. As for the substantive assessment, I fully agree with the statement by the Ombudsman, Dr. Bodnar. I fully identify with this argument. I think she's completely legitimate. You can only emphasize once again And that was today when the questions were raised many times. What will be the internal and international impact on the safety of legal trade and in Poland and internationally. I think it is important to note that the contested laws have nothing to do with the electoral campaign and often cited in the speeches of PiS politicians the need for rapid reform of the judiciary to improve the process, speed up proceedings, speed up the issuing of judgments. There's no mention of that in these laws. They're just being introduced to deal with current political goals in an instrumental way. These provisions, of course, violate many articles of the Constitution I mean, it's like an article. 173, which speaks of the principle of division of power It also includes provisions that limit the influence of the judiciary on the appointment of judges. Well, that's a clear violation of the constitution. I'm skipping... I'm not ignoring it. I also mention the principles of good legislation, correct legislation, which, after all, is openly violated by this law. Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of peerel here today. Indeed, it can be said that the Law and Justice as if in their pursuit of the elimination of our common acquis I will say that the achievements of the Third Republic, in this pursuit and in this attempt to reverse the situation, really drives us into the times of peerel, when the justice system was subject to power, the power for which was the political party that then had a monopoly. It's a very dangerous phenomenon, because... [[Mr. Senator, because it's time...]] ...with the power of such a party, and once with the power of another party. And that's a dangerous tool. [[You're welcome...]] We're crossing, Mr. Marshal, Rubicon... [[But you're out of time, Mr. Senator. I'm the watchman.]] To conclude, I would like to say that both this law and earlier legislation have placed us on the margins of the European Community of solutions which have introduced liberal parliamentary democracy as a state system. We stand aside, on the margins of these countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u338	Senator Borusewicz, please. Mr. Marshal, here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The government races against time. He races against time, and that's how he deals with these laws. Instantly, from the march, you can say: from the shoe. This is bad, this is bad, Mr. Marshal, the Senate or the majority of the Senate is joining us. And it shortens once again the possibility of senators from 10 or more than 15 minutes, to 5 minutes by way of an important act. Wrong. Mr. Marshal, you joined this race. It lowers the Senate's seriousness. This is actually a court day for the court. The legal system is being demolished. What effect will it have? Well, for us, by 2020, the president of the Supreme Court will be Professor Margaret Gersdorf, and you will not. That's the first result. And he's not just gonna be president for us, he's gonna be president for the whole legal world... [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] ...in Europe. It's clear that's gonna happen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The year is already a good change when it comes to common justice. You've changed the rules of this court, the appointment of presidents, vice presidents, heads of departments, etc., etc. What was the result? Instead of narrowing things down, things increased and the number of cases to be dealt with increased. And it was supposed to be the other way around, because that's what the reform was supposed to be about. You're saying it's a reform. The Constitutional Tribunal, to reform it, was 8 laws, month after month. Supreme Court, the fifth law, and that will probably not be the end of it. That's the plan, right? This is the general plan. This is simply an attempt to master a situation in which the magnanimous said not. They want to be rude, and they want the courts to be independent. And we have the same goal. We will defend these courts. Still, even though we're overvoted. The fact that you won the election... That's a note. also to the Minister, because you are a politician; do not pretend to be an official, you are a politician in the pure sense of the word. Just because you won the election doesn't mean you can do whatever you want. It wasn't allowed, and it won't. The law, in addition to changes in the Supreme Court, in common courts where quorum is abolished in general assemblies... Even in canary breeding associations, the quorum must be taken into account in the decision-making situation. Doesn't the general court assembly have to? Doesn't the college of courts have to? You're creating a curiosity situation. Well, curiosity. To resist the rebellion of the judges? No! It's a defense by judges of the independence of the courts. That's the judge's gun. The law amends the article. Five about the D.A.'s office. I'll read... [[But, Mr. Marshal, don't...]] Okay, okay, [[I don't know if there's gonna be time, but please, maybe...]] Well, the Attorney General oversees strict compliance by all authorities, offices at voivodeship, district, municipal level and by social economy units... etc. And I'll read the next one... [[But, Mr. Marshal, I don't know if you can, because it's time...]] Okay, okay, The prosecutor may participate on the rights of a party or a participant in any proceedings conducted by public authorities and administrations, courts, tribunals... etc., etc. These are similar terms... [[You're already way past time...]] They're similar... [[But you're way out of time.]] These are similar terms, Mr. Marshal, you will admit... [[But...]] Will you admit it? [[But I, Mr. Marshal, am not...]] The first one is in 1950... [[Marshal Stanisław Karczewski: I am not the judge of your speech, but...]] ...and the other... [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. And the other one... [[But you should be done by now.]] ...is from art. 5... [[Not in the future, in the past.]] ...this bill. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] So... ... [[Well, I wouldn't want to turn your marshal off the microphone.]] But, Mr. Marshal... [[I wouldn't want to do that.]] I don't think you will. [[I won't.]] Aren't you gonna do it? [[No.]] Well, thank you for being so kind... [[Thank you very much.]] ...to the marshal refers. That's where I want to stop. I fold... [[You had an amendment when I saw it.]] I am making an amendment that eliminates this article. 5, very dangerous and harmful to the Polish legal system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u340	Mr. Marshal, you've really gone a long way now. Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me, is this going to be a new amendment?]] Mr. Marshal, is this going to be a new amendment, do you have it, or have you already made it? [[I put it together.]] It's already been complex. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today thousands of people across Poland protests Not only here in Warsaw It is against the practices we apply in this House and before that in the Sejm. Those citizens who are in Warsaw we are hearing at the moment, we have heard the debate on this law all the time. Senator Czudowska says it's only a thousand people... [[No, no, I heard it was 50.]] [[I didn't say that...]] It's only 50 people? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I encourage you... [[I said...]] I encourage you... [[How much?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...senator to go out and see if it's 50... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Allow me to say a few words, colleagues from the Platform as well. [[Hey, guys, time's ticking.]] Let me tell you something. So that I encourage my colleagues in Law and Justice to look out this window and see. That's not 50 people... [[Voice from the room: 3 people.]] ...that's not 100 people. Even if they were two people who said no and did not agree, we should consider their points. But these are thousands, thousands of people in every county city. And not just today, because also in the previous days. People come, protest, fear what we do here in Parliament. This is a sad time and a sad day for our legislation, for legislation. We cannot respect the voice of those people who gather in different places in Poland. These are not just sympathizers or members of the Civic Platform, they are people who are not and have never been organized into any political party, they are thousands of young people, but also older people, including pensioners. For generations there is this movement of protest against those practices that you are applying here in Parliament and forcing us to accept in one way or another. This is the way to nowhere, this is the way that shows that we are destroying democratic standards, all that we have fought for over the years, being young people, in the 1960s, 1970s or 1980s. We have enjoyed this freedom for years since 1989. Ladies and gentlemen, during the questions asked to the rapporteurs I also pointed out one aspect and aspect of this law, namely that in this law we restrict the right of our citizens who have dual citizenship, because they have the nationality of another country, to be able to take positions in this case judges of the Supreme Court or other courts. It's a practice... One senator accused me that I support this question and this doubt the German minority in Poland or some other suspect who would like to take various positions in Poland. But we in the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, are also for this. That's what we pride ourselves on, and that's what we're proud of. To take care of Polonia all over the world. We know how many Poles were leaving, leaving, living and working abroad. If we in Poland apply the principle that work is only for Poles, if such standards can be applied here in Poland, that a person who has other citizenship, apart from Polish citizenship, will not be able to occupy positions in Poland in various offices and institutions, then such practices will also be in other countries. So let's not wonder sometimes that in another country they say that if our countryman has a Pole's Charter, he cannot take a position there in one or another state institution. Let us not be surprised at this, we who sometimes try to teach what standards should be in relation to civil rights, the rights of national minorities. We break them in different ways ourselves. [[Applause]] It is extremely harmful, also for our position, as our compatriots in various places in the world. And finally, the last sentence. What we do here taunts such rules of lawmaking. We have already lost count today, how many times we have amended in recent years the laws relating to the system of justice, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Tribunal, etc. We do it every now and then, six or seven times. Only because these laws are being pushed under the cover of the night, in haste, without preparation. Such practices have so far not been in the Polish Parliament. There have been cases... [[Mr. Senator...]] There have been cases... [[...it's already past your speaking time.]] There have been cases... [[Thank you very much.]] ...that the bill was passed in this way. But today it's common practice. And every time there are laws... [[Now, if you'll excuse me...]] ...wrongly prepared, which needs to be updated. [[Thank you very much.]] And so it will also be with this amendment, in a moment, in a month or two months it will be corrected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u342	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with this... I hear the grunting here: a, it's only 50 people. I want to quickly say and quote that after respect for power to minorities, to opposition, to people who are in minorities, there are other views about true democracy. So this contempt that it's only 50 people shows that you're here for people... [[I didn't just say '50', I said '50'.]] It's not like I'm addressing you, Senator. I'm not addressing you. [[Yeah, but the senator said it.]] [[I didn't say 50.]] I mean, that's the thing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't bother me, or I won't be able to tell you later. [[Mr. Senator...]] And I would like to draw attention to that. And to confirm that... I've asked the senator of the majority, Senator Ambrozik, about the details of the sovereign. The word you love so much today thinks of what you are doing here. Well, I'll read it to you. According to the Kantar Sovereign study, 55% He said that President Andrzej Duda should veto three laws. But that's history. And on May 30, IBRIS asked if what you are doing with courts is what the citizens in Poland expected. And 31% This is the tough, good electorate, says: yes, we expected it, we expected politicians on our behalf to oversee the courts, you can say. A 51% It's against what you're doing in court. April 24, 25, Kantar: 49% considers that the reform is primarily for the benefit of the PIS and 28% That this is a support for a genuine reform of the courts. But of course we respect this minority, which says that this is a good change, in the right direction, that the judge will now be appointed by politicians and that there will be the supervision of politicians over judges. I'm going back to this staff thing, so quickly. Well, the state, by lowering these criteria regarding the election of judges to the Supreme Court, you say... someone who has achievements, a large number of articles, professors' titles, applies to the Supreme Court, and also submits it to a person with a ten-year internship in the district court, but one that's on your mind. And this independent KRS chooses the one with a ten-year internship. The other one, before he cancels. It's all taken. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as if you are outraged that doctors choose the best doctor for surgery or for chief of staff. You're gonna have to say that, too, you're gonna go out on your own? Put them on the wallpaper here, we will choose, politicians, after all, we know better which is better. That's one thing. Secondly, according to this concept, a district doctor with a 10-year internship will now instruct a professor at a medical academy or at a medical university on how to treat. Why? Because he's from your group. Various examples from European history have been cited here, so I will also mention one. Well, at the beginning of the 20th century, a certain system appeared near the eastern border, and it was said: The right Bolshevik, with the trust of the party, can direct anything, no particular skill is needed. [[Applause]] And that's HR policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what Senator Shark asked. Guess today in one of the newspapers it says that the judge who tried 20 times to get a promotion and didn't get it got it, now got it, jumped 2 rungs in a year and became a member of the National Court Register. Oh, that's beautiful! Write it down, paint it up, it's all over. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to say yes. You have to ask yourself, why do you even do that? Just for sanity, when a man sits there, listens to you and watches, he has to ask himself, "Why are you doing this?" I will answer you this: the assassination of the Court was necessary for you to be able to do everything. The Court ruled the acquittal, ruled that the President had the right to exonerate those three people who had not yet been convicted of a final sentence. It's like a court... otherwise, the Court gave the authority to divorce a fiancé. [[Mr. Senator, because it's time for you to say...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, last sentence. [[I'm asking for a conclusion.]] Last sentence. The question is, why do you need the Supreme Court? Well, you've already got the tribunal. Why do you need the Supreme Court? The TK is needed for you to do whatever you want, and the Supreme Court to be able to do it as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u344	Thank you. Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! That's probably the most important question today: why so quickly and why? Why so soon, since today's KRS spokesperson said that the judges to the Supreme Court will not be elected until September. So why today, why so soon? I don't think you're going on vacation so soon, we're gonna have one more or maybe more meetings. [[There's no more, Senator.]] There isn't? [[There isn't.]] Well, you promised us that we'd meet again on the 30th. [[But it's one day, it's not a sitting.]] Well... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me...]] Well, not the sitting, just... [[He gave hope.]] [[I'm just hoping for this Tuesday.]] [[Voice from the room:...hopefully.]] I'm hopeful because I can still... I'm not gonna say... There's so much more to kick. Only the media is free, some of it's left, so you can get on with it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll say to Minister Piebiak: you're having a bad time, you're having a really bad time. 'Cause basically what kind of changes are you making? [[That's good.]] I just want to remind you that so far you have ridiculed and weakened the Constitutional Tribunal. In the Supreme Court, everyone mentions the hearings of the candidates for the Supreme Court jury, who are to judge the judges in the Disciplinary Chamber. I remember when I was in a martial law school, they put in passes, and then the jury took out the benches. Then former Senator Hania Skowrońska, Bogocka-Skowrońska, said that from now on she knows why these are jurors, because the benches are pulling out. And today, the jury... one of the jury candidates says that she's hardly familiar with the law, but she might know... [[Voice from the room: Read.]] [[Read it.]] He can read it. And that's what the jury, the Supreme Court juror, will associate with. [[The jury is...]] We ridiculed another institution. Is that what we want? Did the letter of European lawyers to the Venice Commission on public, not valid for the statements of Mr Warchoł and Muszyński, who spoke about coffee and about your first president... By laughing at the first president today, do you expect respect for the next one you choose? Do you think that the first president or the first president you choose will be the president for all Poles? Who's gonna believe what European institutions are gonna believe that? And who's gonna believe this court? And finally... I never expected in my life that it should be feared that today, in these times, after more than 30 years, a parliamentarians might, for example, be. To go to jail. And yet, it is likely that no one like Mr Szczerba will be charged today for photographing a policeman who was pulling a demonstration or putting a castle on him. And the envoy will be charged with revealing his name. If I'd seen it... [[Voice from the room: But you can't...]] Why is he hiding? The policeman who participated in this intervention is afraid to reveal his name? Well, he should be happy because he's finally defending power! So if it comes to the fact that Mr Szczerba will stand before the High House and his immunity will be lifted, you will question him by the prosecutor who is subject to Mr Ziobra, and then this Member will stand before the court, which Mr Ziobro hand-in-hand... So, what's it gonna be? [[He's gonna be in jail.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal Darling. [[Thank you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're gonna go to jail. We'll go... We'll go... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced here at one of the first meetings, I have announced... And it's not funny anymore. There are young people in custody whose families are looking for after the police stations. This is the beginning. Next thing. And that's the third time I've said it. You're gonna have to... We're gonna have to close... [[Senator, I am very serious about your speaking time.]] So... [[I hear all the time that we're gonna be in jail. But you're welcome... but now...]] Therefore, only the words of Prof. Włodzimierz Wróbel from the Jagiellonian University at the end. [[It's very short, Senator.]] The participation in the procedures laid down by the governing party for seat-taking in the Supreme Court means direct cooperation in the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u346	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator... [[Jesus, there's an amendment! I'm sorry.]] Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the dear Warsawers who gathered at the Senate today! I'd like to hear from all the senators who are fighting for an independent judiciary today... We would like to thank you all for taking time for democracy, for free courts, for other citizens for whom and for whom you are fighting for rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I was hoping for a moment that this amount of errors, this legislative mess, this obvious leap to the Supreme Court, which is so evident in the light of this law, will give you something to think about. Unfortunately, Mr Peterovich's spirit today, as never before, hovers over the Senate. For the first time in this House, just as Mr Peterowicz did, the opportunity to speak and answer questions to the Ombudsman was denied. Our speech was shortened to five minutes. And there it is again. I've talked about this once before, and I'm really sorry to have to repeat it. The use of lex Martynowski. I wonder after a lot of conversations... After all, we will not hide that we from the opposition talk to you quite often, not in the spotlight, but privately and honestly. I wonder... [[In the hallway.]] ...who, what evil spirit pushes all of you, and with you behind the wheel of all of Poland, for a collision course with all of Europe, for someone else's I know that as you are here, not for you individually. The desire for total power, risking the security of all citizens and our position in the European Union After all, there's no denying that a few of your problems you're dealing with... You're wasting your time, you're wasting your time, you're squandering your credit by telling citizens that black is white, you're talking about doing something for the citizen, when you're doing it just for the party and for the lust for power of a few people. Do you know what the password was today? What does KRS mean? How do citizens read this? Court demolition committee. I was hoping that this would be the opportunity to rationally convince you of any changes, at least the most obvious ones that our Legislative Office was talking about. No. It's the only piece of work, the only benefit. This is that we kept Minister Piebiak here for eight hours and for eight hours he did not have time to dismantle Polish justice and free courts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u348	Mr. Senator... [[And...]] Mr. Senator, your speaking time is over. Thank you very much. [[That's too bad. Interesting...]] [[I think it's actually quite lucky. At such a good time, Mr. Marshal...]] That's a good time. It's over... [[...in correction mode.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] What? [[But he didn't say his name.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] But, Senator, let's hear the correction. I'll listen. A brief performance. You're welcome. [[Thank you.]] He's getting ready to perform... Oh, something's gone now. [[Senator Wach.]] ...Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome, Senator. In corrigendum mode.]] Senator Pociej said that we made it impossible for Mr. Spokesman to ask questions... [[Voice from the room: Possibility to speak...]] ...that we took away the opportunity to speak... [[Well, that's a very good point, very accurate. Yes.]] ...and answer your questions to Mr Bodnar. Well, I'd like to correct... [[Very good, Mr. Senator.]] ...this false information, because a request has been made to proceed immediately to the discussion. The motion has not been voted out. Marshal Bielan's handler asked if there was anyone who wanted to ask a question... [[There was no one.]] There was no one... [[There was no one.]] ...and so we've moved on to the discussion. [[It's called democracy.]] [[But no one wanted to ask a question.]] So I wanted to explain... [[Democracy à la PiS.]] [[Well, he didn't want to.]] ...in protocol... [[Well, he didn't want to.]] ...and it was recorded in the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u350	Thank you very much, it's in the protocol. Yeah, that's a very good point, 'cause it explains everything here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Are you happy with yourself now, Senator?]] [[You should've been sitting...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please do not comment and do not express your opinions in this way, there are other possible forms. Please don't disturb me. Senator Wach is speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm actually here today with regret, without any satisfaction. I am also afraid that in this speech, after many previous ones, there may be some repetitions, but I believe that the situation is critical and needs to be done. What is happening as a result of the changes in judicial law, and in particular the law we are discussing today, can be called a hybrid coup. I say this with conviction and actually quoting Bogdan Zdrojewski, who used this term in one of the interviews. Bogdan Zdrojewski is now a European Parliamentary, previously a Minister of Culture and is known in our House, some well known. The hybrid coup is a very customs and synthetic term that well defines the current situation. In all of this, the changes concerning the Supreme Court play an important role and are a sure crowning of a process that has been more or less successful, but so far effective. The Supreme Court has a Disciplinar Chamber, which is a good tool for intimidating and generally disciplinary judges. In addition, it notes and approves the outcome of the election, which may prove necessary for the time being polls on the governing party do not indicate this, but this element, this tool may be needed in the future. It is closely linked to the Court of State. And the use of the Court of State and the first President as President of that Court may also be an important element in the possible future settlement of this procedure if this were to happen. Equally scandalous and pathetic is the method, so to speak, to introduce this legislation. I would call it an iterative process, which is the method of subsequent approximations, which is actually supposed to meet government assumptions. The fact that this is a method of subsequent approximations And this is the fifth approach this time. This is the result of the errors and mess of the legislator and the resistance of society and judges, for which we thank them. There's been a thank-you on this case today. In addition, it is a process, in my opinion, a lie, because it formally takes place behind the screen of the parliamentary initiative. Actually, the cornerstone of this fall was the changes concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is bypassing the Constitutional Tribunal, assuming anything from the government gets there will be confirmed. It has lost this fundamental power, namely the arbitration panel on legislation. And that's what's causing the fall, which includes the fall. That's my opinion. It causes boycott and such strong resistance from the courts. How will this result? That's exactly what no one knows right now, but the country's demise is certain. She is quite sure, but it can also be so bad that actually the change will take place only at a time of severe economic crisis, which will undoubtedly come, although it is probably not yet very close. All of this would result from such relatively small, it would seem, changes in the judicial system. We are spoiling, or actually you are spoiling the state first in good faith, and then more and more out of necessity, out of fear of a system that was perhaps not very good, but led to progress and gave us a chance. It's too bad it's happening. I considered it my duty to make that clear today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Indeed, the situation is quite difficult, but the reasons for this difficulty are slightly different from that of my esteemed previous speaker. This bill... I listened attentively to the statements of the Minister and these statements actually convinced me that this law, despite certain doubts, is technical in nature and is a reaction to the surprising obstruction of the judge's environment, which tries to block the process launched by the previously introduced laws, laws that raised doubts. on their constitutionality, on their mode of introduction. This correction mode, fast pace, well, it's probably not satisfying, but that's the way it is. There have been many words here about attachment to the rule of law, standing by values and the fact that the rule of law system is at risk in Poland. I kind of share that opinion. But I'm asking you a question... Because there has already been so much about our possible contribution to washing up the rule of law, there is no time to respond to that, but I am asking you, colleagues, opposition colleagues, state institutions, such as the Ombudsman, the Supreme Court, the question of how you understand the rule of law, without recognising the legally existing institutions in Poland. [[Which ones?]] [[Which ones?]] The Constitutional Tribunal. [[Yes, the Constitutional Court.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Constitutional Tribunal. [[Yeah, you're laughing.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is this the rule of law? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is this the rule of law, if you don't recognize it, you just don't recognize the Constitutional Court? [[That's embarrassing.]] Well, he's not here. It's true, isn't it? He's not here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I understand and share Professor Wach's view that the appointment of the Constitutional Tribunal was very controversial. Unfortunately, the constitutional gap or the legal gap made it impossible to resolve this dispute when the Constitutional Tribunal was appointed, in my opinion, to resolve it at the legal level. There was no institution that could settle this dispute with competence. Mr President took responsibility, to some extent she was taken over by Prime Minister Szydło. It cannot be ruled out that perhaps when power changes, they will be held accountable to the Court of State. [[I'm sure.]] [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] We cannot rule that out, but then we operate within the Polish rule of law system. For now, there is no application to the Court of State, so far there is a Constitutional Tribunal and a statement by... If that's what people say on the street, it's still getting away with. But if high authorities and serious institutions in Poland find that there is no Court... [[There isn't.]] ...if they believe that a bill is unconstitutional and does not refer it to the Constitutional Tribunal, they only rule on the unconstitutionality of the law on the street or stand above the law, that is, a fundamental, drastic and radical violation of the rule of law. At least that's how I understand it. In fact, the situation is dangerous... [[The Nazi law had to be obeyed, too.]] ...the situation is dangerous because we're going through... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Did someone bother you?]] ...as a society in anarchy. The threat that the judgments of the Polish courts will be challenged at European level can unfortunately become realistic. Rejection of the legality of institutions, not just the Constitutional Court... It is clear from the prominence that Parliament is no longer in Parliament, either, that a parallel parliament has to be created. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Word is, we have to establish a confederation. Ladies and gentlemen, history... There was a reference to history here, history is the teacher of life. What do we think of the confederation? What are we going for? What does the Confederacy end with? What ends in seeking justice in other courts, in Berlin, maybe in Moscow? I know the situation is different because we're in the Union. But after all, the speech of your first president in Berlin was a shocking thing, in the context of history. [[Voice from the room: It's in the Union.]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, no one bothered you...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm running out of time, so I'm ending up calling for us to come back... [[Yes, we're running out of time, Mr. Senator.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, yet... [[Here you go, conclusion.]] Yeah, the conclusion. I conclude by calling for us to return to respect for the rule of law... [[Voice from the room: Good idea.]] ...to start appealing to Polish institutions, and if we run out of this procedure... Mr. Counselor, you're a lawyer, there's almost nothing like exhaustion of the procedure. If you consider any law unconstitutional, refer it to the Constitutional Court. [[We're pulling out...]] If he decides otherwise than you think... [[But, Senator...]] ...then maybe it's worth appealing to the Luxembourg tribunal. [[How are you guys acting...]] But at least the Polish procedure must be exhausted, not on the street to preach... [[Mr. Senator, time's up. Excuse me.]] ...that the Court doesn't exist. [[Mr. Senator, please proceed...]] One last sentence... [[But that's the last one.]] It's the last one. The point is, it doesn't look like the rule of law, it's the opposition that's responsible for the problem, even though you're going in some weird way. The government, the President, the parliamentary majority is more responsible for the rule of law in the country. We should do everything possible to get off this path... [[...to get off the stage.]] [[Mr. Senator, time. I have to...]] ...and don't cross the Rubicon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u354	I have to watch my time. Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka and Senator Duda made their speeches in the minutes. I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Zientarski, Senator Borusewicz, Senator Rybicki, Senator Kleina, Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Senator Florek, Senator Sługock, Senator Grodzki, Senator Klich and Senator Štark. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... and I will say in a moment what time, because I do not know which time we will announce a break, but today after the break. Is the government representative... [[No, tomorrow, tomorrow.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is the representative... Today it will be, today it will be. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Traditionally.]] You're the one who wanted to... [[Tonight.]] [[We'll survive.]] You dictated the terms, the discussion continued. If you don't know how much, I'll tell you. 10, 11, 12 hours, and since you didn't want to discuss it yourself... [[The discussion lasted an hour and a half.]] But who led to the fact that there was no discussion? You guys, ladies and gentlemen. [[Martynowski.]] The state, because you asked questions, and you didn't want to discuss them. Minister, do you wish to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, but in a few words, I would like to refer to what happened here after my speech, especially to the speech of your spokesperson. With all due respect to the achievements of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Office, it does not seem to be the role of the Ombudsman to challenge the procedure adopted by Parliament. [[Why?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The project is parliamentary, it has been carried out in the proper manner, we are here, and I don't think we should be dealing with gossip, speculation, this sort of thing, especially when we are talking about the constitutional body, about the Ombudsman. I confirm, Mr. Spokesman, that we saw each other in Suwałki, I was then in the Iustitia, I thought we were fighting for the same thing at the time. Now I'm convinced that it's different, though, that I, all the while sticking to the ideals of an independent judiciary, the independence of judges... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...I want these ideals to be realized in Poland. [[And this bill...]] I wish things would change, because there's a lot of things that have to change for this to happen. I have the impression that Mr. Spokesman... [[Shh... let's not interrupt. No one...]] ...he would want things to be the way they were, and it's really the fundamental difference between us. But history will judge us, judge us who was right, who was wrong. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's the present that's gonna judge.]] [[Tomorrow morning.]] I'm pretty sure those changes that... [[Mr. Senator, please don't comment.]] ...a party to attend... [[Nobody commented on your statement, you're being very rude.]] [[Mrs. Sagatowska...]] I'm afraid... [[Mr. Senator Rulewski, I draw your attention to keeping your peace because you're acting outrageous.]] I am convinced that these changes, which the High House is trying to defend today, will defend itself and in a few years' time an independent observer of reality will admit that what happened today in this House was something good for the Polish justice system, for the Polish judicial community, for Polish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u356	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote will be held after the adjournment is announced. Announcement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u357	The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the consideration of amendments tabled to the Act amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws will take place today 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in the Senate plenary room.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u358	I'm calling a break to 1.10, which is 50 minutes. [[Adjournment from 00 minutes 21 to 01 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 932 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u359	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] The High Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u360	Thank you very much. Are the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: So, what, maybe?]] [[Voice from the room: That's what they say.]] I ask you to remain calm. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? [[Voice from the room: Yes, back...]] I'll read... Because maybe you don't know who might be speaking. Senators: Piotr Zientarski, Kazimierz Kleina, Sławomir Rybicki, Leszek Czarnobaj, Bogdan Borusewicz, Jerzy Wcisła, Piotr Florek, Tomasz Grodzki, Waldemar Sługocki, Bogdan Klich, Grażyna Stark. In addition, the committee's rapporteurs were Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Alexander Pociej The minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and Senator Jan Rulewski The minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. You're welcome. Who wants to speak? Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] There's no way to start a different way to hear people chanting behind a wall... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...free courts, free Poland... If you are so convinced that this law is in line with the interests of Poland, then I am surprised that once again the only person who spoke for this law was Senator Bobko, who... Mr. Senator, I bow my head even though we differ and in many cases we have different opinions, but I bow to this attempt to talk to the opposition and listen to what this opposition has to say from time to time wise. It is that sin, even a small one, then causes an avalanche. And today, unfortunately, we are at such a climax when this avalanche has raised and swept away everything here we are talking about the justice system. What's going to happen in their path? That's why a number of mistakes were made three years ago, two years ago, today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...tonight... Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will not bully you, but you may have taken the floor, come out here and say something meaningful that could be used in this debate. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] So now... [[Please refrain from commenting.]] ...don't get along... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I understand that the marshal wanted me not to be interrupted, just as the marshal wanted you not to be interrupted by Senator Bobka. [[Yeah, just to be serious, calm and quiet.]] [[A voice from the hall: Tell me when this sin arose.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Unfortunately, we are ending this legislative process... Although the opinions are divided here, because there are several specialists who say that you will have to come here again and correct this bill, because it still failed to do to the end of what this law was all about. As usual, the bill was written on the knee, too quickly and a few mistakes were made, resulting in the impossibility of dealing with what the law was really trying to settle, that is, ordinary personal matters. It won't be possible to finish them again. I was talking about it. I'm afraid it's an empty room. I am very surprised that so many people with as much political and political experience and life as most countries, and I have spoken to many of you, can be pushed into a conflict course with the European Union and with the whole system of European justice. It is incomprehensible to me that you are squandering your political capital in such a reckless way, which could be used completely differently. We talked about how much we talk about the justice system. There wasn't a term in which so many fights and time would be devoted to this particular subject. We asked today. I would like to raise this question, although there is no longer a minister, which has been able to push, change in the justice system, which would improve the functioning of this justice system. I have talked many times about the reform of Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, who was at least supposed to really improve the functioning of the criminal procedure. I have not been answered by any of the ministers who have been coming here for three years and who have not left dry hair on the reform of Minister Gowin. None of them answered me why they're not doing it right now. Unfortunately, the changes made are purely personal. It's just staff change. They do not correspond in any way to the assumption that representatives of the Ministry and those who submit these draft laws speak of each time. Under no circumstances does this change the fate of a gray citizen who is facing a state machine and who must have the tools to get justice quickly and efficiently. What's more, these changes are going in the opposite direction. After these changes, the citizen will have less rights in relation to the entire state machine than before the changes that you have proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u362	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] More gentlemen? Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You have the right. You're welcome. In what mode do you want to report? [[Voice from the room: Formal motion to report.]] [[Voice from the room: But you can no longer...]] Mr. Senator, I know what mode you're in. [[I volunteer in a relationship...]] I'm sorry. About what? [[Since you've read me as an applicant and I have the right to...]] I read it, I read it. [[Therefore, I have the right to perform...]] I read it. Everybody's got... Mr. Marshal, please and I recommend that you read the Rules of Procedure for the next sitting or even tonight so that you can finally get to know the Rules of Procedure and do not interfere with the proceedings. The senator may submit a formal application at any time. It cannot be submitted only when we have begun the vote. We haven't started the vote, and the senator has the right. You're welcome, Senator, to take advantage of this law. And then the senator... In what mode? [[About your...]] [[Let's not vote.]] [[No mode.]] Sir... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u363	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am making a formal motion to move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u364	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wait, wait...]] [[Voice from the room: Why do we need the rules?]] At any moment... Ladies and gentlemen, there are regulations. Because you don't know the rules... There you go, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u365	Mr. Marshal, you have called us, the rapporteurs, and I am the rapporteur... [[I didn't call, no, no.]] [[Voice from the room: You called...]] [[There's always a possibility...]] You called on the rapporteurs to speak, and then you dropped it and accepted Senator Martynowski's motion. [[No, Mr. Senator...]] This is abuse.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u366	There's no abuse. There are regulations that allow you to file a formal application... Excuse me? [[Voice from the Chamber: In Art. 48 does not have such a transition to vote. There could be a change in the way you drive...]] Well, here it is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, to which point art. 48 are you filing a formal application? [[Voice from the room: Yeah, right!]] Mr. Senator, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u367	Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 48... [[A little serious, because you're making too much fuss in this House.]] ...pt. Point 2 (9) of the amendment of the method... [[You're welcome, Senator.]] ...to hold a meeting, debate and vote, and at the same time point 7 of the vote without discussion. [[But this isn't a discussion.]] [[But this isn't a discussion.]] [[There's no more discussion here.]] I say point 9 and point 7. You can choose. [[Learn the rules, Senator, really.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The discussion is closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u368	Dismissed until 1:30 p.m. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Well...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I need to interpret this. [[Adjournment from 01 minutes 24 to 01 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, prior to the recess, you submitted a formal motion by Senator Marek Martynowski, referring to the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 item 9: Change in the way in which the deliberations are held and move on to a vote. I consider this request to be in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[I'm sorry, but...]] You're filing a counterclaim?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u369	No. On behalf of the Civic Platform, I would like to say that if this proposal were voted out, it would be a violation of the article. 52... [[Mr. Senator, you will not intervene...]] ...pt. 3rd Rules of Procedure... [[No, no, Mr. Senator...]] ...Senate rule... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal!]] ...and you, Mr. Marshal, have no infallibility of the Pope in our interpretation of our rules. He's clearly saying... [[Mr. Senator, and that's why I did...]] ...that article I'm pleading for... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...he clearly... Let me finish. [[First of all, don't insult me. Don't insult me, okay?]] Let me finish. This article says...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u370	I'm taking your vote. I'm sorry. [[...clearly, after the discussion is over...]] There's a formal conclusion. Is there any objection? [[And it always has been.]] You're filing a counterclaim? [[No, I'm calling...]] No. Well, then I'll take the floor. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[I have a motion for the marshal to comply with the rules of procedure.]] Mr. Marshal, are you a marshal... I've taken your voice away, and please don't tell me, because I've taken your voice away. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Senator Klich should remain silent. [[Talking in the O.R.]] All of them... I beg you to remove all the words you're saying right now from the transcript. You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u371	I think I lost my voice listening to your marshal. [[There you go...]] I lost my voice, really. [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]] [[Voice from the room: And the opposite?]] [[Is the motion against it or isn't it?]] Of course it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u372	There it is. Good. In that case, we shall vote on the formal proposal. I introduced... [[Voice from the room: What conclusion?]] I made a formal motion... [[The Lord closes our mouths.]] Please don't disturb me. Mr. Senator, I'm giving you a heads-up and I'm asking you not to interfere with the proceedings. [[The Lord closes our mouths.]] This is the first time I've paid your attention not to bother you. We are now moving on to the vote. Who is in favour of Senator Martynowski's request to change the way in which the debate is conducted and to move on to the vote? Please, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 92 senators voted, 60 for, 31 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] We therefore proceed to the vote... [[Formal conclusion...]] We'll proceed to the vote... [[The conclusion...]] I said... There are no formal applications at the moment. [[Talking in the O.R.]] First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held... [[The Lord closes our mouths.]] I'm calling you into order. [[Why don't you bring it up?]] The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 30 for, 62 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 91 senators voted, 60 for, 30 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 8]] [[Applause]] [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club chant: Free courts! Free courts!]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club chant: Wol-na Polska! Free courts!]] I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow... [[Voice from the room: No, today.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: To this day.]] I'm declaring a recess until 10:00 a.m. today... Are there communications? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] And an announcement, please. We've got an announcement to make. One message, right? You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-24-senat-64-1.u373	Joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the first reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate will be held... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] [[Well, it's on, but you're not listening. Well, well... read it and that's it.]] The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the first reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure will be held on 25 July at 8.30 p.m. in room 217 in building B. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 1 minute 40]]
