ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u1	Good morning. I'm extending the recess until 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 05 to 13 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, April 13th is the Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Katyn Crime. The findings so far show that among the victims of this genocide there were at least two senators of the Second Republic, Tadeusz Petrażycki and Jan Ślaska, who participated in the September campaign and were then captured by the Soviets. Senators Maciej Bundzylak, Innocenty Głowacki, Apolinary Garlicki, Emil Horodyński, Helena Lewczanowska, Mikołaj Masłow and Tadeusz Moszyński were shot in the spring of 1940. The exact fate of many senators who found themselves in the Polish lands occupied by the Soviet army remains unknown to this day. Please rise and commemorate with a minute of silence the memory of all victims murdered by the NKVD under the decisions of the Supreme Authorities of the Soviet Union. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Law on the Organisation and Procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, Senate Printing No. 782 and considering this item as point 14 of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on the Supreme Court, printing No. 783 If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There you go. [[On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.]] I gave the floor to Marshal Borusewicz at the moment... [[I'm calling...]] ...in the second place, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u2	I object to the introduction of the three laws that you mentioned to the marshal in 14th, 15th and 16th paragraphs. The procedure for the adoption of these laws is similar to that of previous laws concerning the Supreme Court, the Court and the General Courts, the National Courts of Justice, the National Courts of Justice, the National Courts of Justice, the National Courts of Justice, and the National Courts of Justice. I see no reason for these laws to be dealt with in such a way. The Commission met, although committees should not meet during the Senate meeting. At the committee meeting, the vote was passed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which states that in an emergency situation... But I do not see any emergency situation as regards these laws or as regards the situation in Poland. We are not at war or in a state of emergency, and this mode has no justification. I therefore object to these three laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u3	About three? Good. And Senator Augustine... [[I'm quitting.]] You're resigning. I just want to say, Mr. Marshal, that the procedure for convening a committee meeting is in accordance with the rules of procedure, because their sitting was not convened during the plenary session, we had a break, it was convened during the recess, as is usually the case. Then I'll put my proposal to the vote. I propose supplementing the agenda with these 3 items, there is a vote of opposition. Who's in favour of my offer? Who's against my offer? Please report the results. 66 senators voted, 43 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I would like to state that the agenda has been completed by 3 previously mentioned items. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that after preparing the report of the relevant Senate committees, the agenda may be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 782, and the report of the Commission In print No 782 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, together with the request of minorities, the report in print No 782 A, on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 12 April 2018 amending the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 12 April. The committees discussed this law at the sitting today and the committees ask the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution, namely the one from print No 782 A. It is also reported by Senator Zientarski, a minority motion. This law, which we received from the Sejm, which is a parliamentary submission, is intended to publish 3 decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. Decision of 9 March 2016, decision of 11 August 2016 and decision of 7 November 2016 as well. The purpose of this law, as the applicant justifies, is to ensure that the pressure that opposition representatives have been exerting for a long time to promote to announce... We call it a decision and the law speaks of a decision, but at the committee's meeting it was very strongly drawn attention to this name and it was stated that this is a ruling of the Court, i.e. a judgment or a decision, and in no case is a decision. Applicants, both at the Seym stage as well as today during the discussion... We have stressed very strongly that it is difficult to speak about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in a situation where what has been declared was called a judgment... what has been declared by the Constitutional Tribunal has been called a judgment, but it is a judgment affected by a serious legal defect. It is affected by a serious legal defect, because the judgment, i.e. the decision of 9 March, is incompatible with the Act of 25 June 2015 and with this remedy, with the fact that, so to speak, the healing Act of 22 December 2015. This judgment of March 9th is not based on this law. The act of June 25 said that the composition to be adjudicated was 13 judges. Here the formation of the court was 12 judges. Of course, there were some other comments. However, aside from specifying these provisions... the entire bill has been assessed negatively. As regards the judgment, i.e., according to the statutory nomenclature, the decision of 11 August 2016 is incompatible with the Law of 22 July 2016. It would therefore be difficult to talk about the decisions of the Constitutional Court when those decisions were taken with a legal defect. In addition, it should also be taken into account that these 3 decisions... 2 decisions concern legal standards, they concern laws, they concern laws that no longer exist in the legal order, because they have simply been abolished The provisions of 25 June 2015 were repealed by the Law of 22 July 2016. The contested provisions of the Act of 22 July 2016 were eliminated by the Act on which we are currently working, i.e. the Act introducing transitional provisions... A very long discussion took place at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and Legislative Rights. The senators asked questions to Mr Wójcik, present at the committee meeting, who, despite the fact that the initiative is not a parliamentary initiative, a parliamentary initiative, but... I mean, it's a parliamentary initiative, but not a government initiative, not a minister of justice. However, Minister Wójcik was present at the committee meeting and, of course, answered the questions. So that there was a very long discussion. As I said at the beginning, the committees request the adoption of the attached draft resolution, i.e. the adoption of the Law from Senate Printing No. 782 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minority of the committee, I request that this bill be rejected. I'm going to start with the obvious, because in the case of this presentation, we're dealing with the obvious, as the classic says. I think everyone should be able to reach out to what basis we have, the canons of constitutional law. First of all, I would like to remind you that the existing Constitution of the Republic of Poland, adopted by the sovereign and adopted in the constitutional referendum, in art. 8 says, "The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland." I repeat: it is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Constitution shall apply directly unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution. Unless otherwise provided, it shall be applied directly. From the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 saying that the Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland, is bound by the provision of Article. 87 constitutions talking about sources of law, about the system of sources of law. These are basic questions for students in constitutional law. The system of sources of law presented as a pyramid: at the top of the pyramid there is a constitution, and only later there are laws, ratified intergovernmental agreements and regulations. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that if we storm or, as some say, set fire to the legal system... I've heard these comparisons that the system has been set on fire by the current power and that the one who set it on fire now wants to put it out, but it's starting to burn itself. Well, yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation. This also applies to this law. If Art. 190 constitutions... This was mentioned today at the committee meeting. He asked about it, among other things. Mr. Senator Augustine. In general, I would like to say that the committee was sitting in such a strange way. There were no representatives of the applicants, Members, when the bill was examined. There were questions for the Deputy Minister, and the Deputy Minister said that we didn't put it forward, so he washed his hands. And there were actually no specific answers to questions or evasive answers. There were no substantive answers. There was just a message: we didn't do it, these aren't questions for us. So we're asking who? We wanted to talk about a minority of committees, and I am referring to this proposal to postpone the sitting so that it is possible to prepare for all of this, because it is a matter of political issues. 13 hours after the law was passed by the Sejm, we are to vote as a serious Chamber. Right? And these are systemic issues, which are also in the circle of interest abroad. At first, we were laughing at her, and now it's written in the explanatory memorandum. We want to satisfy this abroad. Good. But the point is to take a step towards implementing the recommendations. After all, we have clear recommendations. It is clear from the opinion of the Constitutionalists and the first President of the Supreme Court that both this submission and the other two absolutely do not meet these recommendations. They ignore them completely and they're totally apparent. There's something else we're dealing with here. Ladies and gentlemen, as a rule, the Constitution is a framework and not a casuistic one. That is the essence of the constitution. However, as far as the publication of the judgment is concerned, the Constitution does not leave the slightest doubt in this matter. There is no need for a system interpretation or any other interpretation. Art. 190 clearly says that, lips. 1: The judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final, and here is the dot. The Constitutional Tribunal's ruling on the matters referred to in Article 1 shall be based on the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal. 188 shall be immediately notified in the official body in which the normative act was declared. Immediately announced, unconditionally, ladies and gentlemen. And that comes from the constitution. Inconclusively. It is not possible here that the ordinary law, having regard to the system of sources of law and the principle of primacy of the Constitution, introduces by side some comments, opinions, new institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the courts or the Constitutional Court... Here he moves in, see the name of the decision. What is a decision, they can call themselves kids on the street. The court has ruled. Yes. But in what form? The form is judgment, resolution, order. Well, how do you put in an act a common concept that doesn't exist in a legal language when there were convictions... That's not good enough. In order to confirm that there have been judgments, it is that they have been declared separate from those judgments, and only from the judgment, a separate sentence is declared. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? And today, without wanting to publish, or... Because this publication is an introduction to the system, and that has consequences. And that's what Law and Justice are afraid of. Because we consistently claim that the Court has therefore been incapacitated, that three persons who are not judges have been introduced, so-called. The doubles, because they've been taken, they've already been filled. They haven't even started... it's not like their term of office has been established in the Seym resolutions. And let me remind you that every resolution was separate to every judge of the Court... 'Cause it would've turned out to be... Well, in fact, it must be, ladies and gentlemen, sooner or later, that the Court, and especially those judgments that are in the wrong hands... Besides, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we raise it every time, we examine the composition. If the squad... If there were doubles or successors to doubles, then, ladies and gentlemen, these judgments are by law invalid, because the squad is misplaced. And that involves very serious consequences. Not to mention the fact that the president was elected without a majority... without a proper resolution, because in the case of a resolution there must be a majority of the body. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, And this is where some kind of bill comes in? Well, they all say, "What do you mean? What is the basis for a resolution on publication if there is an obligation? Well, when we finally want to, should we... Not us, but how do you do? I'm addressing the Senators of Law and Justice and they admit their mistake, but they want to publish, unconditionally, in accordance with the Constitution, and not again break the Constitution and still make an impression... Well, because it's already naive to say yes, we're going to publish, but it's actually not going to have any effect. Come on, guys, you gotta be kidding me! This is ridiculous! This is a mockery of the law and lawyers. I understand that face... And I've said that a few times before. I'm far from it, ladies and gentlemen, from ad personam's arguments you've already met me, I'm here for the fourth term. But I can't help but say that Mr. Piotrowicz is the face of this. And it's not that he was in martial law... [[You're not even up to his heels.]] Who? [[You.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But I ask you to stop...]] I don't want to talk about myself. [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] Perhaps... [[Mr. Senator...]] Excellent lawyer. Excellent lawyer. [[Mr. Senator, but don't discuss it, please don't discuss it.]] [[But there was a remark that the senator wasn't growing up.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Well, how can you do that?]] [[Okay, but let's not comment. Please refrain from commenting.]] No, that's... [[The Tribune is open to everyone.]] I'm not gonna answer that fight, Mr. Marshal... [[It's too bad to say...]] ...even though you insulted me, you insulted me. [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to stop your emotions and not tell your courts. You're welcome.]] [[Who started with names?]] [[Please continue, Senator Minority Rapporteur.]] Well, unfortunately, the face of these changes is D.D.A. Peterovich, who... That's not the point. And I stress that, I already mentioned it today. That he was in a state of war as a prosecutor, because many prosecutors were very reliable, and so were the judges. And it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that those judges we often talk about here, that they don't give guarantees or guarantees of law enforcement, because they were judges in martial law. This is the judge, ladies and gentlemen. They did not allow the man whom Mr.Peterowicz accused to be convicted. These were the bad judges of martial law. This gentleman accused him, wrote an indictment, filed this indictment, and that disgraces him. I'm not talking about the fact that he was a party training manager, an ideologist. And he's the face of these changes, ladies and gentlemen. It's not just me, it's the lawyers. It just hurts. There's no substantive discussion. Today we hear that on the question... [[Mr. Senator, but I'd like to move on to ad rem, to the bill, not to...]] But I don't have a limited... [[...descriptions of people who are working on the bill, because it's...]] All right, I'm done. [[...is inappropriate, unnecessary...]] I'm done. [[That wasn't necessary.]] 'Cause if you... [[Mr. Senator, all right, but I'm asking you to...]] ...suits this way... [[Okay, I'm...]] ...and randomly treats the constitution, which means we're not taken seriously. Well, as today, the question relating to the Constitutional Tribunal was that the answer was that you could shape the system. Of course you can shape the system, no one questions the power of the Sejm to amend the Constitutional Court Act. The only condition is that the constitutional principles of judicial independence are respected. That's our charge. We do not accuse that something is changing here, because the Sejm, Parliament, has the right to change it, it is obvious. And we are presented with this recipe, aside from all of this, saying something completely different. Well, we demand a serious debate, we demand it not only in the Senate, but also in the Seym. What does it turn out to be? That you can't even ask questions. This is important to us too, Mr. Marshal, because we are listening to this, we are already preparing, because we know it will come to us. We don't have much time, we get the opinions of the Legislative Bureau at the committee meeting because they're not here before, and we still owe it to the legislators' night work. We cannot prepare ourselves, therefore we are interested in what arguments will be made in the Sejm, because they get the materials there earlier. And that limits our ability. I'm not talking about skipping out. But not in the case of this law, the third reading. There's no third reading, there's another law, but I'll talk about it later, not at this point. So that time is also... It has been 13 hours since the adoption, and we already have to speak, and we are a serious House and we take matters seriously. And unfortunately, We refer here, as I said, to a clear constitutional basis, and we believe that this kind of introduction... It's kind of hard to call a bubble. If this, suppose, were to repeat the constitutional provisions without discussion, you could say, well, the head does not hurt from the tabernacle. But here we're dealing with manipulation. We're establishing that we have a ruling, so not a judgment, a ruling that is a judgment. We allow ourselves, as a legislator, to evaluate the judgments of the Constitutional Court, to which we have no competence, because the Constitutional Tribunal is just to show our mistakes, I am talking about Parliament's mistakes. That is what the Constitutional Tribunal is for, not the other way around. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake at all. The Parliament, which is to be reviewed by the Court, reviews the Court. It's putting the rules upside down. Well, it's completely incomprehensible to me, yes, it's completely incomprehensible. Therefore, we strongly, unambiguously believe that there can be no amendments here, that is completely unnecessary. After all, the constitution clearly and unambiguously states Okay, I'll remind you. Not only the judges, but also the Members and Senators promised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u7	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're Marshal Borusewicz first, aren't you? You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u8	To the Senator of the majority, to Senator Gogach. Mr Senator, this bill is the result of the expectations of the PiS towards the European Commission. Is this solution that you believe has exhausted the conflict with the European Commission or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u10	Senator, the first question concerns the opinion of our Legislative Bureau. Would you like to tell the High House because this is not in your report, what was your opinion? [[It's smashing.]] I would ask you to introduce her, because not all the senators were in committee. Second thing. Since the Minister has not given such an answer, I hope you will do so as a lawyer. Tell us what rules and what authority they give the right to recognise the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal as being taken in accordance with either the procedure or the rules. Please give me a specific indication of what these bodies are and what rules they are.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There were different concepts in your speech. In your knowledge, could you explain the differences between the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u13	Thank you. Please, I'll give you the floor, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u14	As for the question of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, what regulations give us the right to determine... to assess, I understand, judgments... [[No, to be determined, to be determined.]] ...to find out... [[It's an assessment that any of us can have.]] ...the Constitutional Court's orders, I understand, yes? [[Yes. Which are final.]] Senator, it is so accepted in a democratic state that public authorities operate in accordance with the Constitution, are based on legal bases and operate within the limits of the law. Anyway, that's what we're talking about in the article. 7 constitutions. Therefore, all institutions that operate in Poland, including those which issue judgments, should be based on legal provisions. And right now... [[Please indicate these provisions.]] ...if we are talking about judgments, judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, the state so calls these 3 decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, you often emphasize that the Court was directly guided... that is to say, it applied the constitution directly. But please note that all the judgments of the Constitutional Court that we are dealing with You can just check this out, recall the ordinary laws, invoke the Constitutional Court Act, whether it's the Act of 25 June, whether it's the Law of 22 July, whether it's the Act, as it is now, of 13 December. And please note that this is no longer just about all the judgments in which, as far as the basis is concerned, the ordinary laws are mentioned. But please check these judgments, the decisions we are discussing today: March 9th, August 11th and November 7th... There is no information that simply a judgment is given on the basis of a constitution. No. Even in that judgment of 9 March, the Law of 25 June 2005 is cited. I don't know if it's a bill, along with this law that's updating it on December 22nd or just the law itself. However, in every judgment, also in those three judgments, the ordinary law is cited. And now tell me why, if it's like this. for certain provisions, the Constitutional Tribunal is based on the ordinary law and, for example, as regards on the composition of the Judges, on the full composition of the Judges in the case of decisions at the Constitutional Court, this provision of the Act of 25 June on full composition, which is 13 Judges, is given, is given a judgment or a decision, as is the case. were the applicants presented in respect of the number of 12 judges? The same is true of the judgment of 11 August concerning the Law of 22 July. Well, in this bill, there's a lot that the Court has questioned... The order in which applications were submitted for consideration, etc., etc. were also challenged. So, well, the question you asked... I believe that all of this must be understood in such a way that, in accordance with Article. 7 constitutions all public authorities rely on the constitution. And this is about art. 7, I'm sure. And then no one's fired. But it's an art. 197... in the context of previous discussions on the Constitutional Tribunal, we have often referred to an article. 197. And the same article. 197 states that the internal organisation of the Court is governed by the ordinary law. And the ordinary bill was just the way it was. So that's all I can say. As for the question of Senator Czarnobaj... [[Legal Bureau's opinion.]] Oh, and the office's opinion. There was no discussion of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau at the meeting of the Joint Committee. This opinion, of course, came in this morning and it was presented to all the senators. As rapporteur for the committee, I can say that we have of course read it, but it was not discussed at the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees. Senator Czarnobaj asked what is the difference between judgment, judgment and judgment. Mr. Senator, this is Senator Zientarski here earlier as rapporteur for minorities, on the basis of his view, he spoke of this. As regards the Court's rulings, we have judgments and orders within the framework of the judgments. He's still talking about orders, but it's mostly about judgments and resolutions. As for the resolution in the context of this law we are discussing, these are judgments with a legal defect, in short. These judgments simply could not be taken for the reasons I said earlier, because they have a serious legal defect. And as far as I'm concerned... [[And who decides if it's a legal defect?]] [[Mr. Senator, you'll be able to ask a question in a moment.]] [[By the way...]] [[There isn't any, by the way. We'll just have to wait for the Senator rapporteur to finish answering. Do you want me to sign up for the senator? Good.]] Oh, that's where I got... Good. And as far as I'm concerned... Senator... excuse me, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... Speaking of which, is that a justification that... Well, ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about these solutions, since you are asking for specific definitions, first of all we need to take into account what we find in the justification for submitting this bill, which we are discussing. It was also about silenced discussions about whether there is a rule of law in Poland or whether there is no rule of law or art. 7 should be performed in relation to Poland or should not. There has been a recent visit from the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. It all consists of the fact that this is a signal that we want to send through this law, that we have a good will to put an end to the discussion about the Court and that we can simply proceed calmly with regard to the judicial activity of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is simply this direction of action. Here I can quote: The rationale for this is to stabilise the legal system and end the conflict around the TK. However, it seems to you that in such situations we should show a lot of goodwill, because the purpose of the bill is precisely that the conflict or discussions around the Constitutional Tribunal end not only quiet but also end. And, like I said, this is the direction of action. Mr. Marshal asked if it was simply exhausting the justification. I think this is certainly a very important reason why we should adopt this bill. Yes, Mrs. Marshal, because I don't know what... [[Stick to what happened at the committee meeting.]] I can already answer the next... Unless I didn't answer someone.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u15	Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question to Senator Ziientarski, who put forward a minority proposal here. The question is... Of course, we have an idea. - Very clearly expressed by your senator. As regards when and who should sign the Court's rulings. It should have happened a long time ago, a few months ago, but it didn't happen. Those are the facts. Do you consider that, in this situation, the continuation of the situation in which they will not be published is more favourable, or is it more favourable that, as a result of this law, they will be published? And what risks are possibly linked to both situations, i.e. not publishing further or publishing, but as if it were not in line with what you presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Do you have a question for which senator? [[Thank you very much. My predecessors had a similar question, so I'm gonna give up not to repeat myself. Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Good. Senator Fedorovich has a question for the minority senator or... [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Mr. Gogach.]] Good. I will now ask the senator of the minority rapporteur to answer Senator Szymanski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u18	Senator Szymanski's question. In my opinion, the effects of the normal publication of such a publication in accordance with the Constitution It will be much smaller than continuing in such lawlessness. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what are we in danger of? Well, even now, the judgments that come with the so-called understudys, that is to say, misplaced, are at our disposal, even in our committee, being questioned. And they'll be questioned by lawyers. I know that from representatives of the entire community. That's enough, they'll find the finals... Well, that's international and legal certainty. I'm not talking about our image anymore. I'm not talking about ignoring the recommendation. After all, no one in the Venice Commission or the European Commission came up with the idea that publication would be about... Well, it's not gonna be a conviction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is quite obvious. That's why the question is this kind of thing: what's better? Sit in the swamp longer or shorter? What will be the result? If anyone's sitting longer, the consequences are more serious. And now it's time for that, because this and it's going to be externally evaluated, and it's going to go away... Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer a political dispute, because this dispute... This is about legal practice, which will be constantly... Here's the problem. And the problems will only grow. So I have no doubt And that's not just my opinion, because that's generally the opinion of lawyers who also deal with European law. That it is late, of course, and there are certain costs, but given how much he did, or actually how much he didn't do, because you can see what the Court's work was like... Yeah, just like it used to be for a few months. Now all this time, just like in less than six months before... Therefore, these judgments fortunately are not yet much, and this can be undone. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're afraid it's something else, that it's about keeping this, so let's call it, the wrong majority. And we're still dealing with a suspension of three judges. And that's why the Court's settlement. The Court should act normally. I think that if the Court had acted, our credibility as a rule of law would have grown enormously, because then we would have had a real body that would have given an opinion, or rather would have ruled on the compatibility of the laws with... And without the Constitutional Court, without a normal Court as such a pin, as a fuse, there is no applicable legislation and there is no independence of the authorities, there is no independence of the judiciary. [[Mrs. Marshal, I didn't get the full answer. Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u19	Ask around. Please, but briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, we are in such a situation today that the ruling may be either will not be published for many months, or will be published in the manner provided for by the present law. That's what I'm talking about. Is it more beneficial, then, to remain in such a state that they are not published, or that they will be published shortly on the basis of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u21	Well, I think I did, Mr. Senator. This is about practically 3 sentences, these three specific judgments, and the law introduces such a situation that we publish something that the constitution commands, only that we do not call it judgments, but ourselves, as legislator, determine that these are decisions, because they have been issued with a legal defect. Well, it's quite... There is no such authority as this one constitutional body, is there? He could settle... And here the cases are settled, sentences are handed down. As I said, I believe that the effects and legal, and the image will be much smaller, already so per the balance, if now normally, simply, you will publish these judgments, without this law, without these comments, without those humps. Well, that's... It's hard to call lawmaking what we're dealing with here. [[Thank you, Senator...]] 'Cause I'm just gonna finish up here... What you presented to the senator is a new definition, i.e. that the decision is, as I found out here, a judgment with a legal defect. Well, who put in a vocabulary like that, Mr. Chairman? I haven't heard anything like that from any constitutionalist's mouth. This decision is, as I say, either a sentence or a resolution. Well, in the common language, it's just a judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u22	Good. Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have an appointment with President Gogach... And I'm glad you're a lawyer, because I'm not. And we have similar functions, each in our committee. So, as I understand it, it is easier for you within a few hours to prepare yourself for a committee meeting on such a serious project. I'd like you to comment on... But it's mostly about citizens, because not everyone understands this complicated legal language. I'm gonna read you one paragraph here, and I'm gonna ask you to tell me what this is all about. And the people watching us, I ask you to pay attention to this. This is a quote from the detailed comments to this bill. First of all, it is important to point out that the amendment is to be subject to a provision which has been fully implemented and, in this sense, no longer has legal effect. And please pay attention, Dear people, to what is next: From the point of view of the principles of correct legislation, giving it a new sound is therefore a missed procedure. Well, it's a rather delicate language, the term "misplaced" is used... You also use a lot sharper... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'll finish up. However, this problem must be seen not as a failure of the legislative nature, but rather as a simple consequence of the assumptions adopted by the projectors... I'm sure that's what I mean by the P.I.S. members. 'Cause who would have thought of that? And further: which in themselves raises serious objections. Please comment: how do we, the senators... Besides, he was here, Mr. Senator, a whole series of legal solutions, laws on the order of the courts, the Court, and they all died. And now they're back, they're here for the second time because they were boobs. Tell me why we're even doing this when our Legislature Bureau says it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u24	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u25	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's the question. You remember perfectly, because you were very much involved in the discussion about the Constitutional Tribunal and the change of order in this respect, that not only we, the opposition senators, warned you that the adopted method of proceding is reprehensible and that the proposed legislation in this regard is contrary to the fundamental law, that is to say the Constitution. You also mentioned this to the Ombudsman, and other environments were talking about it, among others. the environment of Polish lawyers. Of course, you ignored it, considering that since you won the elections, you have the right to change everything by showing disrespect for the fundamental law, for the Constitution. However, today you are suggesting that the Constitutional Court Act requires some changes. Then how is it with this country's certainty and respect for the process of lawmaking? Don't you have any reflection here? And don't you think, Mr. Senator, that this procedure resembles something? Don't you have a specific déjà vu about those moments when we were investigating the Constitutional Court Act? Is this how you look righteous and fair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, regarding your answers to previous questions, my colleagues, I would like to ask: who decides that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is a judgment with a legal defect and that it does not need to be published then? I'm asking because this is some kind of weird solution. I'm not a lawyer, so I don't get it. Didn't he at the committee's meeting is it advisable for you not to make the mistakes you have made before when you adopt all those laws relating to judicial reform that we are correcting today or are you correcting them? Don't you think that rush was just embarrassing, and today's situation is a copy of that situation? The laws passed last night in the Sejm have been processed in Senate committees since 8 a.m. this morning, and from 1 p.m. we are to discuss this. Don't you think... Didn't you talk about it, and didn't you ask the marshal to take a break in our sitting, for example, by Tuesday, Wednesday next week, and quietly implement this bill? Is there an extraordinary situation that causes us to proceed in exactly the same compromising style over this bill? And that is the first question: who decides that the judgment of the Court of Justice, the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal is a legal defect? Because it's completely new. It wasn't like that before. If there was a settlement, it was published. And now some clerk at the Prime Minister's office, or maybe somebody else is gonna decide this: oh, that sentence is probably a legal flaw, so I'm not gonna publish it. Well, where does that lead?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u29	Senator Fedorovich asked a fairly long question. I've noted that this is the main general question about why we're doing this. It's true, isn't it? Mr Senator, as we have pointed out before and as the applicant has pointed out, the procedure is actually very fast, very fast, both with regard to the Sejm and the Senate, as you have noticed. However, this is all happening in a socio-political context. This is happening in the context of the risk that Poland will be affected by the provisions of the article. 7 of the Treaty, as well as in the context of the visit of Vice-President Timmermans. And the point is to just... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, God...]] It's just that... [[Voice from the room: It's like this...]] It's just that... [[Voice from the hall: Is this the law now?]] And it's about these allegations we've met, the allegations that we're not announcing the judgments of the Constitutional Court, these three, I'm not going to exchange dates anymore. That we don't announce, we don't promote, of course... Of course, that was the reason. And the fact that in this amendment, the amending act we do not call it judgments, only decisions, is because in our opinion what happened then, i.e. 9 March, when there is a constitution, art. 197, which states that the Constitutional Tribunal's activities are based on the ordinary law, and since the ordinary law on 22 December as so-called. A bill of repair or healing in relation to... as a law of June 25, only with this novel that talked about it I only give here one of the records, but one that was very visible The December Act assumes that the full composition is composed of 13 judges... However, the judgment of 9 March was handed down with 12 judges. And at this point, can you just say that this isn't a judgment with a flaw? Well, Mr. President criticized that there's a new definition. That's the decision. I am not talking about all the decisions, I am talking about them, Mr Senator, Mr President, these 3 judgments, these 3 decisions which are referred to in this law and which we are discussing today and which are to be announced. Nevertheless, Mr President, Mr Fedorowicz, there have been pressure all the time, there has been a discussion on the subject that these judgments have not been announced. And the fact is I've said it before. That these 3 judgments, the first 2 judgments and the third, which simply agree with the facts... But these first two judgments are derogatory, they simply remove those records that no longer exist in the legal system, they are not in the system of Polish law. So that right now we're... Well, like I said, the July 22nd bill replaced the June 25th bill. Our bill, which we are discussing, replaced the July 22nd bill. So these first two sentences are simply unobtrusive. This is You can say "vacuum," they're gone. However, since there have been such discussions, of course it is necessary to announce... If these were ex-definitione, by definition of judgments, then of course the Article would apply. 190 law, which states that judgments and judgments should be promoted. But if it was a mistake, and I'm giving you this example that goes the farthest way, that we have a record... The fact is that so far there has not been a situation in which the Constitutional Tribunal itself is simply a reviewer of those provisions on the basis of which the Court is to act. I'm sure this is the first time that's happened. Nevertheless, we are bound by the wording of the article. 197 constitutions which say that the Court operates on the basis of the ordinary law, and that some judges refer precisely to the fact that the constitution is used directly... Well, I've said that before. Please pay attention even to these 3 decisions, the 3 judgments we are discussing today in each of them is the ordinary law cited, even in those... Everyone else, too. So it's not like that. since the Court is resisting # As some say # It means that we can refer to the Constitution and not to the provisions of the ordinary law. This is simply not possible because the basic law is a law that regulates certain fundamental issues, and ordinary legislation or later even lower provisions continue to do so. Senator Sługocki stated that we have ignored the earlier regulations relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Senator, I think there are a lot of elements to this answer that I would like to give you, and I have just presented it to you. As you will recall the atmosphere there... the atmosphere there was called... This may be a little out of the scope of this item, but we need to recall the Act of 25 June, without this novel of 22 December, where you introduced the article. 137, so-called lex specialis, which was only meant for the five judges you pointed out, and you pointed out those five judges so far ahead. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 3 December 2015 that this was unlawful, i.e. that three judges were legally appointed and two judges appointed for those whose term of office ended on 2 and probably on 8 December 2015 were simply unlawfully appointed. [[Two judges...]] [[The voice from the hall:...ordained...]] And that's why... But pay attention... [[Quiet, please.]] At this point, of course, it is important to consider whether this whole article. 137, not only in the part that concerned two judges, but in the part that concerned all five, should not be denied. Well, the Court denied it in that part, but the President didn't take a vow from these three, and the Sejm chose the next three. Yeah, but you can recall the whole genesis of this discussion that arose in connection with matters relating to the Constitutional Tribunal... All this led to this December law, which was on 22 December, led to these acts of personal selection under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to our entire discussion. So, as you ask, didn't we disregard... I think we didn't ignore it, because in a situation where there was a judgment of the Court, which said that two judges were chosen incorrectly, then there was a novel, there was an article. 197, who said that we should base ourselves on the ordinary law as regards the rules governing the Court of Justice... Why shouldn't we be based on the December 22 bill? After all, this bill was not taken informally, unlawfully. It was taken by Parliament, signed by the President. And if so, why should the full composition be 12 instead of 13, just as it is in this ordinary law? We did not ignore, but there were different interpretations of whether it was possible to rule on the basis of the ordinary law or only directly on the basis of the Constitution. As for Senator Kleina... The senator asked who was deciding. It seems to me that somehow... The situation arises... The situation we are dealing with is very difficult, an unusual situation arose because the Constitutional Tribunal was not based on the provisions of the ordinary law, but was based only on, as he claimed, the constitution. And right now... And again, I could bring up this example. There are more such examples, but this example that in the ordinary law of December 22, there is a statement that the full composition is 13, and the sentence of March 9 speaks of 12... you know... Who can rule on this? It seems to me that there are situations in which it should be taken into account... It's just that the sovereign decides that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u30	Mr. Chairman... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr President, is this the end of the speech? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask...]] You wanna tell me? Just a moment, please. [[Very short.]] [[Well, well.]] [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u31	Oh, I'm sorry. So the question of who's gonna decide if the verdict has a legal defect... In theory, such situations can happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next week, next month. And who's gonna decide that? He's gonna have to be at the law firm again. Even in logic, it's said that it's settled... that a man who's a logician will be employed in a law firm, will analyze it logically and consent to the publication of a judgment or not. Yes? Because now the situation is a little...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u32	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator, do you have anything to add? [[Mr. Senator, it's ironic, but...]] [[I'm not ironic. I'm sorry if that's what it sounds like. I'm absolutely serious about this case, so there's no doubt. Who will determine that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has a legal defect?]] Good. Thank you. There's a question. Do you have anything to add, Senator? [[Lawyers...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u33	Art. 190 Constitutions are still in force. The Court's rulings are generally valid and final. But put this article together from the article. 197 stating that the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Court are governed by the law. Please pay attention... [[Voice from the room: There is no contradiction here.]] This example... [[There's no contradiction.]] What do you mean, it's not there? An example: the full composition, according to the ordinary law of 22 December 2015, is 13 judges and the Court ruled in the composition of 12 judges. And tell me now... Art. 197 speaks of the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal on the basis of the ordinary law and Article. 190 states that judgments are universally binding and final. If I took the liberty of not being ironic here, it was because the situation was very serious at the time, and we too faced a big challenge about how to behave. Nevertheless, as representatives of the sovereign, it seems that as the only power of the three Montescius authorities, which the sovereign directly chooses, we could not afford that the law we are adopting would not be respected. Like I said, there's a constitution here. But since the constitution is being invoked, let it be invoked with all the blessing. Let her be cited from the article. 197 saying that the organisation of the Court is governed by a law. [[Mr. Senator, this leads to the situation that in the future... let's not even talk about the past anymore...]] [[Mr. Senator!]] [[Who will determine in the future that there is a legal defect? That's what I asked.]] Mr Senator, I cannot imagine that in the future there could be such a situation that the Constitutional Tribunal would rule in a composition which would be incompatible with the law at issue, on which we are discussing, or with another law on the Constitutional Court, if such a law were to be published. I can't imagine it. It must be assumed a priori that representatives of public authorities are the most responsible people you can imagine having good will and acting in accordance with the article. 7 constitutions, i.e. on the basis of law and within the limits of law. That's how we imagine it. You know, if you put on a bad will and bring up all sorts of examples like that, of course... Let's hope this situation... Well, I can't imagine any similar situation that someone doesn't comply with the ordinary law... If he does not obey, it means that he is questioning our will, the will of the representative of the sovereign, who was the representative of the sovereign who accepted the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for a minority representative. [[I invite Senator Zientarski to the podium. There you go.]] Mr. Senator, I am impressed with the statement that the constitution is being treated at random. I agree with you that it is not right to treat the constitution at random, and I would therefore ask for the lawyer's answer for the lawyer. Art. 188, Art. 190... one more time: Art. 188, Art. 190 and perhaps one more, but let's leave it, they're actually talking about the ruling of the Court, which is also about judgments. The Lord listed judgments and orders among the judgments. I don't know what it's like with these orders, if there's an order from the Court... [[No, there isn't.]] I think there might be an order, but... [[No, there's no...]] [[It's just a resolution.]] [[Yes, resolutions and judgments.]] Yes? No orders? [[Yeah, no.]] Well, that's clear. But it's art. 189 states that the Constitutional Tribunal settles disputes between central constitutional authorities of the State. So he's doing this sort of thing. Am I right? [[No, because he decides, but in what form? In...]] Okay, but I'm not done yet. [[He settles disputes, which means he recognizes...]] You wanted to... [[...by issuing a ruling. It's a decision.]] You wanted to make a decision. [[Yes...]] And now for the overall treatment of the Constitution. You will agree with me that as regards Chapter I of the Preamble He is the one who has a slightly different meaning than the rest of the Constitution. The rest should be in accordance with Chapter I. He's kind of elevated over the rest of the constitution. And in this Chapter I in Article. 7 we read: The public authorities act on the basis and within the limits of the law. If any authority does not comply with the law applicable to that authority, i.e. in a composition other than this law, that's within the law, isn't that within the law? And if a given ruling, as you wish, and we say that the decision, is taken in a composition which is inconsistent with the law, that is, violates the article. 7, then who should decide, just now I am asking you this question. Or what should decide whether or not this ruling will change, and if so, how? Because I'll remind you that art. In paragraph 10, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: 1 speaks of the division and balance of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and the Constitutional Tribunal is a member of the judiciary, we agree. [[Of course.]] So tell me: if the Court is working in a bad composition, i.e. it violates the procedure laid down in the law, so in the law, who should remind him that it is working in a bad composition? And should such a judgment be published... or should such a judgment be published? Is this judgment a judgment? [[There's no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u36	That's the end of the question? Good. That, Senator, is Senator Waldemar Slugocki. But that's a question for Senator Zientarski? No... [[Yes.]] Wait a minute. [[I have a question too.]] Mr. Waldemar Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr Senator Minority Rapporteur! I want this thread that my esteemed previous speaker has touched, too, to take. Because, of course, there is a fundamental question of who in Poland has the competence to decide whether a given act of law is constitutional or not. And watch out! Senator Gogacz spoke of this very well. After all, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a ruling which, I understand, should satisfy the rulers today, that is, colleagues from the Law and Justice. As we all remember perfectly well, the ruling of the Constitutional Court stated that three judges were elected in a manner that was not in accordance with the rules of law. Then the fundamental question arises, Mr. Senator... I apologize for the triviality of comparison... [[Ask me a question.]] Yeah, yeah, that's the question. ...for the trivialism of the comparison I'm going to use. We have over 100 chairs here, but there are 100 chairs for senators. If one of them breaks So let's say that mine is rational to demolish the room and replace all 99 chairs, or just to fix this one? Thank you very much. [[Bad example, very bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u38	Thank you. [[Thank you...]] Does Senator Mieczysław Augustyn have a question for Senator Zientarski? [[I have asked questions and I am in this queue for Senator Gogach, but I also have one question for Senator Ziientarski.]] Then ask them right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u39	Well, if I can do it in a way out of order at this point, I'd be happy to. Mr Senator rapporteur, Mr Gogacz did not refer to this, he did not inform the House about the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Would you like to do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u40	I give the floor to the President. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u41	Thank you very much, Marshal. I answer the questions of Senators Czerwiński and Sługock together, because these questions are basically connected. Mr. Senator, the constitution is... It's the highest law. I'll remind you of the art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Constitution: Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the exercise of their office In effect, they are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution. I repeat, only the constitution. That's the first line. Here's the other thing. About this squad... Excuse me, sir, but you're confusing a misplaced squad with a full squadron. Full composition e.g. The senate chamber is 100 senators. And that's the full squad. But there could be 50, 60... and here it is similar. The full squad is 15 judges. Not 13, but 15, on the other hand, as many as he can judge, of course, with the majority in mind. Here, in this case, everyone who happens to be judges... So there was no other way, because like certain principles of logic You're known to follow these rules. They're pointing to... How can you, if at a given moment... Let's say someone's on leave, someone's sick, etc. How can you demand that everyone be there? At that point, there were 13 judges. It's gonna happen, 'cause it's gonna be a full squad... The situation may be that someone has passed their term of office, and the next one has not yet been elected. And then what? And we don't have a full team. Next: it ruled 12 and 10 was in favor, which is 2/3 of the total... So even if it was 15 and 10 were to rule, and most of it would be enough... I remind you that there were two separate sentences. The separate sentences only appear to be... Therefore, it was absolutely a full ruling. .. full composition. Everyone who was judges at a given time in a constitutional court ruled. That's it, period. Now, here's Mr. Slugocki's question. Well, it's obvious that the wrong man would be in a situation where someone would come, so to speak, dressed as a senator, not a senator... If the senator isn't here, the House can normally work. There's no doubt about it. It's the same thing here. If there are judges on the bench who aren't judges at the moment, because they're not chosen properly... A promise to the president doesn't punish that choice, absolutely. There have been judgments on the rank of the President's pledge. I'm not gonna say it again, 'cause I think this situation is known. As a matter of fact, Mr. President... Mr President's responsibility is a separate issue, which has also been mentioned here before. Except we're not talking about it today. It was undoubtedly a constitutional delicacy, not the only one, but it is not the subject of today's sitting. Senator Augustine asked... [[The Legal Bureau's opinion.]] ...of the Legal Bureau's opinion. The opinion of the Legislative Office was clear, namely that, according to the opinion, it is completely unnecessary, because the Constitution clearly sets out the way in which decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are promoted. The opinion of the first Supreme Court President was equally unambiguous. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u43	So that we don't bother the senator again. Based on what you said, I understood. You can then go back to the protocol. That judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the exercise of their office are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution. You interpret it in such a way that laws cannot impose on them anything, also a way of proceding. [[Yes, of course.]] Yes? [[Of course.]] So what's the squad? They're supposed to proceed if the constitution doesn't specify it, doesn't it? Sir, come on, you're in a loop right now. [[No, no, I'm not looped, sir...]] This is the first case. I'm not done yet. Second point, essential. I'm asking for a very simple explanation. If that is the case, please state it, and if it is not, please state that the constitution is incomplete here, contradictory, has gaps. Anything's possible. Well, why don't you explain that again? If the Constitutional Tribunal were to work, let's use the conjecture mode, it would be easier to respond in a composition incompatible with the law, i.e. Not so much imposed, but indicated by the law, would that be a violation of the law? How, then, can a decision taken in such a composition be treated, bearing in mind that, according to the Constitution, all authorities are balanced? [[Of course.]] That means there has to be an organ that balances the organ. There are no infallible organs, the Constitutional Tribunal is not God.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u44	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u45	Of course it's not God, and balancing is that the position of the legislative or executive bodies is higher, because it's up to them, for example, to pay, etc., all the... budget, etc. There's a dependency. That's the balancing. As far as the ruling is concerned, there is no other body that could judge the Constitutional Tribunal. There is not even an authority, as was mentioned, which may assess the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal pro domo sua. There's not even an organ like that. There isn't. Consequently, the Constitutional Court also has the full right to evaluate the Law on the Court itself and is authorised to do so. And I'm telling you again. If we're dealing with a dozen or dozen organ and they're all called in... This was the case here, all the judges who at the time were judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the Court of Justice, were in full session. Once again, like the Senate, the Senate operates in a 100-person squad. But that doesn't mean that we have the right quorum, etc., and that... well, since we have so many judges, how many are there at the moment, and everyone is involved, it's hard not to be able to act... what does that mean? Is it that the Court does not act, or that it should act in situations where it is obliged to do so, not just authorised? And he ruled, declared a judgment which absolutely, in an absolute manner must be published immediately. And since it wasn't published, it's another delicacy of those who decided not to publish. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm there...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u46	Yes? [[Last sentence, last question.]] Mr. Senator, how about the next round? [[I'll shut myself down later. I promise, Mrs. Marshal.]] It's just so short. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u47	Yes. Senator, let me ask you clearly and clearly: what if there is a manifest breach of procedure? What about the Court's decision then? Should or should not be published? [[To find out...]] [[What's to publish? A decision?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u48	Of course, it should be, because, as I say again, there is no authority empowered to assess the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The ruling is final or, as you said, sacred and indisputable. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u49	Thank you very much. [[It's an oracle.]] Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Mieczysław... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Sentence, yes... he solved the problem, didn't he? That's where we were talking about a decision, because it's about competence. You could say it's a problem, but it's a judgment.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I understand that this is a question for the president...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u50	To see President Gogach. Mr. Senator, you said here that those judgments that will be published will not have practical significance. One of them is the judgment of 13 December 2016. [[There isn't one.]] [[Voice from the room: from 2016?]] From 2016, yes. It is a judgment which explicitly denied the right of the ordinary legislator to interfere in the constitutional system of declaring decisions of a constitutional court. And that's what we're doing. The paradox is that there will be a judgment that forbids us to repeat, forbids us to make the law that is being proposed today. [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry.]] Let me quote you... [[As regards the justification and the law in question, we are dealing with the announcement of the decisions of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November.]] Sorry, August 11th. That sentence, I mean. [[August 11th, right.]] Yes. That is why this proposal raises such doubts. I'd ask the senator to refer to it. And in this context, I want to ask you a second question. In view of the fact that this judgment which I am referring to and the opinions of the Legislative Office, the opinions of the senators, the opinions of many lawyers, the opinion of the Ombudsman states that this law will be taken in violation of the law, should this law be published in accordance with the principle of logic to which you wanted to convince us here? If that's the case... [[Thank you very much...]] I don't think it should be published because it's being accepted in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. [[He already asked.]] Excuse me, Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Just two notes. That will also be a question for the senator. The full squad, as you said, is 15 judges. It was a matter of whether it was 12 or 13. Well, the matter was simple, it was enough to take a vow from two properly elected judges and we wouldn't have to discuss it at all. As far as the decision is concerned, the name is, as I recall, the decision in the case of self-governments e.g. So we're choosing someone, we're deciding something... here's the decision. It's a sentence. This is a sentence that should be published. There's no discussion here. My question to the rapporteur is so... I mean this outrageous process at all the three committee meetings that took place today. Why wasn't there a representative of the applicants at the committee meeting? As chairman, did you invite any of these representatives? I understand that it was only yesterday that the Sejm session ended, but there were 12 hours to invite someone. It was also possible not to convene a meeting in this manner; we have already discussed this issue. If the representative was invited, who was it? And why wasn't he there? Who else was invited to the meeting concerning such important decisions of the system, resolutions, laws? Who else was invited to the committee meeting? And one more question. What other opinions were there on such important matters besides the opinions of the committee and the Legislative Bureau? Were there opinions like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much, but I regret to say that Senator Florek...]] I understand he asked... [[...was completely exhausted by the contents of my questions, from A to Z.]] Good. Therefore, now Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Zientarski, so...]] Maybe in a minute. [[Exactly.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u54	Senator Florek pointed out the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the context of Senator Ziientarski's statement, Mr President, who was just saying that the full squad was 15 judges... Well, as far as the provisions of the Act of 22 December are concerned, as far as the full composition is concerned, there is a record that says that it is at least 13 judges, so that it can of course be 15. Well, at least 13. Despite these provisions, the Court held a 12-member hearing on 9 March. As for the procession, Mr. Senator, yes, all those who are involved are invited. It's about those points we're considering. The representatives of the applicants, i.e. in this case Members, were invited but simply did not come. Our power does not reach so far as to simply influence them in some way, but, of course, the invitation has been made. I even asked at the secretary's office, and I asked today, so that it was certainly sent. As far as opinions are concerned, I did not see that there were any other opinions besides this one opinion of the Legislative Office. As for the question of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, is there any point... As I understand it, you asked if it makes sense to adopt this bill. Yes? [[Yes. In view of the fact that the judgment of 11 August 2016 states that a legislative body cannot interfere with the system of publication of judgments, is it permissible for us to present such a draft at all?]] Mr. Senator... [[All the more so because it's the judgment that's about to be published.]] This sentence... At this point, we're talking about a settlement. We're changing the art. 19 Act introducing the Constitutional Tribunal rules, we change it in such a way that we leave the Court's ruling and... [[There's no settlement, there's no settlement.]] No, in this senate print, we're talking about decisions. [[But there's no birth certificate, there's no definition.]] Well, we've discussed this before. It is the Court's decision taken in breach of the law. Of course, we exchange the Act of 25 June 2015, we exchange the Act of 22 July 2016, which literally, by definition... We are talking about decisions taken in violation of the rules, first this earlier law, then this law of 22 July. This is not enough, in the justification of this law, to state that these arrangements concern a special situation, covering only 3 decisions which have been issued in breach of the law. The authors of the project propose to find a compromise and publish these decisions with appropriate annotations according to the given formula. At least I'm gonna read the beginning of this, because I'm sure you have those prints. This publication is to be accompanied by the following annotation: the judgment of 11 August 2016 concerns compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland with the provisions of the Law of 22 July 2016 on the Constitutional Tribunal, which expired on 19 December 2016 in force under Article. 3 in conjunction with Article. 23 of the Act . Introductory provisions... just the one we're working on. etc., etc. This judgment was delivered in breach of the provisions of the Law of 22 July 2016. So these very decisions, whether, as you call them, judgments will simply be pronounced with an annotation, precisely with such an annotation that this has occurred with a violation of the law. [[I still have a question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u56	But... [[Excuse me...]] ...you haven't answered my second question yet. [[Oh, yeah.]] The second question was this: in view of the fact that the decision on the system of declaring constitutional court decisions in the opinion of so many entities is contrary to the constitutional provisions, i.e. those adopted in violation of the law, should such a law, in your opinion, be published in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u57	Thank you. Mr. Senator, you might want to ask and you'll answer both questions right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u58	Good. Senator rapporteur, you said there were no other opinions. I'd like to ask if that's due to the procedure. Because since the Sejm was voted out at 7:00 this morning at 8:00, it would be hard to have any other opinions. So I guess that's because of this sudden, special way of proceding. But you didn't answer my second question either. I mean, who else was invited to the committee meeting, except, of course, the applicants, whom you say they were invited and were not present. I'd like to know if there's any more... I don't know, I see in the gym right now, for example. ombudsman. Was he invited, too? Were other people invited to a committee meeting on such an important matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u59	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u60	Mr. Senator, Mrs. Marshal, I would have to ask the secretariats of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to simply present a list of the people who have been invited to this Senate meeting today. And as for the other opinions... I don't know, maybe you're talking about opinions at the procession stage in the Seym... [[Of course, there are opinions at the procession stage in the Sejm, but we, as Senate of the Republic of Poland, are independent here...]] But you said you still had an opinion. Then why don't you give us your opinion. 'Cause I only have the opinion of the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u61	Yeah, well, it was just hard to get that opinion at night. That's why there was a motion to adjourn the sitting so that we could prepare ourselves. Well, unfortunately, we were voted out at the committee's meeting and we're proceeding in this way, which is why it wasn't possible. That's why I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u62	It was supposed to be a question, Mr. Senator. Does Mr President have anything to add on both matters? [[Voice from the room: Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u63	No, but these are... I think I answered. As for the second question of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, does it make sense to promote these decisions, since they are simply so adopted, since the legal rules for which these decisions have been made are simply no longer in the legal system, I believe that it makes sense, of course, because, although these standards are no longer in the legal system, they have been replaced by other legal standards, but it will be some fulfilment of those expectations which have certainly taken place here. In addition, the expectations of the need, the conclusion of this discussion or the debate on the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, in the context, of course, as I said earlier, of the visits of the Vice-President of the European Commission as well as in the context of the Article. 7, which... certainly none of us, nor the state, should we be interested in having him run against us, so that he can enter into force with us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a recess until 15.10. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention will be held at 2.50 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 44 to 15 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u65	I'm reopening the session. We continue with the questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? Senator Blackbay. There you go... [[If we can move the order, Mr. Marshal, because I have to...]] Excuse me? [[Can we move the order? The point is, I'm the second one...]] How? [[Well, somebody in front of me now...]] Good. Who's calling? You're welcome. Senator Grodzki. [[Senator Shark came forward before me.]] [[Oh, no, that's...]] Oh, I'm sorry, ladies first. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u66	I have a question. We're in a phase, I think. [[Questions.]] ...to ask questions to you... Oh, you're coming. Good. It's me... [[There was a rapporteur.]] Senator Secretary probably has a list of speakers asking questions... I have a question for Senator Gogach. Mr. Senator, we've talked about this before, but I'd like to ask... Why have we called this meeting today and this committee meeting when we are talking here about decisions, not judgments or judgments of the Court of Justice of these 3 dates? So that's not the term... That's a non-legal term. In the explanatory memorandum it is stated that the provisions considered incompatible with the Constitution for the first two of these decisions have not been in force for many months (the third states that the provisions examined were in line with the Constitution and its publication is all the more irrelevant for the Polish legal system). I therefore do not see the need for today's debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Senator! We've received a referral from your marshal... The Commission received a referral from Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. Mr. Marshal received what we find in the senate printing, namely the printing that is signed by Marshal Marek Kuchciński. So the Senate received, in accordance with the article of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, an act adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland at its sixty-first meeting on 12 April, i.e. yesterday. Of course, the bill in question, I'm not going to read any more... So that we move as if within the framework of such a mechanism of formal, regulatory actions, resulting, of course, also from laws concerning our activities. So it is our duty to review the bill that has just been sent to us by the Sejm. And that is what we have done today, and we have presented this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, using medical comparisons, it can be said that this situation resembles treatment for a supposedly ill person only so that the foreign family is satisfied. Such pseudocollation usually results in complications or death. Therefore, my question is this. Well, the expectations of the European Commission were defined differently. And the proposed modifications seem to be completely incompatible with the expectations of the European Commission, which she expressed, among others. In a statement from the Supreme Court, President Gersdorf. Could you explain why we are so stubbornly avoiding complying with the requirements of the European Commission? [[I'm sorry, aren't they compatible with whose expectations?]] The European Commission. I can quote that. [[Well, yes, because the senator, speaking of not being in line with the expectations of the European Commission, gave an example of your first president, didn't he?]] No, no. I said, why did she say in her writing... [[Voice from the room: Yes, in the speech.]] In his speech. I would like to quote this passage: "Irrespective of the above, it should be pointed out that the proposed amendments to the SN Act do not implement the Commission's recommendation... And further: The document recommends that the Law on the Supreme Court be amended so that: the reduced retirement age does not apply.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... etc. So that the proposed changes do not concern these issues at all. [[Mr. Senator, as I understand it, this is a statement...]] Question: why does the legislator, unknown, stubbornly maniac push side solutions rather than those expected by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u70	Mr Senator, as regards the arguments per analogy you cited, they are never the best of the set of arguments that can be applied. As far as health protection is concerned and as regards the judiciary, and at this point in time as regards the Constitutional Tribunal, these are just different characteristics. And as to whether there is any point in pushing this bill, a law that aims to make the decisions published, since they are not judgments, they are merely decisions. I understand these decisions aren't judgments, right? I'll tell you what. When we read into the justification of the applicants, it is attached to the initiative of the Sejm, we will see that the applicants very strongly stress the fact that this nevertheless applies to those legal standards which are currently not in the legal system. They're just gone, as we talked about earlier. These legal standards were derogated. The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is currently in force... This law is binding, and there are no previous laws in force. And those judgments simply refer to earlier laws. In this situation, the initiators assume in the explanatory memorandum In view of the expectations that have taken place all the time That these judgments or, as set out in the Act, these decisions will be promoted, will be announced. There was a broad debate around this, a debate involving representatives of the European Union or representatives of the Venice Commission, which even came here twice as far as the Constitutional Tribunal was concerned. So it is a signal that the Polish State is sending to the European Commission, to all stakeholders, as regards the area concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, a signal is being sent that we simply want to put an end to this dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal, the polemicism about the Constitutional Court. And despite the fact that these records have the power that they have, that they are decisions, and not judgments, regardless of how we define a decision, it will be an announcement, of course, with an annotation, but an announcement. And it is, Mr. Senator, the signal is being sent. ♪ Like I said ♪ To all the parties involved in this discussion about the Constitutional Court, Poland has good will to conclude this discussion. That is why I think it would be a good idea if we adopted this law, the 782 Print Act. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u71	Thank you. It's time for you to ask Senator Blackbay if he's ready. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm still waiting ready, but unfortunately the recipient left.]] So you're withdrawing the question? [[No, I will, but when Senator Zientarski gets back, he's out for a while. He'll probably be back soon, I suppose.]] Is this gonna be such an obstruction from the Platform that you're gonna wait for your friend to come back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm kidding. Senator Florek. [[No, no. I wouldn't joke, sir. I'd like to say that obstruction is something we can really learn from your marshal. Thank you.]] Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mr President, the marshal has asked the committee to consider this law, but the time limit for the committee meeting is decided either by the committee itself or by the chairman of the committee. And that is why my question is: why did you, Mr President, decide to hold this meeting today, so suddenly, early, at 8:30? And that's a question, that's a question... I believe that as regards the meeting on proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, very important and important, we would expect that such a meeting would be invited, for example. President Julia Przyłębska, because as far as we know, she also had talks with Frans Timmermans and could tell us a lot, as well as for today's sitting... If you could see if you were invited to... because you didn't remember who was invited. Was she invited to this morning's committee meeting and whether or not Is that the question to the Marshal who was invited to today's plenary session? And if not and if these deliberations were prolonged, perhaps it would be worth inviting Julia Przyłębska too, because this mainly concerns matters relating to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, I think Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, who was the president at the time, would also be able to answer these questions, but Okay, I get it. Ms Julia Przyłębska is currently president and could tell us a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u73	Mr. Senator, why did I call the meeting... I have called a meeting of the Legislative Committee, and there is also a Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. As far as I am concerned, of course I called them because I thought that the matter we are dealing with is for arguments that have already been raised and which we also find in the justification for this law, very important. And I think the sooner she's admitted, the sooner she's dealt with, the better. That's why I've decided that these committees should sit down. At least The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions agreed As soon as possible. Hence, of course, the term. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, this doesn't concern... This scope we are dealing with concerns 3 decisions, those whose dates we have already mentioned. And these are the only regulations we're dealing with, i.e. we are not dealing with the normal functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, we are only dealing with 3 decisions concerning The standards that no longer function in the legal system, and we are dealing with their promotion, consenting to them being simply announced under such conditions as are mentioned here, that this will not be a judgment, but a decision and that the announcement will be acknowledged. With regard to who was invited to the committee meeting, I see that I have received a text message, which is the secretariat of the Legislative Commission, which works well. The Legislative Commission has issued invitations to the Ministry of Justice. It was of course, and it's still there. I'm really happy for you. You are the Deputy Minister of Justice. An invitation was also sent to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The invitation was also sent to the rapporteur and to the applicant. As far as I know, it was Mr Piotrowicz and another Member. And that was, as a result, all the invitations that were made.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senator showed up... Mr. Senator, I have a question for your senator as a man of experience in the legal field. I would like to ask the senator to extend this concept to judgments with a legal defect. Is there even such a legal concept? Are there any cases? Is it possible that they will occur and whether, as far as the countries of the European Union are concerned, There is such a thing as: judgments of the tribunal or of the supreme court, because there is not a tribunal everywhere, with a legal defect? And we don't apply them because the Supreme Court or the Court has ruled with a legal defect. Therefore, thank you, we will not use it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u76	Yes: the legal defect does not concern the substance of the decision... [[Sentence.]] ...i.e. it does not concern the substance of the decision And whether we like the decision or not, and we think it's legally flawed. But, of course, such a concept exists in law. There is, and that is what we would be talking about if we were dealing with an organ in which a judge ruled, who is not a judge. Well, in that case, we're dealing with a legal defect. And that's the situation right now. It concerns the judgments of the Court, where persons who are not judges within the meaning of the Constitution... of the judgment of the Court, which has not been published, but has been declared. And here we're dealing with... In these three cases, there can be no legal defect. There can't be any legal issue. And acknowledgment... I understand that Parliament is judging. Right? Because there have already been questions about who's actually going to judge if it's a legal defect. Well, we don't really know who's gonna judge that. And according to the Constitution, the substance of the decision is not subject to any control, no control, because the judgment is final and, so to speak, is immediately announced without any evaluation. It's just that there's no authority that's entitled to be evaluated. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to say that these three judgments had a legal defect. These are normal sentences. I repeat once again: we have in the constitution written that the Court settles disputes of competence, i.e. it recognizes, that is the settlement of cases. But we're talking about the form of this decision. The form of the decision is either a judgment or a resolution. Yes? It cannot be a decision and a form of decision. Well, that settles it, doesn't it? And that's how we hear it. No, he decides by passing a judgment, giving a judgment, not a judgment. By issuing a sentence, a resolution... This is the situation which, in my opinion, is clear, clear. And so far, none of the constitutionalists... There is no doubt in the doctrine either, and there is no doubt in any comment on this issue. [[It's a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u77	Mr Florek, a formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u78	Mr. Marshal, formal motion. I have been told that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal was invited that the rapporteur was invited that the applicant was... Well, the Minister of Justice is here, and that's what we're happy about. But these other people aren't present. I therefore ask, Mr Marshal, for a break, preferably by Monday, and for the invitation of both the President of the Court and these rapporteurs and applicants, so that we can also get answers from them. [[Especially the president.]] Yes, especially the president. [[Especially the president, yes.]] So that you can... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u79	I received word that the president was invited to the hearing, but she didn't come. [[Yeah, but we don't know why she didn't come. And that's why I'm asking you to stop sitting. I'll see you Monday.]] [[We have questions for the president.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you have the power!]] But it's not... Thank you very much, but I think you're overestimating me. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't announce this break, I would ask you to vote it out.]] [[Because there are questions for the president.]] Okay, we can vote. Who's in favour of a request for a break? [[The apparatus doesn't work.]] [[The apparatus doesn't work.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's working. Thank you.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. 13 senators voted. [[Voting No 3]] I'm saying there's no quorum. [[But most of them are in favour.]] I'm saying there's no quorum. Your motion has not been accepted. As soon as the quorum appears, we will be voting on this proposal again. [[Mr. Marshal, but read the result.]] I read it. 13 senators voted. It's Friday the 13th and 13 senators voted. [[And 13 hours after the adoption...]] [[It was 10 against 3 and no one abstained.]] More questions. [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions? Thank you very much... [[They're here, ……]] [[They're ……]] Senator Shark said there were no questions. [[Me?]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It is you who must state, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't say that.]] I asked because I didn't see any calls. [[And I'd like to ask you a question.]] [[I said it. I admit I'm the one who told her not to be on you, Anne.]] [[All right.]] [[Because I thought there wasn't.]] Please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Now we're gonna have to come up with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u80	No, I have a lot of questions, but right now, I'm just gonna ask one thing. Tell me. It's for the senator of the rapporteur. . whether the Minister or you explained the scope of the change at the committee meeting. 'Cause I think it's a completely apparent change, and I'm gonna talk about it again. It's completely apparent. That's the same question I asked the Minister. Would you mind telling me what the Minister's response was?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u81	Mr Marshal, the scope of the amendments to this law concerns three decisions whose numbers and dates have already been mentioned here. These decisions, e.g. The decision of 9 March is very important and very important, because they will contest the whole novel, so-called. corrective novel of 22 December 2015 So this is... It would most often be mentioned here, at least by me, as an example of a minimum of 13 judges. And there were 12 judges sitting, who just had this judgment, and they just passed a ruling according to the provisions of the law. And this is the decision which, for example, is very important, and has been discussed for a very long time. As I said, you pushed, you demanded that this decision be published, that it be promoted, and there was a big public debate around it. As regards the judgment of 11 August, this judgment questioned the provisions of the Act of 22 July, among others. those provisions on which the public debate took place concerning, for example, the handling of applications submitted to the Court in the order of impact. And, of course, there was a big debate. This is a whole series, I can, of course, open the relevant legal acts and present what was the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. And there is, of course, this judgment, the ruling of 7 November, but it simply agrees in this main part that the provisions on which the objections were raised are in line with the applicable law. That's why there's this scope. Well, it seems that the applicants went in that direction, that in particular the first two sentences caused the biggest resonance in terms of political discussion in Poland, and it is as if such fundamental issues that contributed to this polemic, this discussion around the Constitutional Tribunal. They were most often mentioned, as I remember, and you participated, I participated in a meeting with the Venice Commission... the arguments that brought up these decisions were very often. They also rained at other meetings, rained in public space, in public discourse. And it seems that the legislator's focus on these decisions makes a great deal of sense by the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u82	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u83	Senator rapporteur, please answer: will this amendment of the law also have an effect on other judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, or may it have an effect in the future? Not for those judgments that were, but for those that would be. [[I'm supposed to answer that now, aren't I?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u84	Mr. Marshal, this bill has an effect on decisions. Not the judgments that have been referred to. This law does not apply to judgments which have been handed down, are issued and will be issued. And I can't imagine such a situation that I've mentioned before, in answer to other questions, that in the Polish country... I think it should be a task for all of us, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, not just to... to have a collision or to miss out on the constitution and the ordinary bill... Well, that's what I brought up: art. 197 constitutions and laws that speak of composition. Well, we work mostly on these examples. And it should be our duty to never do anything like this again, and I firmly believe that it will never happen. As I said, this law concerns only these three decisions, it does not concern the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Summary. I listened to the senator and Senator Ziientarski's statements on this bill. If you do something, it's to make it work, to make it work. And if we pass the bill, and the state comes back in a week and you're making a mess... [[We're not coming.]] Well, that would be normal, but it better not be. My question is... [[Voice from the Chamber: In this term of office.]] Of course, in this term of office, it's normal. My question is this. Mr. Senator, do you have any information? Was this even the subject of the committee's deliberations? The draft law that you will adopt will be satisfactory to the European Commission and the Venice Commission? It is about the positions of the institutions I have mentioned in the Constitutional Tribunal case. Is this bill and the sound of it... Do you have feedback, of course unofficial, that it is okay that the bill deals with the whole matter of the assessment by the Venice Commission and the European Commission of the problem with the rule of law as regards the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u87	Mr. Senator, I don't have that kind of information, of course, but if I'm signing the bill, it's because, at least on the way of deduction... Since there were expectations regarding the announcement of these 3 decisions, and since these expectations were discussed at a very high level, within the framework of, say, the highest policy, it can be said, even though the publication of these decisions, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, is legally indifferent... There are also such quotations here. The fact that, despite the fact that the standards that have been challenged by these decisions... Even if it's not a judgment, it's a decision, even if it's published with a proper annotation... you know, it's sending a signal. So to speak, I totally agree with those intentions and those records. This will be a clear signal sent to the Commission. We're promoting these records, and the fact that they're going into a legal vacuum is... well, that's it. It so happens that the subsequent laws on the Constitutional Court have caused that the legal rules concerned by these decisions simply do not exist in the legal system. And there's nothing we can do about it. They're just gone and it's over. Judgments have not been announced, decisions have not been announced, and the standards that were previously in force are simply not in the legal system. However, the promotion is the sending of a signal, it is an indication that we want to heal, normalize the situation around the Constitutional Court. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have one question for this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u88	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I accept with great joy that you want to settle matters around the Constitutional Court, but if I may, I will ask you something. From the senator's statement, I conclude that this is material enough to make the Polish government's relations The European Union was not a problem in the Constitutional Tribunal case. That's how I understand your statement. It'll be done as part of a good signal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u90	Mr. Senator, that's a good signal. In fact, such an expression fell out of my mouth, but the word "sufficient" did not fall. Maybe... [[That's not what I'm asking.]] Well, you're asking... Of course, you know that we're moving in a certain area of logic, and I wouldn't be able to afford to say that's enough. And the fact that this is a very important signal, I can emphasize all the time. Despite the legal context I've already mentioned... I'm sure that's not good enough. Because in order to normalize the situation around the Constitutional Tribunal, so that such a negative discussion no longer takes place so that there are no negative voices, many other actions need to be carried out. As far as the Senate is concerned, we are moving within the framework of the paragraph on this law and I can say that this is a very important signal when it comes to causing the situation to calm down around the Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u91	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u92	Senator rapporteur, if someone, i.e. the executive authority, calls the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal a decision, will this law not apply? I continue, although more so inquisitively, the question I asked. So the executive authority in the future calls the judgment a decision, finds that it is not a judgment, and will apply the provisions of this law. Is it possible from a legal point of view, or is it impossible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u93	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u94	The provisions of this law concern three specific decisions. I'm gonna say what I said before. I can't imagine the situation... We should do everything beyond political divisions so that there will never be such a situation that the provisions of the ordinary law would not correspond or be in line with the provisions of the basic law. And here was the situation. This bill, which we are discussing, concerns only these three decisions. As far as public authorities are concerned, which, of course, should act, as I have already quoted here, under the law and within the limits of the law, I will say that they cannot simply refer to themselves as a judgment by decision, because the judgment, in accordance with the article. 190 basic law, it is simply issued and should be announced. What we talk about all the time, it's certainly very difficult matter, we don't get to see anything like that. Of course, we all know what a constitutional act is, but we have met with something that the Constitutional Tribunal has assessed the provisions of a law that regulates its activities. And at this point, the Court... The Court assessed this as was the case in its ruling of 9 March, but the ordinary provisions stated that the Court could issue such a judgment in full composition and that the full composition was a minimum of 13 judges, whereas the Court issued that judgment in the composition of 12 judges. And at this point, you can recall those words I said, that it's logic to decide if it's anything else... It seems obvious that this has been taken contrary to the ordinary law. But we must never allow the law to be so ordinary with the Constitutional Act... that there is such a discrepancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u95	Senator Florek. [[Augustine.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Augustine's been waiting longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u96	Thank you. Mr Marshal and Mr President. Many times even you have used the terms "decision," "judgment." Don't you think the quality of this presentation would have been better if it had been supplemented with a glossary? Because from what the constitutionalist, our lawyer colleague, Mr Zientarski, has said, this is a common term. Shouldn't we just leave it like this? And the other thing. Whether we call it one way or another, if there hasn't been a prior publication of these judgments or, as we suggest here, a decision, I understand someone acted against the law. Should we not refer to this fact in this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u97	Well, Mr. Senator, when it comes to deciding, we obviously don't have a vocabulary. Exactly, as you said, I use it interchangeably, once I say judgment, once judgment. Well, that's the way it is, because... [[The chairman even...]] ...this document, which came out of the Constitutional Tribunal, was entitled "The Court of Justice." He was simply literally named, but because he wasn't being promoted, at this point he doesn't meet... Well, all the conditions have not been met so that it can be put into legal circulation. I allow myself to speak of the judgment to draw attention to what it is called. Of course, the terms I use are set out in this law. The wording of the decision is in this law. We are talking about 3 decisions: March, July and November. That's what we're talking about. The second part of the question... Remind me of her. [[Whether it was a decision or a judgment, they were not published despite the obligation. Hence this bill, hence the previous protests, also in Brussels. Why is there no law in this law that refers to the responsibility of those who were obliged to do so before?]] Mr. Senator, well, the constitution speaks in the article. 197, that it is the act of the Constitutional Tribunal, as I understand it, that the ordinary law of the Constitutional Tribunal simply regulates the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. And here's an example that's connected to the full squad just... There was not a minimum of 13 judges in the composition referred to by the law. It was a 12-person squad, and it made us... well, we got a message that that's why it wasn't announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u98	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u99	Thank you very much. You go back to the full lineup all the time. We remind you that 15 people are a full team. You say there were 12, not 13 judges, but we keep explaining that if the president took a vow from three actually... [[At least 13.]] Yeah, but there wasn't any more. It's hard to expect more than 12 of them when there's no more sworn in. [[They were all judges, the whole chamber.]] Mr. rapporteur, you said that the bill is aimed at ordering our legal system. Mr. Augustine noticed about the same thing, so that I might repeat his arguments. Of course, we, too, are in favour of this legal system being organized. It's just a pity you're taking this path. This system could have been organized before. He's staying right now... Yeah, well, it's obvious there was no publication. Now the publication of the judgment is to be called the publication of the decision. This game is being played right now and, as I see it, it's more or less limited to the terms "decision" and "judgment." You also used the concept of legal vacuum a moment ago. There's a game going on that's got a possible... Yeah, we want to get out of that patty we're dealing with right now. The question is why. After all, the simple way out of what happened would be to publish those judgments. You have to admit a mistake, not create a new law that doesn't actually change anything. Well, under the law, she's obviously not going to bring anything in. There are now enough tools to get out of the current situation without adopting this law. All you have to do is publish it. So the question is, isn't it the easier way to think about what I'm talking about right now... And what you said at first, it's about ordering things. What I'm talking about is that it's gonna sort things out much quicker than just keeping divisive and discussing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u100	Mr. Senator, we have a presentation like this... just like the one we're working on. So we have this bill that we're working on. We have a proposal to adopt such amendments, amendments aimed at amending the Act, the Introductory Rules, etc., especially in the article. 19... it's about art. 19 simply state that the decisions taken by the Court will be promoted. All I can say is that... you know, those arguments we've been making before, they're still circling the same thing, which means that the Court's meeting wasn't in line with the ordinary law. But, well, we have specific records that we received from the Sejm and that we're just working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u101	Senator Comfort. Maybe from here... [[There's no card in it, which is why the microphone doesn't work.]] Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, you have repeatedly referred to the fact that the Court was then acting in a composition incompatible with the ordinary law. I think that in order for the picture to be complete, we should first ask ourselves what kind of lawgiver it is to know that there are 12 judges in the composition, to write down that there must be 13. It was a paralyzing effect. What would you call... Because if you look at it, you'll see that in the chapter of the Senate and the Senate, it's said that there are 100 senators, right? And most of it's written down in the rules. Theoretically, we can imagine a situation such as this, that the Rules of Procedure will claim that there must be 100 senators in order to be able to vote at all. And you know it's never gonna happen because someone's always gonna be sick. Everything can be paralyzed. And I would like you to tell me what to call the act of the legislator who paralyzes, for political purposes only, the entire institution for a few months.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u103	Mr Senator, from a formal legal point of view, when the Constitutional Tribunal has 15 judges, the provision that the full composition is a minimum of 13 is simply part of this formal requirement. And here we're not doing anything that goes against it. Well, you just have to reach for the ratio legis of the legislature... of December 22nd... no, it's in the Senate... the Act of December 22nd... Well, that's what the legislator decided. I have not heard that this decision is incompatible with the formal side, with... Well, the legislator decides whether there will be a record in which it will be mentioned that it is a minimum of 13, 14 or 12. The legislator, as the representative of the nation, the sovereign, decided to write that the full squad was at least 13 judges, not less. Well, it's just a record that, I understand, when he was taken... He wasn't taken for a specific time or for a short time. Such a provision was simply adopted in the ordinary Constitutional Tribunal Act, in the Act of 25 June 2015, in the December novel... This record was taken with such an attitude 'Cause that's what we always do. That he's just gonna go on. And here it is difficult to say that the situation was one way or another. We, as I understand it, did not take on a specific situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u104	Senator Zientarski, if he didn't back out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u105	Mr President, as far as your statement is concerned, that this was not created for a specific situation, please remember that it was, so to speak, 7 legal approaches to the Court. I think this is the world record for one bill... Because the whole time there was something new, a new situation arose. Remember that. That's one thing. But I have a question of that kind. Why do you say that all the issues relating to these three judgments are already out of the loop, are not important, therefore the publication will not change anything? After all, this concerns a fundamental point, namely the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. After all, those three judges who have been elected by law... And this is confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which the authorities did not want and do not want to publish, and it results in this... After all, these three judges are alive, these three judges are still awaiting their judicial role. So it's not like it's all désactualité and there's actually nothing to talk about. Therefore, this issue What are we talking about here? This is a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u106	Mr. Senator, just in line with what's in the Constitution, in the article. 194, we can read, the Constitutional Tribunal consists of 15 judges, selected individually by the Sejm for 9 years, among... etc., etc. Well, then, if it's made up of 15 judges, it's not 18. There were once, as I recall, such proposals to increase the number of judges and, of course, it is publicistically possible to say so, but we are to stick to the provisions of the basic law which speaks of 15 judges. And those 15 judges. Of course, those who are elected by the Sejm and from whom the President's oath is taken That's what this is. And that's what happened... And after that judgment of 3 December 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal did not run by Mrs Julia Przyłębska, only the Constitutional Tribunal led by the previous President It simply decided that some of the judges who were elected by the previous political agreement, i.e. according to the article. The 137th June Act was elected in violation of the Constitution. And that's what caused all this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's all caused a stir. Some of the judges may have taken their vows... Part of the judges were elected in breach of the Constitution and part of the judges were elected in breach of the Constitution. It's okay. And in that situation, everyone was treated as a whole... [[What do you mean, collective responsibility when everyone was chosen separately?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u107	Mr. Senator... yes, Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u108	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the representative of the minority's motion. [[Take the constitution.]] [[Out of your mind, you mean out of nothing?]] [[Please...]] [[Voice from the room: Unconstitutional.]] This time without a constitution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Although I don't know how it's gonna end. Mr. Counselor, and at the same time Mr. Senator, the reason for everything was the 2015 Act, which in the Episode Recipe, added... Let me remind you that was when you found out what the results of the presidential election were. And then you had to save yourself. So the day after that, there was a committee meeting, and there was an accident rule added, and he functioned: five new members of the Constitutional Tribunal were elected. And then the Constitutional Tribunal stated, in its judgment of 3 December 2015, in its operative part, that some of these new elected members... [[Three, to be exact.]] ...that specifically three were chosen correctly, and some, specifically two, incorrectly. [[Yes.]] I wanted to bring it closer to our listeners, not to your counsel. Let us now imagine the following situation. We have a set of superior laws, let it be a decalogue, and there's a recipe: don't steal. And now the legislator in some country is adopting this law: it is forbidden to steal except for the days on which it rains then it is lawful to steal umbrellas. I'm not trivializing here. The question here is: is this provision in accordance with the principle of stealing or not? Can future and uncertain events be subject to the Court's judgment... I'm sorry, from the provisions of the bill, and also from the Constitutional Court's judgment... What would happen if the President had written down the first meeting before the date on which the mandates of the previous members of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which the rights were entered, or were the three elected to enter? What would have happened if the Court had issued that judgment on 3 December, e.g. July? How would he know in July who will be the chosen ones and who will not? How would he know that? Could the judgment be based on the date of the judgment? And tell me how it is with these umbrellas: is it allowed to steal when it rains, and is such a provision compatible with the principle of stealing if it doesn't rain and nobody steals anything then?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u109	Mr. Senator, well, they're known in so-called logic. Disloyal eristic grips like the question: did you stop beating your wife? It doesn't matter what you say, because any answer will be against you. And that's the kind of question you're asking. Sentence... What's the point of speculation? What's the point of speculation: what if...? There's a sentence, there's a sentence, there's a sentence, there's three judges... Anyway, each of them was chosen separately. And each of these three judges has the beginning of their term of office laid down in the Seym Resolution. It was a new decision. And let me remind you, because of course I don't want to... Because I have respect for the Constitutional Court, which acted in the normal way, so to speak, the mode when it acted. But for example. I don't necessarily have that sentence... It might as well be that five judges could be regarded as properly elected. But the Court has determined, as it has determined. Why? Let me remind you that they said anyway: well, that's how we can set it up and two years ahead. There were arguments. Well, no. And I would like to remind Senator Ambrozik that there was a situation at the time, that there were indeed temporary adjustments as to when the terms of office were over and when it would be possible to select individual judges. And there were fears that even those two judges... that their term of office might pass during this term of office of the Sejm. But one way or another, Please take a look at the Act on the deadlines for submitting candidates in this term of office. And we were wondering if it was a good thing to choose the law before the end of the term of office. It was about pointing out to the new Sejm candidates who would be elected in this term of office. That was the problem at the time, because it happened on time. The Court did not look at the bill, the fact that these candidates had to be submitted, but considered that if the term of office of the judge ends in a given term of office of the Sejm, then this Sejm has... As we agreed, we meant that... we were considering the burden of the Court at the time, because two... The Court generally adjudicates on Fridays. This is a third of the Court. At the time, the Court was very efficient at work and it was a matter of not having a break. It was kind of a dilemma. The Court has established a new quality regardless of the law, which I stress once again, please check it out and have prepared properly... I don't remember exactly. Anyway, this is a situation... The Court has created a new principle with which, I stress, no one has discussed. How can we talk about some kind of collective responsibility in this situation? The court found these judges... No one's saying that they're chosen for these... I mean, you know who's chosen where. We know who the judges are expecting to take their vows, and who thought they weren't the judges. They've ruled the Court's ruling and the case is closed. There is a matter of 3 judges who are properly elected. Once again, there's no such thing as throwing it all together. Of course, it was the deadlines that conditionalized the submission of candidates. It's clear. It is known when and when the next session of the Sejm was expected. These were some estimates that were, of course, carried out at the time. You can't say it was done in complete detachment... A judgment is a judgment. Just, no discussion. It concerns specific judges who should rule after the President has taken their oath, as they have so far been waiting for. This publication would allow the situation to be normalized in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u110	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll say one sentence. Counselor, according to your reasoning, you could choose the Seym and the Senate immediately for two terms. All you have to do is extend the electoral calendar properly for the next term. I don't agree with you. Really. [[But there are deadlines for selecting candidates. That's what the bill says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u112	I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Let's do it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, but I'd like to ask you a question. This is the seventh law improving the Constitutional Tribunal. Seven o'clock. [[And not the last.]] Please... if it's not the last one, it's not up to the senator. [[Oh, no, no.]] The question is, I think, who else needs to be addressed. I would therefore like to ask you how the Court works after the six laws have been improved. Is it more efficient or less efficient? If you remember, maybe you can give us some approximate data.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u114	We remember perfectly, because the committee which I had the honour of chairing by almost 2 terms of office has realized, or actually recognized more than 100 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. There's been a lot of catching up. It was Marshal Borusewicz who was the initiator in the sixth term, I was the rapporteur, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and then we began to execute the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. There was a collapse because more than 120 sentences were waiting to be executed. We as Senate have filled this gap, which has been widely noticed, approved by many constitutionalists who have doubted, I have been at such conferences. The purpose of the Senate's existence. It was said that the Senate often actually duplicates what the Sejm is doing, so... And this activity, this form of activity of the Senate was so important that many prominent constitutionalists changed their mind and thought that it was in this area that the Senate was very, very necessary and plays a very important role. At that time, it was an average of 60 to 80 sentences, not counting legal questions, not including provisions, etc. And now? So we see, these are completely individual situations. And I remember it was, among other things. My pet, Mr.Peterowicz, said that they were actually doing nothing, and that only now, if there is such a Court, it will be work. Well, look at the numbers. Right now it's, I don't know, 15%. , a maximum of 20% of what was in the previous term of the Court. So that this is the Court's activity after these excellent 7 steps, which were caused by specific situations: aha, this judge is missing here, that's where we make 13 judges, etc. Well, how can you do 13 if the full lineup was 12 then and 3 was... [[There's 15 in the Constitution.]] Yes, there are 15 judges in the Constitution, 12 and 3 were elected, only expected to take a vow. Why are the members of the Court responsible for this judgment or those elected judges who later elected the Sejm? I mean, why are they guilty? What does this have to do with the Court's ruling? The Court's ruling was simply ignored. It was thought that if it wasn't published, it would be settled, and it would survive, and we'd get to the bottom of it. Well, we didn't get on the agenda, the Venice Commission didn't get over it, and the European Commission didn't get over it, and I'm convinced of it, because the constitution is clear here, and I've talked about it many times.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u115	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u116	Senator Minority Rapporteur, I will ask you the same question that I have asked you the rapporteur of the majority. Can the proposed law be a precedent, a reference point to a similar action in the future? I mean. The executive authority considers that the sentence is not a judgment, it is a decision, and, on the basis of this law, it goes on, i.e. it thinks that everything is okay, because there is precedent. In law aside from law In Polish law, of course, less The issue of precedents is also important. Do you not therefore believe that it is necessary to introduce a sanction for not publishing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in order to avoid such a situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u117	Well, I think ignoring such an important constitutional provision should be I'll tell you what. In effect, it's quite serious. That doesn't give me the slightest doubt. Well, he can't... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. He can't... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Please...]] Keep it down. Yes. [[Pick up and tell them you're in session.]] [[It's the wife. Pick up.]] No, I'm not answering anymore. [[That's the wife?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[If you're a wife, answer it.]] No. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Counselor, Senator Piesiewicz. [[Oh, yeah.]] So it can't be... Of course we're creating an anti-constitutional precedent. We hereby approve It's true, isn't it? The possibility to assess the violation of the Constitution. Thus, contrary to the provision on the finality of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the obligation to publish without delay, we make a statutory exception, giving an undefined person or body the right that he will judge whether it is a judgment or whether it is a decision. Once again, I would like to stress that the decision is synonymous with recognition. Decision As we've heard here A dispute of competence. But judgment or resolution is a form of decision. It can't be. Once again, I stress the judgment of the court, that is, it cannot be that I issue the decision in the form of a ruling. I'm giving them away in the form of a judgment. He'll settle himself in the form of a judgment. There's no other way. Not only did he call it a judgment, but he passed a judgment, he declared it on behalf of the Republic of Poland. Not much, the judges, dissatisfied with this judgment, gave separate sentences, votum separatum. On what? From the verdict, not from the decision of any. Because in the event of a decision which is not a judgment, there is no votum separatum. So what are we talking about? We're trying some combination. alpine to carry out It's true, isn't it? And show that we publish the judgment and do not publish it at the same time. Well, that can't be right. Again, I'm saying there's no... In no comment will we find the kind of opportunities that the Sejm presents to us today, so to speak. That's not gonna happen. The matter is clear and obvious. It's still possible... Mr. Marshal, back to the question of whether we could... I don't know, it's said immediately. This is an indefinite term. Maybe give 3 days, maybe 7 days, so that the term "immediately" is not too much, so to speak, interpreted, because only here is the question of the word "immediation." Well, I guess we have no doubt that this period, even if it were published today, is hard to call it immediate. But that's a legal term. Perhaps it is such an important issue that it should be timed. To conclude the question of sanctions... Well, we know that the Court of State doesn't actually work. I remember how to sleep from that podium. First President of the Supreme Court Stanisław Dąbrowski, a well-known figure, an iconic figure of the justice system, after all, a very well-deserved activist... I organized a 15-year constitution here in this room. And there was an evaluation... And there's this article, and it's still in my office... And you were talking about the fact that the constitution was absolutely successful and that the only thing that we failed was the Court of State. That is why I am talking about this, because since the Court of State is de facto not effective in this constitutional order, I think it would be wrong to impose sanctions, criminal sanctions. It wouldn't be crazy to introduce them, because it would be, so to speak, a real threat. If someone just wants to ignore it The publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is a very important issue often for millions of people. Well, it's a liability. It is not enough that the prosecution needs to start proceedings immediately, and it is known that the Court of State... whether political responsibility unfortunately in our reality, our constitution, which, as I said, has proven itself in this regard, unfortunately is not real, is not real.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u118	I don't see anyone else willing to ask a question. [[I volunteered.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u119	I have a question. Senator Ziientarski, too. Do you share such an opinion that the creators of this project, which, after all, does not bear the least criticism in terms of constitutionality, dare the House, which is to watch over constitutionality, among others. rules, present such a project... that they do so because they are sure that the Court in today's composition and on the basis of the current rules and under the current conditions will simply not question it? Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u120	Well, we know that the Court has been incapacitated. There are no judges who should be, three, so to speak, suspended. Well, I already told you that your president was elected, but not by a majority, which means there is no actual resolution. Here it's said that 13 needed, and there was no ordinary majority here. So what's there to talk about... That, of course... That is why this is a fundamental issue, namely the publication of judgments of the Court with normal consequences. But this, of course, is another Court, another composition of the Constitutional Tribunal... It's obvious. [[Of course.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u121	Senator Zdrojewska and then Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u122	Thank you very much. I have a question. Also, about that break you asked Senator Florek for. Because first of all, we read that perhaps any moment before Hungary the procedure with the article will be initiated. 7, secondly, Professor Gersdorf has already convened a meeting of the National Judicial Council and has set a deadline. Therefore, the question is that, so to speak, some of the twines that the designers of these laws, amendments and amendments are doing here, because... [[That's not the bill.]] [[Voice from the room: That's not it.]] I know it's not that, but, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I'm talking about a break. Maybe we should take a break. In the meantime, applicants will consider whether they want to change these laws in some other way so that they are constitutional. In connection with the Article procedure. 7 against Hungary... The European Union, I do not know how to define it. It's tightening the course. And therefore, these other laws, which I draw attention to... Some of the paragraphs will no longer be necessary, about those who perform duties or something, because Mrs Gersdorf is calling a meeting. Think about it, Mr. Marshal, if it's not worth taking a break after all. You can invite Mrs Przyłębska here on Monday or Tuesday, invite all the bodies concerned, invite the representatives of the Supreme Court and once again consider, together with the opposition and in agreement, whether or not to change it so that it is a final and lawful change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u123	Is that a question for me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Is that a question for me?]] [[Yes. Does the senator share that opinion?]] I share your opinion, and you're the marshal who decides. [[I can answer that. I would very much like it to be done in harmony, Senator. I would love to, and I wish we could talk in agreement. Thank you very much.]] From a formal legal point of view... [[President Przyłębska should join us.]] [[Monday and...]] That depends on your marshal who he invites to the hearing. [[Everyone's welcome.]] Everyone's welcome. That's what the marshal says. So... [[Request for a recess.]] Coming back here... This applies to a law that I think will no longer be worked by us today, discussed. What can we do? The laws have been passed. We can only reject them or amend them. That's what most people will decide. At the moment, there is a proposal to accept without amendments, so that... there are indeed certain decisions whether the changes will be obsolete. [[Exactly. I mean, we shouldn't make legislative twine like this anymore.]] And yes, and so the minority claims rejection. This would give the Sejm the opportunity to return to the preparation of major steps in which the European Commission's recommendations would actually be implemented. [[Maybe it'll work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u124	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To some extent, the senator just touched it. I have a question for both senators. Do you not think that, at the moment, at the time of the hearing, this is a question for both gentlemen of the Constitutional Tribunal, and when considering the next items should be the representatives of the Supreme Court? That's my question for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u126	Of course I do. The marshal said we'd invite them. Yes? [[Voice from the hall: Is that what he said?]] That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u127	Mr Senator, Mr Vice-President of the Legislative Commission, with an invitation, it is so that if it is issued... I'm sorry I'm talking about this with details. The invitation shall relate to the item on the agenda and the item on the agenda shall relate to a specific printing. I'm sure the president didn't come because she just made that decision. But it's certainly not that she didn't come because she didn't know what was going to happen here and what point she was going to consider. In the invitation there was information that this would be a point about a given seym print, a given senate printing. Right? [[I just asked the senator if you didn't think that since we're running this point, the president should be here.]] Mr. Marshal... At committee meetings, the committee invites, but at Senate level, you are already a marshal. Do you, Marshal Karczewski, or does the Marshal in charge decide... [[Mr. Marshal Karczewski said he'd invited you.]] He said he invited... [[That's what he said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u128	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u129	I have a question for Senator Zientarski. Mr. Senator, you spoke about the Constitutional Court's relationship with the Senate in the context of the implementation of the provisions. It's an important job. As you said, the constitutionalists, who had doubts, became convinced that the higher chamber of parliament, the Senate, was needed. How do you view this term of office, in which we are practically not doing everything that concerns the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, and in which, practically and efficiently, the parliamentary majority approves what comes from the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u130	Well, I've already told you many times, not today, but on the occasion of other laws, that we're cutting the branch we're sitting on. Yes, of course, because at a time when most laws go without amendments, without a proper debate, without the right time, we actually show the unnecessaryness of our House. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u131	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u132	To the senator of the minority rapporteur. I have a bill in front of me. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 We have this provision that the Court's judgments and the Court's decisions taken in violation of... I'm not gonna talk about that violation. In any case, in the article. 19 are the words of the Court and the judgment of the Court. In the amendment of the law, we have only a decision. The word "judgments" has been omitted, and we have only "decisions." And the question to the rapporteur: does that change anything then? Because as far as the settlement is concerned, you have already said, in what form can these decisions be? The decision must end with something, that is, a judgment or some sort of... And a judgment is, for example, a judgment. Judgment. It has to end with something. Therefore, I have a question as to whether this bill, this change, brings anything. That question would probably be for Mrs. Julia Przyłębska... I think we're... we're just trying to get our deliberations to be held from one hour to the next. So, in fact, it's hard to blame the president. It is not known whether it is in Warsaw; maybe it is in Poznan [[Voice from the room: Berlin.]] That's the kind of thing you agree on. I think it's time by Monday that the marshal arranges it so that the president can answer our questions. That is why I will call again for this break and for the invitation of those mentioned. And the question to Mr. Zientarski, as I said, is whether leaving the word "judgment" changes anything. In my opinion, it's practically the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u133	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u134	I'm answering the question. If we are to invoke by law the same provisions as in the Constitution that a judgment should be published immediately, then the law is completely redundant, because it is only a repetition. Except there's no repetition here. There is also a comment, an opinion, because to me this is an opinion, applicants, that we are dealing with 3 judgments, which are not judgments, but decisions, and therefore cannot be legally effective. Well, that's... I don't know what that is. [[Voice from the room: But they can be published.]] I don't know what it is, because it's not... This is a decision in form, I don't know what... Well, it's just against the principle of finality and against the absolute obligation to publish. That's it. That's it. You can't say any more.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u135	I don't see any more questions... Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u136	The justification of the authors of the draft law is that this law is intended to stabilise the legal system and strengthen the institutional position of the Court. These are very interesting wordings. I therefore ask this question: who has destabilised the legal system and who has weakened the position of the Constitutional Tribunal, and how? [[Exactly.]] It is clear to me that if such wording is used, such conclusions are drawn. The Court's position has been weakened and the legal system destabilised. Who and how did this happen, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u137	Well, since 2,5 years is the absolute majority of Law and Justice in the Seym and the absolute majority in the Senate, almost 2/3. And the answer is one. Even 7 set isn't enough to rebuild the prestige. [[It's sad.]] No law, if it is contrary to the Constitution, will raise the prestige of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am no longer talking about the failure of this body, the lack of its activity, the fact that... Let's remember: after all, many constitutional complaints or requests to examine its compatibility with the Constitution have been withdrawn. They've been withdrawn, which is practically unprecedented. Why did this happen? Because it just lacks confidence in this organ. And once again, this is not an organ to accept, it is just an organ that censors the parliamentary majority. Or power. This is an organ that, due to its physical position, is with this authority, so to speak, conflicted, in a systemic sense. So that addiction... The cause of this situation is, of course, on the side of the parliamentary majority. And unfortunately, today's bill is still going in an absolutely wrong direction. Well, the parliamentary majority is still just going through. He thinks maybe time will do something. Well, it's been two and a half years, and it turns out it's the other way around. After all, we are clearly threatened by sanctions, not only political ones, but also, as I hear, financial ones, which would be the worst situation, such an ad hoc one. Well, you can't underestimate that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u138	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u139	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I will go back to what I asked your rapporteur for the majority. I would like to hear from you the evaluation, because you have been debating for a long time during the committee meeting. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Mr Senator spoke of a good signal sent to public space, especially to the European Commission, the Venice Commission. Well, it's kind of like a good change. The good change in Poland is well-known, and some are associated with what we see. How do you feel about that good signal? Does he even have a chance to change the look of the European Commission, the Venice Commission? Well, of course, as Poles, we would like the relations of the Venice Commission and the Polish government to be on an agreement basis. But can what is happening here be written into the canon of these very good changes that we see in the country, or will it actually be a good signal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u140	I already told you, and I'm going to repeat now that Polish lawyers... I have no contact with the Venice Commission, but the lawyers who come here have different meetings in their program, recently with the first president of the Supreme Court. After all, the President refers, also on the occasion of this law, to her commentary on this so-called. The White Paper, which she has strongly criticised, shows that these are not the right steps to restore the rule of law. Well, I can tell you about the Polish lawyers, the constitutionalists I'm contacting because I'm a member of the constitutionalist association. They just think it's a joke, 'cause calling something that's supposed to make things better, unconstitutional... It's just words are missing. [[That's a good change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u141	Well, maybe if the words are missing, we'll finish the questions. [[Yeah, maybe.]] Can we make an appointment at the end of the question? [[Can I ask you one more question?]] Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Here we raised this issue, all the time talking about the fact that the act is an accident, that it is an attempt to resolve these mistakes made when the bill was passed more than 2 years ago. Well, these are the attempts to get out of this trouble that PiS has assembled, which we're all unfortunately victims of. But isn't this bill, according to your senator, going to have negative consequences in the future? Because she's talking about a certain practice of deciding on the legality or legality of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Isn't that just gonna cause this situation to be called into question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u143	Of course, that creates a dangerous precedent. That's what you asked Marshal Borusewicz. Unfortunately, I believe that this will also be assessed by the Venice Commission and the European Commission. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission is addressing us in good faith. He's changed, so to speak, the style of practicing politics. And very well. Minister Chaputowicz is talking, and they're hoping something good will come out of it, and they're waiting, but if they get something like this, then... It looks like somebody just mocked them. Well, that's how I feel about it. How else? How do you justify that? After all, it is clearly stated that this concerns this law and those two we will discuss on Monday. It is clear to me that the internal and external effects will be very negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u144	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u145	I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority. May I? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator rapporteur, has there been a destabilization of the legal system and a weakening of the position of the Constitutional Tribunal over the last two years? Well, I return to the justification in which it is said that this new law is intended to stabilise the legal system and strengthen the constitutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. Do you think there's been a destabilization of the legal system... [[Weaknesses.]] ...that there has been a weakening of the position of the Court and that this law is therefore needed? And does it strengthen?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u146	Mr. Marshal, the Constitutional Tribunal is functioning very well. She's under the leadership of Julia Przyłębska. We had the opportunity to hear the report on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. The Court functions very well in the legal sphere, in the organisational sphere, in the statutory sphere. But as far as the public sphere is concerned, the political sphere, of course, we need to sort out what has just been corrupted since the introduction of the article. 137 to the Act of 25 June 2015, which led to the launch of these mechanisms, which had already been discussed here, the launch of discussions, disputes, disputes concerning precisely what is the relationship between legal acts, between the Constitution and the ordinary law. And all of this, this public activity has caused damage. So I repeat: with regard to the functioning of the Court, it works very well, despite what we have heard here, that less is announced... that less is published... no, that there is less case law. I don't have the exact statistics in front of me. So that everything's working out okay here. But, as I said, in a kind of political, publicistic sphere, including an external message for the last 2 years, that is, in the period that began in autumn 2015, we should of course have such signals... It will certainly be the adoption of this bill that we are working on today. It is a signal that everything will go in that direction, so that this situation will also have a positive effect in this external dimension, in this external layer. This is very necessary. Each institution needs this very much, precisely this external evaluation. All the more so the Constitutional Court, which is a body, a constitutional institution. And at this point, of course, we should not face such accusations that something has been done in the past that would undermine the authority of the Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u147	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u148	Does the Senator rapporteur believe that the wording contained in the explanatory memorandum of the law concerning the stabilisation of the legal system and the strengthening of the institutional position of the Court, that this law is intended to serve this purpose, that is, the publication? Is this a publicist? This is, Mr. Senator... [[Well, tell me...]] It's a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u149	Well, but tell me... Well, the Court's position... Will any of these rulings of the Court cause... So that, for sure, when it comes to what I said earlier, this is a very, very important dimension. As regards the position of the body, this law refers to the publication of decisions rather than judgments. So here you are... So it's going to be publications with these reservations that these decisions were filed in violation of the Law of June 25 or, the next one, the Law of July 22nd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u150	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u151	Mr. Senator, I don't want to bother you anymore, but... [[Are you withdrawing the question?]] No... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Which one? All the questions I asked are valid because most of the questions I didn't get were answered. [[How about in writing?]] The senator will not be obliged to answer in writing, but the minister can answer. The explanatory memorandum states that this law stabilises the legal system and strengthens the institutional position of the Court. What's that? Is this a publicist, or is this the reality described in the explanatory statement? And yet you say that the Court works better and more efficiently, Senator. You know the difference in the number of judgments. That is why it is necessary for the President of Przyłębska to be here, the point being that she should answer this question, which the senator, I understand, does not want or cannot answer. This bill strengthens? Doesn't it strengthen? Stabilizes? It's destabilizing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u152	Mr. Marshal, I've answered that question several times, and you want me to repeat the answers. You ask a different question, and I'm supposed to answer the same content I've presented before. Mr. Marshal, you're asking obvious questions. After all, it is obvious that this law strengthens the constitutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal, strengthens both in terms of the political position and in terms of the... It strengthens at the same time... Well, it's hard to decide about these spheres... I tried to tell you something I hadn't told you before, it is that, of course, in the external sphere this image has been undermined and it is very good that, through a law of the type that we are now considering, a law aimed at promoting the settlement, the 3rd ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2016. Of course, it strengthens the position of the body, because these decisions that have not been promoted, and about which there has been a huge debate in the public sphere, in the international sphere with various institutions... At this point, we're sending a signal that we're trying to get this situation straightened out. Of course, one is very connected with the other: on the one hand it is creating a positive atmosphere around the Constitutional Court, and on the other it is promoting these 3 resolutions. In the strict sphere a legal resolution, i.e. a decision, concerning legal standards which are no longer in the legal order, because the Act of 22 July abolished the Act of 25 June 2015 and the Act we are currently working on abolished the Act of 22 July... In such a situation, Mr. Marshal, in the legal sphere of these standards simply does not exist. And just because we will adopt this law today, it will not change the system of law in Poland. It's not going to change, because it's just about standards that aren't there, the vacuum, like I said before. Therefore, in this sense, in a legal sense it will not affect the legal system in Poland, but it will create a good atmosphere around the Constitutional Court, a good atmosphere which is a prerequisite for institutions to work well. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Each institution concerns this sine qua non condition that a good atmosphere must be around it. And because, even though it doesn't enrich the legal system, it concerns standards that, as I said, are no longer in the legal system, but we send a signal, we create a good atmosphere. That's it. And that's what I wanted to tell the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u153	Thank you. Senator Alexander Pociej, and then Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u154	Mr. Senator, your last statement inspired me, especially what you said about creating this better climate and better reception. Only in that case, if the senator were to comment on what our legislator wrote... We have an art. 2 of this bill. Art. 2 provides that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall manage the publication in the relevant Official Journal of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal issued in breach of the provisions of that Law and of that Act within 7 days of the date of entry into force of the Act in question. First, I would like to ask why this standard suddenly appears, that it is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal who manages it. After all, it is quite clear that our legislator indicates And I don't think there's any discrepancy about that. The Court's rulings, in accordance with the Constitution, are to be declared. And I do not understand suddenly putting this decision under the authority of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in the construction of this law. What's that for? This is a bill that, if it stays... [[Question, Mr. Senator. That's more like it.]] That's my question... [[More succinctly, please.]] What's it for... Excuse me, I'm almost done. What's this art for? 2, since it is clear from the law that if the legislative path concerning a law is completed, the wording of those provisions makes it necessary to publish it? And our legislator. - and I would like Mr President to comment on the comments made at the end of the third and at the beginning of the fourth side of our opinion. It explicitly states that this provision is not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u155	Okay, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much, because you've been asking a question for a long time. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u156	Senator rapporteur, don't mind me asking you a question. I want to get to the bottom of this and figure out what's going on. There's an ex nihilo nihil rule, which is nothing. If you say that these judgments are different, but for me these are judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal no longer valid, then why publish them? Just to make amends to the European Commission's comments? Why publish them? So what's the point of this bill? Or just propaganda? We're investigating the bill. What's the point of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u157	Good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Do any of you have another question for the senator? [[I'd like to see Senator Zientarski.]] There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u158	Mr. Marshal, the rulings, the three decisions that are mentioned in the submission we are working on, have been taken. They weren't promulgated, but they happened. These decisions, or decisions, they took place, and then they were not promulgated. But it's not in circulation... [[They don't apply.]] Yeah, but that was the case, and there are no legal rules to which these decisions relate. These legal standards in circulation are not in the system. There's a vacuum when it comes to these legal standards. The same way you could look at the whole cycle. The fact that the legal rules which do not concern the decision, e.g. Court case law... That doesn't mean that this ruling doesn't remain in the system. It remains. And it's the same here. This decision is because it was simply accepted, only that it concerns standards that no longer apply in the system of law. And as far as Senator Pociej's question is concerned, it is difficult for me to see now, because, as I said, we did not debate this legal opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which was delivered to us at the committee meeting. You're asking about the art. 19... [[No, I was asking about the art. 2.]] Oh, about the article. 2. If you... [[I was asking about the art. 2 in connection with the thesis by the legislator that he is not needed here at all. And so the legislator concludes: In fact, the reasons for the bill are very questionable.]] We didn't discuss that. It is difficult for me now to come up with some answers because there was no discussion at the committee meeting on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u159	Thank you very much. Yes? [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] To the senator... [[No.]] [[To the senator of the minority rapporteur.]] Good. Do any of you still have a question for the Senator of the majority? [[I'll be right there. First to see the minority senator.]] But you can ask that question now, Mr. Marshal. [[I have to think about it, Mrs. Marshal.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u160	Mr. Senator, it's very possible that when I asked you a question, you might not have listened, so I'd like to repeat it. There's art. 2 which states that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in the field of only and exclusively this law manages the advert in the respective Official Journal of the Laws. We have our legislator's opinion, which states that it should be noted that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has already issued an order on the publication of judgments in cases, these are the three cases in question. And what does that involve? At a time when we have the continuity of the bodies of the Constitutional Tribunal, the personal change in the position of President does not change anything in this context. If, therefore, it is accepted that the order to declare a decision of the Constitutional Tribunal is merely a technical act, i.e. the start of the process of transmission of the relevant document from the authority responsible for issuing the Official Journal, and fulfils only a service role in relation to the order at constitutional level to publish the decisions of the Court without delay, then also the provision of Article. 2 can be considered unnecessary, which further confirms the above-mentioned argument that the ratio legis as set out in the explanatory memorandum of this law is questionable. My question here is: if we have a duty to print judgments, what could it be for? That's one thing. Secondly, how do you view a provision that suddenly gives the President of the Constitutional Tribunal the option of ordering printing, but only in respect of one law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u161	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. The question is for Senator Zientarski, too, right? [[Yeah, and the senator, too.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u162	In fact, it is a question to the Members of the applicants, but since there are no Members of the applicants, and the senator is an experienced lawyer, I will address the senator. I'm talking about the Legal Bureau's opinion. I will refer to the passage: first of all, it is important to point out that the amendment is to be subject to a provision which has been fully implemented and, in this sense, no longer has legal effect from the point of view of the principles of correct legislation. I stress this: the principles of correct legislation. Giving him a new sound is therefore a missed procedure. That's part of the opinion. Therefore, Mr. Senator, I have this question: does this bill strengthen, stabilize, or is it missing? We would now have to decide what the meaning of this law is at all. Well, from this opinion it is clear that when it comes to the principles of correct legislation, it is a missed procedure. I'd like you to comment on whether it strengthens, stabilizes, or if it's a missed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u163	Are there any questions for Senator Zientarski? Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u164	Mr. Senator, let me ask you a question that I asked the senator most of: what is the ratio of legis of this bill? It follows from the justification of this law, in general from this law, that these 3 judgments to be published are not legally available. If they don't exist, if they don't function in the legal system because they don't exist, then what's the ratio legis of publishing something that doesn't exist? Well, I'm sorry, but it conflicts with my simple logic. If there's nothing, no one should be doing it. You have to take care of what's real.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u166	The first question, Senator Pociej, is actually related to the Marshal's question, because both questions concerned what art is for. 2. Well, of course, and art. 1, and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 2... all this amendment is not only completely redundant, but also, of course, anti-constitutional and totally missed. And it doesn't just strengthen, but I'll remind you one more time. It causes precedent, such precedent that it undermines the finality of the Court's judgments and the immediateness of the obligation to publish immediately after the President's order. And, as was mentioned in Senator Pociej's question, the President issued such an order, because, as I say, the ball was on the side of the Council of Ministers' office, which is responsible for publishing and should publish without any discussion. Now, back to your Marshal's question, why... Of course it's logical that if there's nothing to publish, then it doesn't publish, or if there's no legal matter, then there's no need to make a bill. Yes? Well, it's just not. The publication has legal implications. This judgment concerning the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal has already been mentioned here. After all, these judges have been chosen in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling correctly and should sit in the Court after they have received their pledge, which he did not do, not knowing why, Mr President. But today we're not judging the President, we're judging the bill. So that's the situation. So it's not like... And that's why there are security measures, isn't it? But we're going to write here that it's not a judgment, so it doesn't have any effect, and so on, because... of course, I don't know if it's naivety. I don't know how to justify that... The European Commission will buy that this is a publication for publication, that it is called that it has been published and has not actually been published? Well, the publication has legal implications. And no one in this room needs to be convinced of that. Therefore, it is difficult to determine what the ratio legis really is here. Did... Because you can assume that it's either to show that we have good will... to show our own electorate that you're welcome, we're doing... And the Union? Well, she can't take it, can she? Then she won't accept... Well, there you go, and we wanted to... Maybe that's it. I don't know what's going on. Anyway, there's no rational... ratio legis, there's no rational justification. There is absolutely no rational justification. And, as I say, there can be many variants. In any event, it cannot be that the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is ineffective, all the more so because it was the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, the body essential to the functioning of the dimension... of the rule of law at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u167	Senator Grażyna Shark. [[Thank you very much...]] Which one of you gentlemen? [[The Senator's voice was first.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. On the basis of what provisions implementing the law on organisation and procedure before the Court, Senator, did you state that these provisions are anti-constitutional? That's exactly what I'm quoting. Because I understand that rules can be unconstitutional or contradictory, but anti-constitutional? What did the senator mean? And what are the rules? And second question. Can you remind the senator who changed the time limit for the selection of the judges of the Court? And on what legal basis was it then?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u169	Do you also have a question for Senator Ziientarski? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u170	I also hope that the senator will redirect this question to the Minister. Mr. Senator, since you're a constitutionalist, I'd like to ask if there's any justification... Is it possible to include in the explanatory memorandum... You have already said a lot here about the reasons that we have received in hand to clarify the introduction of these provisions introducing the procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. Could there be a statement in the explanatory memorandum on the improvement of Poland's situation in the dispute with the European Commission? This is the first case. And two. Do you think that these undisclosed judgments of the Court referred to here, in this law, these 3 judgments of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November 2016... Is this an official offence, since Prime Minister Szydło refused... [[Publications.]] ...the publication of these judgments, or now, when this publication is made by Prime Minister Morawiecki, it is also... How does that fit into the law? 'Cause it just doesn't add up. Then it was illegal, and now, after the Prime Minister's change, it's legal? I don't get it very much, so I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u171	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? There you go. [[No, I'm sorry, I'm here to see the Senator of the majority.]] No? All right. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u172	I'm answering Senator Gadawa's question. Why anti-constitutional? I'll remind you of the article. 8, Art. 87 Constitutions and Art. 190, which clearly states that judgments are final and subject to immediate publication. The Constitution is the highest legal act, the legal system and the provisions of the Constitution shall apply directly. This is where these provisions should be applied directly. There is absolutely no need for any other law here, since it is an obligation to apply it directly. This issue of publication is settled, so to speak, in the Constitution itself, is governed by the Constitution unambiguously, without any doubt, there is no discrepancy in doctrine here. This can be checked in all comments. And that's why it's anti-constitutional. It can't be like this... There is no authority other than the Court itself which could assess the judgment determining the matters at issue. Only the Constitutional Tribunal. And once again, these judgments are final. So that maybe you'd have to think about, I don't know, issues related to the organisation of the Court, about the fact that maybe it's the Supreme Court... I don't know. In accordance with the current constitution that binds us, the Constitutional Tribunal also has problems with the Constitutional Tribunal. The matter here is clear, unambiguous, final. And all the lawyers' opinions... I do not know the opinions, which, together with the opinion of our Legal Office They would have treated this position differently. As for those two judges of the Constitutional Court, I don't remember that, I just... Once again, I would like to emphasise. We are not talking about these two judges because we are not discussing the Court's judgment. That's it. The case is closed, you like the word. 2 Judges The Court has been chosen. Once again, I would like to emphasise. 5 were not selected at the same time. Everyone was chosen individually with the term... [[Based on the others...]] It doesn't matter. ...the beginning of the term of office, these three. That's why we're not discussing these two. It is simply the judgment of the Court of Justice that is indisputable and that is why these 3 Judges are judges chosen correctly in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Now, here's the question of a possible civil servant crime. You can think about it. Well, it's certainly a violation of the constitution. This is a measure relating to liability before the Court of State. Is this official activity? Well, there may be doubts as to whether this is a political decision. Yes? Because a plaintiff doesn't do that. In any event, it is certainly a decision contrary to the constitution that every body in a law-abiding state should apply, so to speak, without question, rather than assigning itself powers which it does not possess. Because it's not the Council of Ministers or the office of the Council of Ministers that has the right to judge whether it's a judgment, is it? If it's a sentence... There are even, as I said, 2 separate sentences, etc. That's not what... He doesn't have that kind of competence. And it's simple. You'd think about it, but I'm categorically unable to say it. Undoubtedly the constitutional delicacy is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u173	Thank you. Senator Gazweda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I understand that the senator would like to run away from the question I have asked, and he himself does not fully understand the definition of anti-constitutionality, he understands the unconstitutionality. But it's a matter of judgment. But I'd like to come back again... [[But these are synonyms. The anti-constitutionality contradicts the constitutionality...]] But once again, Mr Senator, I would like to return to the fundamental question of the rapporteur. Which of the provisions implementing the law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal do you consider to be non-constitutional provisions? That's the first question. And the other. I am not asking you how you believe three candidates were elected as judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the other two candidates. I ask you once again who has changed the time limit for the selection of the judges of the Court. If the senator was kind enough to remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u175	But I'm not gonna tell you this because I don't remember it. Once again, the problem has been resolved by the Court's ruling and the case is closed. Those two over there, to feel like judges, don't... And they don't expect to take their vows. So it's clear here. Sir, if we have any comments in the bill on a judgment that is final and subject to unconditional publication... Here we're dealing with some sort of beletrytics, making a ruling out of a judgment that's against the law, etc. It seems obvious to everyone that this is contrary to the principle of the finality of decisions and compulsory publication.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u176	Thank you very much. Any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. To the Senator of the majority or to Senator Ziientarski? [[To the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority.]] Good. I understand there are no more questions for you, Senator, so... [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[They'll be here, they'll be here.]] All right. If they are, you will ask them. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u177	Mr. Senator, I understand the difference between judgment and decision. So tell me... Mr. Senator, there's a difference. If I am wrong, please tell me that there are legal sanctions for failure to publish the judgment, for failure to publish the judgment by the government, and for failure to publish the ruling, there are no sanctions. Yes? Is that what this juggling is all about, Mr. Senator? I'm trying to figure out what's going on. Why not write a judgment... Those sentences are gone. And the situation would be simple.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u178	Well, Mr. Marshal, you ask, and I answer, at least I try to answer... [[Thank you very much, sir. I believe that.]] Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't want to bring up too often the same words I gave earlier. I'd like to add something new, enrich my answers, but it's not always that easy. The Lord speaks of the difference between the judgment of the Court, that is, we still have provisions. and the Court's ruling. Well, you know, the easiest thing would be to pronounce a sentence, as it is. In fact, it's literally written... The basic question that I think we're going around all the time. I don't say it with any regret or subtext. It concerns whether the formal aspect had been the deliberations of the Constitutional Tribunal in a situation where the ordinary law on which, according to the article. 197 constitutions should be invoked... This question is whether the deliberations of the Court of Justice in a situation where the minimum judicial composition is not guaranteed, of which the ordinary law states that the minimum is 13 Judges, and there are 12 Judges... Are these, in formal terms, the deliberations of the Court, or is the Court sitting at that time? And that's the question that each of us should answer. The same can be asked, of course, if. any other institution required for the validity of the deliberations Like, for example, In the Senate, it's 50%. plus 1, same in the Seym The usual majority, the qualified majority... Whether resolutions or all positions which are adopted in a situation where the institution or when the ongoing deliberations do not comply with those requirements which result from the applicable law, i.e. at that time and in the Constitution, and in the act is simply a requirement to be observed... And you know, that's when the question arose as to whether it was possible to publish, promote the judgment of the Court in a situation where the Court was sitting in a irregular composition. And, you know, it's a question, it's certainly a problem for lawyers, and you, and I, and the lawyers of the practitioners, the lawyers who are here, have met with a wealth of literature on this subject. There is a very rich literature about the situation that arose then. The posts are different, there is no one position, one school that would interpret in one way the situation that was then created. A very difficult situation has arisen and we want to get out of it. That's what you've been calling for. That's exactly where you're headed. Well, here's the proposal we got from the Sejm. Mrs. Senator... I'm sorry, I wanted to run the meeting... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Commission.]] Yeah, the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u179	Mr. Marshal wants to ask... [[Yeah, I want to ask.]] So the next question... [[If you don't mind...]] Other or more on this issue? [[Yeah, yeah, about that.]] You're welcome, but it's short.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u180	Mr. Senator, shouldn't this kind of legal issue be settled by the Constitutional Tribunal and we shouldn't be making a bill that's quite obnoxious and weird?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u181	But it was the Court that decided the Court Act. And this is a situation that... Well, I'm sure Senator Zientarski will agree that this was the first such situation when the Court assessed the records that concern him. The Court has checked the records relating to him himself. But, regardless of how we evaluate it, the Court, since it judged it, could judge it in its statutory composition. In the meantime, the Court did not judge it in its statutory composition, as the statutory composition was a minimum of 13 judges and was sitting in the composition of 12 judges. And no matter how much Senator Pociej recalled, that was the situation... Well, we have the letter of the law, we read the letter of the law, and we don't go into these external situations at this point. Why should we enter it? It's just a record, Dura lex, sed lex.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, are you still on the subject? [[Yeah, about that.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u183	Because I'm talking about what you're questioning and what's the reason for the concept, the statement that it wasn't a ruling, it was a decision. [[Well, it's also in the bill.]] But we're working on this bill, so... [[But in the bill that came from the Sejm.]] I see. We're working on this bill, and that's why I'm trying to figure it out. Don't you think that in a situation where there are doubts as to whether this is a ruling, the Constitutional Tribunal should speak again? I'm not talking about that ruling... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...12 judges. But after all...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u184	Mr. Senator, was this issue in such detail the subject of the committee's deliberations? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal... [[No, I'm asking if she shouldn't...]] I'm gonna say, not to complain, but I'm gonna say it's the same thing, and some of the others haven't been. Of course, we're having a debate here and... But no, no... [[It wasn't there.]] No, it wasn't. Mr. Marshal's just asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u186	Yeah, 'cause I think it's expensive. Even if I think that this Court is quite different at the moment and there are some things that can be questioned here, I would say that if you wanted to do something like this, then this is a better way than making such a law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u187	Okay, Mr. Marshal, but that's a statement, not a question. [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal.]] Good. You ask Senator Grażyna Sztark and then Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[Voice from the room: And yet...]] I didn't notice... It'll be later...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask the Senator's president... How do you see the physical appearance of this statement regarding the decision, that this is a decision with, from the justification, the identification of the particular circumstances associated with it? [[What...]] Well, that's it. How's that supposed to look like, what's that record supposed to look like? Because I can't imagine it. Thank you. [[Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u189	Wait a minute. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Senator, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u190	I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Ziientarski. In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, there has been such a sentence that it is basically the regulation that we are debating now, it is sure, so that it is He called, perhaps unprofessionally, a legislative error, because it refers to something that has actually already been decided. On the other hand, there is a statement in the explanatory memorandum that this is a response to the expectations of the international partners, which is, in short, the European Commission. Doesn't the senator think that if, in fact, our Legislative Office considers this to be unnecessary, which is really apparent, then the European Commission can also say something like this, so that it is not in line with the expectations of the European Commission, Commissioner Timmermans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u191	I'll let you answer... Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal... [[Please.]] The senator asked me how this could all look technically. Well, as far as technical matters are concerned, it's hard for me to say, but I imagine it so that based on the article that's already been amended. 19 of this law, which we have in print, and in connection with the provision in the justification of this law, this justification is in the sejm printing... That's where, in the explanatory memorandum, we have information that the publication of these decisions with appropriate annotations... There are, of course, appropriate annotations, stressing that the judgment was given in violation of the rules. And this is where the two laws are exchanged. That's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u192	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u193	I answer to Senator Libicki. It is clear to me, and this is apparent from the opinion of the Ombudsman, from the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court to this law, also from the comment of the Supreme Court on the White Paper distributed in the Commission, that absolutely both this submission and the subsequent ones which will be debated on Monday do not meet the Commission's recommendations. They are seemingly contrary to the constitution, and this matter is unnecessary, because the issue of publication of judgments has been clearly decided in the constitution, it is binding and it cannot be conditioned here, or, so to speak, to describe something that the constitution already unconditionally regulates. And these are the kind of situations that make us call a judgment in the bill... that is, we question the judgment of the Court, question its finality, and at the same time question its obligation... And we're explaining, oh, I'd say Not publishing it, although that's not quite true either, because I don't know why it wasn't done right away what is being done here today. There's no reason for that. Well, I understand that... that means indirectly it can be explained in such a way that it is the recommendations of the European Commission. So that's not how we would have done it, but there's a recommendation from the Commission that it should be published, so we're publishing it, although we're not actually publishing it. Well, that's the easiest way to say it. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Senator Zientarski? Please.]] Because the publication... I'll finish up. Because the publication simply involves legal consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u194	Please, Senator Florek. And then you're Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u195	Mr. Senator, just referring to what you said at the moment... 'Cause I've got a split personality right now, and I'm actually starting not to get it. Because so far we have had the Court's judgments and decisions taken in violation, etc. And now it turns out that the Court's judgments will be published by the President of the Council of Ministers, but in the same State Court... [[At the Constitutional Court.]] ...yeah, at the Constitutional Court, I'm sorry. In addition to the judgments, the Court will decide, and these decisions will no longer be published by the President of the Council of Ministers, but by the President of the Court. That's why there's a split here. Well, why isn't there a normal rule here... [[...about who's publishing...]] ...so that either the President of the Council of Ministers or the President of the Constitutional Tribunal does it? And not that some, or decisions, go here, and sentences here, and now you don't really know what a judgment is anymore. I mean, we know what a judgment is. And what is this decision? It complicates the system of these publications again. So it's... Is that, in your opinion... Was there a discussion on the committee that this was a split? [[And who will decide...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u196	Okay, thank you very much. [[No, it's...]] Were there any discussions about this? [[Because it's a certain disorder.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u197	There was a conversation about it, because it's... Of course it's a split personality and some kind of schizophrenia, because... I stress and repeat as a mantra: it is governed by the Constitution. It's specified who's in charge of whose order, i.e. who is ordered by the President, which is, as regards these three judgments referred to here It's published. It's immediately. And that's it. [[Thank you very much...]] And it's not published by the president, it's published by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to return to the fundamental issue that is constantly being raised here, especially in the questions addressed to your representative of the majority of the committee... I apologise to the senator of the majority of the committee. She's really basic. What else is the question of who is subject to the authority and what rules it should apply to, and what else is the matter of a member of that body. Art. 7 of the Constitution clearly states: public authorities The Constitutional Tribunal, but also the Sejm, we, too, are a public authority, operating on the basis and within the limits of the law. If the Sejm were to violate its own rules, which are in the hierarchy of law much lower than the constitution or the law, then such a law would be invalid. Anyone would have said that, and it could always have been called into question. The same is true with the Constitutional Tribunal, but we will come to that. However, the question of the members of this body is something else. 'Cause if you do. in the case of the Sejm, Article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the Constitution says that Members are representatives of the nation and do not bind their electoral instructions In other words, there is talk of freedom, of the boundaries within which the Member moves and, of course, by analogy, of the Senator of the Article. 195 makes it clear that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. not the Court as an authority, are free and subject only to the Constitution in the exercise of their office. Every judge in court is subject only to the Constitution, only to it... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, but still... [[Question.]] ...just one short sentence. [[But you know we have a minute to ask a question?]] The Constitutional Tribunal as a whole, as an organ, is also governed by law. And now the question arises: what if the Court as a whole, as an organ, breaks the law, for example. decide whether or not to take decisions in a different composition than that governed by law in the Act? And you didn't give me an answer to that question. Well, maybe the constitution doesn't have an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u200	Good. Mr. Senator... Are there any more questions for Senator Zientarski? [[Yeah, yeah.]] They are, aren't they? Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Constitution...]] Please, if they're... [[I'm here to see you...]] Which senator are you going to? Okay, now it's Senator Zientarski. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u201	So, yes, you're presenting your reasoning, your argument, you're trying to compare some issues here. Mr. Senator, if you were a member of the Constitutional Court, in the context of the discussions that take place there, the preparatory discussions, you could raise such errors, but a judgment has been delivered, which is, as the Constitution says, final. And since it's final, that means there's no verifier for that sentence. And the constitution didn't miss anything, there's no legal gap here. It is clearly stated that the sentence is final and that no authority is entitled to... If it's final, it's unverified.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u202	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for you... Are you here to see the rapporteur of the minority or the majority? [[Minorities.]] There you go. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u203	Mr. Senator, don't you think it would be better for the Constitutional Court to settle these cases? Let us assume that, as a full member, regardless of the fact that we are, of course, questioning the validity of the choice of the part of the judges sitting in the Court. Wouldn't that be a better way? Because here we're dealing with a legal monster. Well, you can write everything down, but what you write down must have some ratio legis, some sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u204	Good. Thank you very much. I understand you're asking for the senator's opinion. And I ask, Mr. Senator, was this a matter discussed during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u205	The question of the alternative was not directly addressed, because this discussion was moving mainly towards futility...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u206	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for Senator Zientarski? [[No, no, Mrs. Marshal...]] But, Mr. Marshal, this way we can... [[...the senator may answer my question, he may not answer, but you can't back off my questions.]] But I'm repealing this question, Mr. Marshal, because this is how we can discuss... [[How do you do it?]] In such a way that, as the senator admitted, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. [[This isn't the mode.]] Mr. Marshal, I have the right to dismiss the question, and I do. Do any of you have another question for Senator Ziientarski? [[Of course, I'm sure there are more questions.]] Good. Then please, Mr. Marshal... No, I'm sorry, but now there's gonna be questions... One more question for Senator Gogach, because I will announce a break in six minutes. [[But why one question?]] Excuse me? [[Why one question, Mrs. Marshal?]] Well, maybe two questions. Can we make it by 6:00? Let's see how many more questions we can ask. There you go. Now who would like to ask Senator Gogach a question? Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u207	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm going to go back to my question again. I'll tell you why. On whether or not you consider it justified in the seismic introduction of the ratio legis law, that is, all that is said there about the cooling down of emotions, silence and compromise. In order for us to evaluate these laws, we must have at least a small degree of common authority. The General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges issued a statement on the assessment of the whole package, including, of course, this law, which states that the legislative amendments presented as intended to improve the quality of the Polish judiciary, which are the subject of parliamentary work, do not remove any... [[But you're asking about the Constitutional Court Act?]] It's about the whole package. Also about this, but also about the whole package. [[I'm asking because we're talking about the Court.]] Yes, sir, but this is a statement about the whole package, among others. That's the bill. I would therefore like to hear an opinion from the President. Well, the said statement of the Supreme Court judges contradicts the thesis according to which anything has been repaired, among others. That bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u208	Mr. Senator, do you have anything to say about this? [[Do I have anything to say about this?]] Of course, to the extent that this was discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u209	No... At the committee meeting, as I recall, this problem was not raised. I'm familiar with my opinion, as I recall, but I don't have that opinion in front of me. As for the workshop of our actions, our legislative work, of course we always take into account all opinions, but opinions do not bind us, even the opinions of the Supreme Court. But thank you for that question. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u210	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? Please, Senator Libicki. [[I'd like to ask Senator Zientarski a question. May I?]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Yes, yes, of course. But let me ask you, do any of you have a question for Senator Gogach? No questions. Okay, thank you. Please, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u211	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a question. Mr Wójcik, present at the meeting of our committee, said that the intention of this submission was to calm the situation concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask you: where do you think this worrying situation with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal, which now needs to be calmed down, I understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u212	Well, we remember that this situation began when the Court's ruling was not published. And then there were six more laws, including. And this... And here I can't agree with the idea of it being 13 people. After all, it was already known that three people did not swear, and therefore this law was introduced, one of a series of several laws that destroyed this Court, among others. giving this thirteen, while at the time there were 12 Judges of the Court. Well, that's what it looked like. Besides, it's hard to imagine that an organ of 15 people would have a minimum of 13 people to rule on. We can do the same to other courts. I'm not talking about Parliament anymore. Or to our committee, where the quorum is 1/3... here's 50%. Well, we see for what purpose it was created. Anyway, it was clear and obvious to everyone. It certainly will not change and will not calm the situation, because the consequences of not publishing or unsuccessful publication... It's impossible. It is simply the publication of any judgment that has legal effect. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u213	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the rapporteurs? There isn't. [[It's gone.]] Thank you very much. Is the Ombudsman... There isn't. Would a government representative like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue.]] But on a formal or a formal proposal? Because there's a difference. [[About the formal issue. I don't want to apply. Mr. Marshal decided at the Senior Convention meeting that we would be sitting until 6:00 p.m.]] I want to extend it by an hour. If the Ombudsman wishes to speak, he will speak on Monday. There's no problem. I'd like to reassure your marshal that we won't restrict anyone. And we're not restricting it, as you pointed out. The possibility to speak and ask questions. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, some senators before 6:00 p.m....]] We're extending it by an hour. Mr. Marshal, I'm extending the session by an hour. I've already made that decision. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u214	I'm the one applying for a recess by 10:00 Monday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u215	I don't accept this offer, Mr. Marshal. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Dear Mr. Marshal...]] I want to be spoken by the Minister. Let's not be destructive, Mr. Marshal, because it doesn't have any... [[But this is a formal conclusion.]] Mr. Marshal, but... [[Obstructive? It's supposed to be until 6:00, and you come in and extend it. It's you...]] An hour. It's happened more than once and not twice. Mr. Marshal, we're not discussing this. [[Yeah, well, you should've told me somehow.]] We're not discussing this, Mr. Marshal. I have that right and I use it. [[There was a formal conclusion. He needs to be voted out.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, there's no quorum. I'm not gonna interrupt because there's no quorum. [[It's okay. There's a formal conclusion.]] Thank you very much. [[There is a formal request for a recess until 10 a.m. Monday.]] No quorum, no vote. You're welcome, Minister. Tell me what you're talking about. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[But...]] I'm not closing the discussion. Mr. Marshal, it doesn't change anything. What do you mean? About using obstruction? No! Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[I mean, part of the senators are gone.]] I'm not giving you the floor. Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u216	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize at first for my vocal disability due to a cold. I've been with you since 8:30. I was at your disposal and answered your questions during the joint committee meeting. Of course, if there are questions now, I will try to answer them if I can. At first, I would like to say that there is no government position for the project, but the Minister of Justice did not comment on these solutions. I would also like to repeat what I said to you this morning that the rationale for this solution is to stabilise the legal system and calm the situation, calm the dispute around the Constitutional Court. That's all I have to say about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. Questions for the Minister. Who wants to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u218	Minister, the draft law and the reply of the Senator of the majority indicate that there are no judgments that these three judgments are decisions and that they do not have any legal effect. And the question is, what's the point of this bill if there's any judgments that don't have legal effect? So what is the ratio of legis of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u219	Senator Libicki. You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I can answer right away...]] No, I'll group the questions. You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u220	Minister, you said that the purpose of this presentation is to calm the situation, the atmosphere around the Constitutional Court. I would like to know, therefore, why this worrying situation has arisen around the Constitutional Court, what are the reasons for this situation. If you could give your opinion here, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u221	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u222	Minister, I asked you at the meeting, and the question was about the opinion of our Legislative Office. You said you didn't have it. I hope you do now. My question I'm sure you've heard me ask the senators before. This Article is applicable. 2. Unfortunately, the senators haven't explained to me what this art is for. Two, since we have a general rule that it's published. Was it not possible, as our legislator writes, to give this law without this second article?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u223	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Shark. There you go. Senator, come on. [[Thank you very much. You surprised me, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. Well, the senator raised her hand, so you're not surprised at anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u224	Yes, sir. Minister, I'm going to ask you again, because at the committee meeting, I already asked you... I'd like to hear it again. You said that the draft law was brought in by Members. Please tell me, therefore, what is the opinion of the Minister of Justice on the need to replace the Constitutional Tribunal ruling of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November 2016. On the decision, with a note indicating the circumstances attached to them. Is that the position of Minister of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u225	Is there another question? Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u226	Dear Minister, I would like to refer to these words of yours about calming the situation and reminding you that we already had a much more dramatic situation related to the Constitutional Tribunal, when we had mass protests of citizens on the streets of Poland. The state did not react at all to these protests, to these demands, to what was happening. Then why is it suddenly such an idea today to change the Court Act and, as you say, to meet certain expectations and try to calm the situation down? Where does this come from, and why now and not before?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u227	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u228	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth question, as I understand it, refers to the first question, namely, what is the ratio legis, why this law is needed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're dealing with an emergency situation: 3 decisions, so to speak, hang in a vacuum. In order to organise and stabilise the legal system, it is necessary for this law to be adopted by the Lower House and by the Higher House of Parliament. We're not dealing with this. And here I answer one of the questions. With judgments, as the rapporteur has repeatedly reported in his replies, i.e. with judgments or provisions. Meanwhile, we are dealing with decisions. What's the difference between them? Well, in order to deal with a judgment, it must be delivered by the Court in accordance with a specific procedure and composition, and As the rapporteur indicated, One of the decisions is on March 9th... It's about the wrong composition. I do not want to repeat the argument that has already been quoted many times today. There was a question about what was worrying about the Constitutional Tribunal's operation. I don't see anything like that today. The Constitutional Tribunal shall act as it should. Yeah, it works the way it's supposed to. If there are fewer rulings, it follows that at a certain time, as I remember correctly, some judges could not judge because they simply took late leave, sometimes very long. So please bear in mind that the situation was extraordinary, and for a long time the judges did not take vacations. As far as the article is concerned. 2, it is necessary because we are dealing with decisions, not judgments, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u229	Please, who else wants to ask a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please... Oh, Senator Zientarski was the first. I'm sorry. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u230	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The case has an international dimension, Minister, according to the reasons you have cited. She wasn't prepared by the government... she doesn't even have a government opinion. In that case, was there at least a constitutional opinion commissioned? I'm asking because it's a constitutional problem, it's an important issue, it's a matter that's supposed to calm me down, so to speak, inside and outside. Could you give me the names of the constitutionalists who gave a positive opinion? Because I know that the first president of the Supreme Court and the ombudsman, well, everyone makes it clear that this is a negative submission as unconstitutional. Didn't the ministry, for example, because of interest, true, bothered to ask for such an opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u231	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u232	Thank you. Minister, I would like you to explain to me how, in a proper journal, where these decisions will be made, you can imagine marking these circumstances. I'd like to hear how this is going to be done, because never before, as far as I know, there was no such thing, there was no such thing in the case of other laws, they were just announced, and that's it. The second question concerns international issues. Your colleagues, perhaps there was also a minister, on the occasion of subsequent amendments at least six times on our questions and on our statements that it would have a very serious negative impact on the image of our country in the international arena, said that one and the other had nothing at all to do with it. That's not what you're saying today. I'd ask you to explain the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u233	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u234	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, doesn't this law create a precedent by stating that some of the judgments of the Court are not judgments, but decisions? I'm not saying that it's tautology, that there's a word that makes sense and that there are decisions as a result of... Aren't you afraid that, since there are serious doubts about some lawyers as to the validity of the current Court, other judgments issued in the current Court of Justice can be questioned by this way? It's a precedent. [[That's a question, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u235	Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Minister. In one of the paragraphs here, in the explanatory memorandum, it is written that in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 188 and Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 The effect of announcing this ruling by the Court of Justice declaring the provision of the law incompatible with the Constitution is the loss of force in force by that provision. But it is further written that the provisions considered to be incompatible with the Constitution for the first 2 of these decisions have not been in force for many months, and the third states that the provisions examined were in line with the Constitution, and its publication is all the more irrelevant to the Polish legal system. And I'm really sorry, but I'm afraid that after you took that record... Really, let's think about it, let's think about Monday, if by chance... 'Cause we remember talking about them meeting at the Court for cookies and coffee and something... and that's an opinion. So it doesn't work out that if this bill is voted out, then it can be considered an opinion, not a decision of the Senate as a whole.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u237	Thank you very much. Who else wants to ask a question? Senator Zdrojewska, please. That's five, last one now. Minister, you'll be kind enough to prepare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u238	Minister, during this morning's committee meeting, I asked for some symbolic apologies from you or from the applicants, that is, Members. That's because I think it's an apology. I'll try to prove it. The first point is, as I said, the fact that mass protests took place, and the state claimed that this law was perfect, that it did not require any amendments. We have tabled these amendments. And now, in this project, you have made amendments that our Legislative Office has proposed... Whether it's in one project or another... the amendments that our Legislative Bureau proposed. So in the meantime, you've changed your mind, and that's 180 degrees. In such cases, an apology is truly due... [[But, Senator, I'm asking you a question...]] And please refer to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u239	It's a reference, isn't it? Good. Because it's been a minute. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll start with the last question. In the morning, I already responded to them at the joint committee meeting. Do I owe you an apology? Senator, no, there's nothing to apologize for because you can't publish something that doesn't comply with the sentence. Or a decree, well, it's not a judgment. But we have a settlement in the vacuum. Do you? And here I also answer many people's questions. If an empty card was sent for publication, would it also be published? Oh, no. So... Oh, no. There must also be some reasonableness of action. But there's three decisions we have in the vacuum, and there's no doubt about it. As far as the introduction of new standards is concerned, nothing new We're not moving in. Art. The 19th law we are discussing uses such a concept from a formal legal point of view, so we do not introduce anything new. As to whether the Court is acting in accordance with the rules... Yeah, he's running by the book today, finally. I am pleased that any decision taken by the Court is in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and there is no such situation as that referred to here by the Senator rapporteur, that when decisions are to be given in the composition of at least 13 persons, they are issued in a smaller composition. Well, you can't do that. As for the next question, is this precedent... There is no precedent, but this is indeed an exordinary situation. You have to remember that. We have not met with such a situation so far that the Court, despite the fact that it should act in the composition provided for by the provisions of the Act, does not act in such a composition. This was not the case in the history of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is therefore an absolutely emergency situation and the legislator must deal with this emergency situation. Therefore, the regulations we are discussing today are simply needed. How is the publication to be published? As I recall, Senator, the explanatory statement says exactly how this should be done. Were there any government opinions? No, there was no opinion of the Ministry in this regard. I repeat once again: this is a result of the initiative of Members, Members have the right to take this initiative. It's this way, it's not a government project. Therefore, please address these questions rather to the representatives of the applicants, to the Members, to the parliamentarians. It is one of the roads and it is possible because it is provided for by law. Thank you very much. [[And my question?]] I told you, as I recall. In the explanatory memorandum, there is a procedure for how This is to be published.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u241	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u242	Minister, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that this law should lead to the stabilisation of the legal system and the strengthening of the institutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, I ask: has she been weakened? And if so, what actions? If it has to be strengthened, it means that it has been weakened. Moreover, the fact that the position of the body needs to be strengthened is a strange wording. Do you also believe, like the authors of this project, that it has been weakened and that the legal system has been destabilized? That's how I read the justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u243	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort volunteered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u244	Speaking of the Minister's answer just now to my question, I'd like you to clarify, because this is the first time I've heard... Since when is justification a legal standard? So I would like you to explain to me what the text of this publication will look like. That's the first question. Two. You just said, "If a white card is sent to me, should I publish it?" Now tell me if these aren't, in your words, judgments, judgments, but it's something unknown. What right do you publish this? What right... [[Thank you very much...]] ...it will be possible to publish it if you just said: we have no obligation to publish something that is not suitable for publication.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u245	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u246	Minister, I'm gonna bring this up, because it's not like we're discussing the Constitutional Court in this room for the first time... [[Seventh time.]] Seventh time. And we were judged against honor and faith here when we made some of the amendments that you are now proposing. We were also accused of acting on behalf of the street and abroad. Yes? Those were the statements. Oh, Senator Bonkowski nods. Yeah, he's the one who said we were acting... [[I didn't tell you, but I'm confirming what you're saying.]] Now what, ladies and gentlemen, are you going to say? What's it like now? What is the situation that the Prime Minister has changed and you are finally bowing down and submitting to the public and the Commission and the European Union? Explain it to me, Minister. And I'm asking you to... Exactly. Isn't the sovereign more important than the foreign one? Why didn't you listen to the sovereign? And don't send those questions back to the Member who was here with us this morning, and now he's gone because he's just not here. The only person we can ask is you, because you, when you give a negative opinion, can still stop this bill. [[But now, Senator, it's been a minute.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u247	Thank you. Who else wants to ask a question? You're welcome. [[There are no volunteers.]] There's no more... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u248	Thank you very much. I am not referring to the Member. He appeared today as a representative of the applicants, but on a law that concerned the Supreme Court, so another law. I, of course, am happy to answer your questions, as you can see. As far as bending is concerned, no one bends before anyone, Ladies and gentlemen. But let us remember that it was the subject of a dispute and there was a discussion around the Constitutional Tribunal. It concerned whether these are judgments, whether these are decisions, other decisions. And I'm glad that today we've been discussing this for five or six hours, because it's better to have a discussion here than on the street, Senator. And I'm very happy for you, but no one's bowed to anyone. There is a dialogue with the European Commission, and there is no doubt about it. But in order to calm the situation around the Constitutional Tribunal itself, it is, after all, one of the most important bodies operating in the State, in my opinion, absolutely necessary to publish these decisions. Settlements, not judgments. Because... I've already explained the difference between my judgment and my judgment and my decision. However, these 3 decisions are still in the vacuum, and the legislator must put this situation in order. This, of course, is good for stabilising the whole legal system. About the question of justification... Counselor, you're a good lawyer, you know perfectly well that justification is also an integral part of the bill and is supportive in many cases, so I don't know why you're dropping anything. That's how the designers built the rules, and that's how they introduced... That's the justification that was prepared, not the other way around. Then I don't know why you're questioning it. But this will be published in the Official Journal of the Laws, will be published in accordance with the procedure that is foreseen. That's it. About the question... I don't know. She was still... [[...a white card issue.]] Was there still a white card issue? I don't remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u249	Why... I asked you a question about the fact that since you say that not everything can be published only and only the judgments of the Court of Justice... Because if a white card came to me, I wouldn't have published it. If you don't think these decisions have the merit of the judgment, then why are you publishing them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u250	Well, Mr. Senator, there was a dispute. You've been in your position the whole time. Like part of the opposition or maybe all the opposition here in the Senate That these are judgments. Well, for us, they're not, absolutely... We can't take them as sentences. These are decisions. But remember, we care about this... Of course, I've shown an example very, very hypothetical, perhaps reworded. It was about something completely different. But I think you want peace around the Court, and I think you want to not argue about it. And I don't understand, I'm gonna be honest... From the very beginning of the morning, from 8:30 p.m., when I showed up, from the first minutes... I thought we were going to proceed very quickly over this bill. Well, what's the real issue here? If you also want to calm the situation in the discussion, also strengthen Poland's position on the international stage, then why are we having a discussion on this subject for 6 hours? After all, we actually keep saying the same things all the time. I honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u251	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand there are no further questions. Yes, thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm gonna tell you right away that I'm not gonna close this discussion and announce a break so that the senators can get in on Monday. Senator Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. Then Senator Pociej and Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the seventh law amending the Constitutional Court Act, the precedent law. This is a law that opens the way to question the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Calling these judgments decisions decisions... And who will decide what is the decision, and what is the judgment? He who publishes, the one who decides to publish, i.e. the executive authority, the Prime Minister. Prime Minister of the PiS Government, the Prime Minister did not publish the verdicts, claiming that they were not sentences. Minister, you say it was a decision. Then I heard other concepts; they said they were opinions. However, the decision is more serious. You could still call it opinions. According to the statement of reasons, this law will seek or seek to stabilise the legal system and strengthen the constitutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. So first you weakened her and led to a destabilization of the legal system. Not only through this law, but also through other laws concerning the general court, the National Council of the Court of Justice And now you're writing that it needs to be strengthened. That it needs to be strengthened. But how do you strengthen it? Because those laws violated the constitution, and now, by introducing this law, through this law, you want to justify this violation of the constitution legally. That's no way to... This is a really curiosity bill. Curiosal. The Constitution speaks in art. 190 that the judgments of the Court are immediately publicised. Judgments, not decisions. I understand you didn't like those sentences, but you're opening the way to a very dangerous precedent. You are showing how decisions of the Constitutional Court, judgments of the Constitutional Court can be rejected. Of course, you are doing this under the pressure of the European Commission. It is good that you decide to do this, but why did you ignore the pressure and appeal of the opposition, which said that these Constitutional Court laws run the legal system and the Constitutional Tribunal into a dead end? Why didn't you listen to the opposition? Why didn't you listen to the street demonstrations? Why didn't you listen to the Poles, the Sovereign, what did you call him? I'm afraid this isn't the right way. Well, you're gonna have to explain it to your electorate somehow. You said you absolutely disagreed, and you can't agree to be influenced by external forces. The European Union, the European Commission, was an external force in your assessment. And right now under the influence of the European Commission and the threat of Article. 7, but also the threats to the budget you decide to do it, you decide to do it. Where's the sovereign? And where is this sovereign?! The bill, as I say... This bill approves the violation of the constitution. She's unacceptable. It's like a legal monster. I sympathise with the Minister and the Senator rapporteur, the majority of the PiS of this gymnastics, the gymnastics we have seen within a few hours. We asked, and we're gonna ask. But we asked because this is a very bad and dangerous bill. 'Cause what's she saying? No, it also states that it is published in one form or another under one name or another of decisions which, as you claim, are not issued, but which are not functioning, do not function in the legal system. And that's what you want to sell to the European Commission? And where is the oath of three judges who have been properly elected? This is a fundamental matter in the Constitutional Court and in the functioning of the Constitutional Court. So you want to show that the publication of judgments that you claim are not judgments and have no meaning is a step in the right direction? It's a sham. It's an attempt to show that something is being done, that things are changing, but just to keep things from changing, that everything is okay. Well, it's not all right. You have to swear three judges who have been properly elected. We must withdraw from the fact that the Supreme Court Act shortens the term of office, the constitutional term of office of the President from 6 years to 4 years. Finally, the KRS bill needs to be fixed. But the main thing is to make most of the National Judicial Council dependent on political choices, not some other side thing. Minister, Mr. Marshal, I must say at the end, although Senator Ryszka is not... Senator Ryszka addressed Senator Piotr Ziientarski, a lawyer who defended political prisoners in Koszalin and who for many years was a representative of the Bishop's curia in Koszalin, and who, of course, criticized what Senator Piotrowski was doing and his attitude... [[Voice from the room: Member.]] ...Mr Piotrowski... [[Peterovich.]] ...Piotrovich, Mr Piotrowicz. And it's totally unacceptable. He can't... Maybe from Senator Ryszka's point of view. Senator Zientarski, as Senator Ryszka said... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but it's been ten minutes.]] Okay, okay, It does not reach Mr Piotrowicz's heels, but, excuse me, we must weigh our words. And you have to know that this... [[Voice from the room: Who measured it?]] [[Mr. Marshal, you abuse the decency of this House. You can't say that. You're insulting people.]] [[But now...]] Did you hear that? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But, Senator...]] Not me. Not me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me, I haven't given you the floor.]] Senator, I repeat, I protest against such rude behavior. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I understand it's a conclusion...]] As a result, I'm making an application... [[Correction. Yes, please.]] [[Closer to the body's shirt.]] [[Please remain calm.]] Conclusions. I submit two applications, one for rejection, and the other for amendment of this law, for the amendment of this law in such a way that it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please, Senator Alexander Comfort. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, please leave these amendments to us because we won't register them... Mr. Marshal, the corrections. [[Wait a minute.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You listen first, and then you say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot add a third member, Minister, because the Minister is no longer here. It's late, so... unfortunately, I'm gonna have to talk a little bit in the vacuum, but that's okay. You said the Minister... You were surprised that this discussion took so long today. After all, these are the Members, behind whom the Ministry wants to punish, save something, who want to resolve the problems that they themselves have actually created. I'm surprised the Minister is so surprised. Well, it's about the justice system, the whole judicial system, so we're talking about what's been going on here for two years, and about the six previous proposals for the Constitutional Tribunal. And by the prism of this law, it is best to determine and show how much wrong has been done in these two years as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned. The authors of this law have written that its purpose is to silence emotions, compromise and that it is a law that will help us... And it still sounds, even if it wasn't said directly. It sounds like it may finally be possible to reverse the dispute that we have been pushed into by the ruling majority, the dispute with the European Union. I am glad that it finally sounds like something needs to be fixed, because when we talked earlier about how everything is going to get broken and that everything is going to have to be fixed, we were told that everything is okay, that it is a very good bill and that no one will discuss it with us, and Brussels is too far away. It's not gonna fix anything. I will be based on the last resolution of the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges, which does not leave a dry thread on these decisions, not only on this, but on the other two, which we are proceeding and which we will talk about after the break. What do the Supreme Court judges say? We find that the amendments to these laws, which are the subject of parliamentary work, are presented as improving the quality of the Polish judiciary and the justice system. They do not remove the common drawbacks of these laws. These amendments deepen the dependence of the judicial authority on the executive authorities, thus misleading the Polish and international public opinion. This is not political propaganda, this is the opinion of our greatest authority, because the Supreme Court judges are the highest profession that can happen in law. You said the Minister didn't understand that we're changing positions. No, we don't change positions. We've been showing up all day, and we've been saying that these were full sentences that were due, because it was a duty to publish. My questions to the Minister, from whom he actually escaped, indicated that it was the Minister who changed his mind at the moment. Because if it was said that a document had no quality to be published in the official journal, it was such a sudden change of position that because we were pressed, we would publish it, then it is indeed a change and declare that actually this proverbial white paper will be published. And that's something that must be shocking for every lawyer if you have that type of lawyer. I'm talking about the Minister's opinion about the quality of those published... for us judgments, but for him it's nothing. And I think, just as we asked the committee to think about it, that we should not proceed on an hour-to-hour basis, because there are accidents, it led to the president's veto... Then the minister. I don't know if it was the Minister or his colleague. He also said everything was okay. So, Mr. President vetoed the ideal? No. It was just a legal thing. We asked you to give us, all of us, a moment of reflection in a situation where there are such devastating assessments of our Legislative Office. Once again, this has been done without, in our opinion, giving the High House sufficient time to reflect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will now speak. You're welcome, Senator. Like I said, I'm not gonna close the discussion, and after the senator's speech, I'm gonna announce a recess. Okay? Unless one of you sitting here wants to speak, you're welcome, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u256	Thank you very much for this, Mr. Marshal. I think some people, knowing we're done at 6:00, are already gone, and she's gonna want to speak on Monday. [[I'm not closing the discussion. That's the third time I've said it. I'm definitely not gonna lock her up.]] We appreciate that, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a piece of the legal opinion of our Legislative Office and to refer later to this section. It clearly states that the Constitution itself in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 and 2 confer on all decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal the characteristics of the finality, without being assessed by another body, and at the same time constitute an order for them to be published without delay. It may be concluded that the legislator is not entitled to adopt different solutions on this subject. What does that really mean? That we're gonna have another constitutional delicacy. That means that this bill is incompatible with the constitution. I'm saying it again. Just as we weren't wrong before, yes, and now we may be right. I would like to remind you that what happened is not the only charge, but the most serious one: that this law is de facto incompatible with the Constitution and that this constitution is broken again. So we can assume that's not going to work, i.e. we will not convince the European Union that we are already acting in accordance with the law, and so once again we will waste a lot of our time, the time of the Sejm, the time of all those who follow these changes, the time of the European Commission and the Venice Commission. Another point I would like to share is the assessment of the fact that Judge Przyłębska has not come to our deliberations. I think it's a scandal. Ever since I was in the Senate, it's happened for the first time. The representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal have always been here, sat with us and considered the Senate worthy of coming here and listening to our comments. Ba, Judge Przyłębska didn't make any comments, and maybe she has them. It was Judge Przyłębska who was interviewing Mr. Timmermans and the people who came here. I don't get it at all. I repeat: I don't understand it at all. Especially since the Constitutional Tribunal is not specifically worked at the moment, as we know. We know there's a lot less sentences going on and the judges have a lot less work to do. I'd like to say that in my opinion all these trials I'm talking about the next amendment. They're pretty inept and desperate. I have the impression that you would like to have a cookie and eat a cookie, i.e. gain control over the Constitutional Tribunal and rule over the courts, while at the same time not endangering the European Union and trying to normalize relations with it. I don't think that's gonna work. In my opinion, however, it is necessary to choose a more democratic option, more focused on respect for the law, and less on subjecting the Ministry of Justice and other authorities of the State, i.e. the executive authority, the judicial authority. I'll end it with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Excuse me? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Corrigendum. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u258	I think the last part of my speech was misunderstood. I protested against the statement of Senator Ryszka that the former political defender and long-term representative of the bishop's curia, Senator Piotr Zientarski, did not grow up to be a member of the group. So that's what it sounded like, or it should be, my speech. And that also resulted in my uproar. Well, there's a difference... At all, I think that saying that someone is not up to the heels of someone is not a good and proper statement in the Polish Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u259	Thank you very much. In that case, I'm announcing a recess until Monday, April 16th, until 10:00 p.m. We'll have the announcement in a minute. So by 10:00, by Monday, April 16, there will be a break. The discussion is open and the senators can speak up. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u260	Message one. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws, Senate printing No 791, will take place today, 13 April, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in session in room 182. Message two. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the review of the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws will take place on 16 April, Monday, at 9 a.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-13-senat-59-2.u261	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Break.]] I've already announced it. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 57]]
