ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. And your senators, please take your seats. We begin to consider the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond Primate of Poland. I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting: Fr. I'm Crying, Fr. Prof. Paweł Bortkiewicz, Prof. Jerzy Wojtczak-Szyszkowski. [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you that there are students listening to our discussions at this point. ..with the carers. The Salesian Public Schools Complex in Zabrze. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No 951, and the committee's report In print No 951 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. Oh, it's a little quieter now. We're good to go. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, honorable guests! The Salesian Youth Dear! On behalf of the senators of the motion for a resolution of the Senate Legislative Commission on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond, the Primate of Poland, I have the honour to report on the meeting of the committee held on 23 October during which the first reading of the draft of the resolution took place. First of all, I would like to thank the senators for their thorough examination of the text of the proposed resolution and for their amendments. I also address thanks to our legislators. And I thank the senators, the members of the committee, for the unanimous adoption of this motion for a resolution. During the discussion in the committee, we stressed the merits of the card. August Hlond as a great husband of the Church, but also as a statesman, perfectly moving around state events. In particular, two extremely important periods of his work to unite Poles were indicated: it was an interwar period, as well as three years after World War II. And here I would like to remind you that by calling in 1926 the Catholic bishop August Hlond for the Archbishopship of Poznań and Gniezno, and at the same time the office of the Primate of Poland, Pope Pius XI can be said to He knew exactly who he was calling. Namely, when the nominate thanked him for his choice, the Pope was to address him with the following words: "I am appointing the son of Silesian land to this ancient capital of bishops, which I wish to show how much I care about the unity of Poland, that Poland should be one. It may be a bit surprising words, but let us remember that Pope Pius XI, i.e. Achilles Ratti, papal commissioner of the plebiscite for Upper Silesia, Warmia and Mazury, later the papal nuncio in Poland, was well aware of the last history of Poland, that 123 years of partitions caused Poland to actually form three different nations: one Germanized, the other refurbished and the third living in Galicia, in which the Church was under the rule of Jozefinism, i.e. as if the emperor was the head of the Church. Thus, this papal task for the Primate August Hlond to merge Poles into one nation was an all-right and necessary task. As a Silesian and Pole August Hlond, looking for this unifying sign, he turned his eyes on Jasna Góra, in the image of Our Lady of Poland, because the cult of Our Lady of Jasna Góra united all Polish lands. You can certainly say that the image of Our Lady of Jasna Góra was in every Polish house. And what did the primate do? He connected the works of the Polish Episcopate with Jasna Góra. The great state pilgrimages to Jasna Góra, Częstochowa, began. And the summit on a national scale was the First Plenary Synod, which took place on Jasna Góra in 1936 under the leadership of the legate of the papal card. Francesco Marmaggie. The Second Unification of Poles by Primate August Hlond took place after World War II, when already as Archbishop of Gniezno-Warsaw, he deserved to be a steadfast Primate, who in the new reality of the state built structures of church administration in the Western and Northern Lands. And it was the greatest proof of the love of the country, proof of the patriotism of the Great Primate of the Second Republic, as John Paul II called it. And for this reason, the Communists should literally carry the Primate August Hlond on their hands because he built the church administration on these lands while building Poland there. However, the Communists could not spare the Cards. Hlond said he kept his distance from the new system. Here I will mention that when the Sejm was established in 1947 and when the Primate was asked to perform the Holy Mass for this purpose, he answered with courage: The Church cannot accept this. Those were the words of a true patriot. And how true patriots were treated at the time, the walls of prisons and mass graves around them speak. Also, the sudden death of Primate August Hlond covers a great mystery. Being a strong, healthy man, when he was only 67 years old, on 14 October 1948 he was subjected to a simple procedure to remove the appendicitis. The surgery went well. A week later, the primate died of peritonitis. The question should be asked: Was there not enough antibiotics for the primate? And if he received it, then what disease did he die of? High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Dear guests! Allow me to read the text of the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond, Primate of Poland. Here is the content of this resolution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond, the Grand Primate of the Second Republic As John Paul II called him. His rich, eventful life belongs to four periods of the latest history of Poland. He spent his childhood and early youth (1881.1893) in Upper Silesia, a patriotic, very religious family (of the twelve children of Hlond four sons became priests). Another seven years he stayed in Italy, deepening his spiritual formation at the Salesian priests' assembly. As a clergyman and a young priest, he led Salesian factories in Oświęcim, Cracow and Przemyśl in 1900. Then for the next 13 years he worked in Vienna, performing, among others. the function of the province of the vast Salesian Province of Austria-German-Hungarian Province. After the final determination of the borders of the Second Republic of Poland, he was appointed by Pope Pius XI as the apostolic administrator of the Polish part of Upper Silesia (since 1922) and soon became its first bishop (1925/1926). From scratch, he created a Catholic diocese. The archbishop of Gniezno-Poznań and Primate of Poland, appointed in June 1926, received the cardinal's dignity. In his mission August Hlond tried to be a member of the unity of the state and the Church, sought to revive religious life, cared for the needy, unemployed and the poorest, creating a Social Council at the Primas of Poland or establishing a Catholic School of Nursing in Poznań. His messages and shepherding letters, in which he dealt with the most important social problems, were significant. Several of these letters, among others. The Christian principles of state life (1932), the Christian spirit in Poland (1934), the Catholic moral principles (1936), are considered foreordained for subsequent resolutions of the Second Vatican Council. Cardinal August Hlond also took part in the life of the universal Church: he participated in numerous conventions and international conventions, among others. He represented the Catholic Church in Poland at the Eucharistic Congress in Carthage (1930), Dublin (1932), Buenos Aires (1934), Budapest (1938). He was three times a papal legate at the Eucharistic Congress in Ljubljana (in 1935 and 1939) and at the Congress of Christ the King in Poznań (1937). While traveling the world, he was interested in missionary apostolicism. In 1927 he organized the International Missionary Congress in Poznań. In this spirit you must also see his concern for emigration pastoral ministry and the founding of the Society of Christ for Refugees, now the Society of Christ for Foreign Polonia, whose purpose is to care for the pastoral care of Polish emigration. He spent the period of World War II on forced emigration in Italy, France, Switzerland and Germany. While abroad, the Primate provided the world with information about the crimes committed by the Germans in the Polish Nation, cared for Polish prisoners in German camps, and made documents for refugees. 3 February 1944 The Primate was arrested by the Gestapo. He was in three German prisons for 14 months. They tried to force him to collaborate with the Third Reich, which he definitely rejected. Released on 1 April 1945 by American troops, he went to Rome, where he received extraordinary power of attorney from Pius XII to create a Polish ecclesiastical administration in the Western and Northern Lands and appoint apostolic administrators with the rights of bishops to the uninhabited diocese. In 1946 he became an archbishop of Gniezno and Warsaw. In the new system reality, the Primate August Hlond became a husband of providence, a model of a firm attitude towards the communist system. When he saw the poverty reigning, he appealed for the charity of the Church, and he did not allow himself to overtake anyone in helping those in need. Having dealings with foreign charities, he personally distributed gifts to the poor who lived near his residence. He died on October 22, 1948 in a hospital, under unexplained circumstances. In the last word he said: "I have always worked for the Holy Church, for the extension of the Kingdom of God, for Poland, for the good of the Polish Nation. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the representative of the applicants. I would remind you that Senator Czesław Ryszka is also the representative of the applicants. Would any of your Senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Żaryn signed up for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests sitting on this side of the room! I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members to two issues from the rich life and the rich achievements of cardinals. August Hlond, Primate of Poland. I have chosen these two issues, because to some extent they concern us, the senators, the Senate, and on the other hand they concern, and maybe the most, also the Polish state. And all of us here are statemen. I would like to remind you of the work of Primate August Hlond, which was the establishment in 1932 of the Society of Christ for Foreign Polonia. As you know, we are the Senate responsible for Polonia, for Poles living outside the country and as senators we should pay special tribute to the Primate, because he, as a public person and important in the Second Republic, read the signs of the time which were then visible and which had to be understood. And it turned out that this understanding of the signs of time was extremely important from the perspective of years, decades of history of the Polish nation. The appointment of the Society of Christ was preceded by the efforts of Primate August Hlond in the Holy See, who were successful in becoming the guardian of Polonia. Being the guardian of Polonia, emigration opened up the possibility for Primate August Hlond to later, when World War II broke out, and then when it ended the way it ended, i.e. our collective national failure... Primate August Hlond's power of attorney regarding the care of Polonia allowed him to create a pastoral network with the help of a bishop and later Archbishop Józef Gawlin, a direct influence on Polonia scattered around the world. Polish Catholic missions, Polish parishes lived their own independent life in communist years. Thanks to this independent space, Polonia has been a living witness to the existence of Polish aspirations for freedom and independence. It wouldn't have been a great work if it hadn't been for the card. August Hlond, who already realized in the Second Republic of Poland that the Polish people have a certain specificity associated with historical experience In general, it is not by its will that it is scattered around the world and struggles in this world to return to independent Poland. This is the great work of August Hlond, and to some extent we are heirs, which August Hlond's work obliges. So it is worth talking about it, discussing it, and, above all, knowing how to take care of Polonia outside the country. Undoubtedly without the Church, without Catholicism, without this system of values that brings Christianity, care for Polonia is an appearance. And another very important issue about August Hlond's life. Namely, when he returned to Poland in 1945, he was given special powers by Pope Pius XII, in tutto territorio polecco could create the administration of the Catholic Church. It was July 1945. At that time there were certainly no solutions for the Pope or August Hlond concerning the actual border arrangement after World War II. Primate August Hlond, when he arrived in Poland, immediately realized It was a matter of 2 weeks when he made this decision. The fact that many Poles expelled from the eastern lands, as well as Polish families, forced by economic reasons, due to the pauperization and consequences of World War II to settle the Western and Northern lands, will not be found there without the Catholic Church. These crowds expelled from the Eastern Kres will not find themselves on lands that breathed German and breathed Protestantism. And therefore August Hlond immediately interprets received powers in such a way as to be able to install the Polish Church there, install priests, install the structure of the church administration, so that Poles there are more and more strongly, from year to year, and then from decade to decade discover this land as Polish and their own. And there would be no Poland on the Western and Northern lands not because Stalin existed, it wouldn't have been if it weren't for the Primate of Poland August Hlond. And this is the second canonical truth about his great merits, which we should emphasize today, because we are in a free, independent country and we are coming out of various, not only irrelevant, but also lying calculators that we inherited from the Polish People's Republic. I have often appealed, and so let this appeal be made clear here: in all the capitals of these apostolic administrations on the North and Western lands the monument to August Hlond should stand. I look forward to finally reaching a clear agreement between the local authorities and the state authorities in those lands. August Hlond should be honoured on the Western and Northern lands especially, because thanks to it there is Polishness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u5	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond, the Primate of Poland. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. I would like to inform you that 66 senators took part in the vote, 65 voted in favour of the resolution, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond, Primate of Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! As announced earlier, I propose supplementing the agenda with items: a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws and consider this item as item twenty-first on the agenda; consent to the appointment of the Ombudsperson for the Rights of the Child and consider this item as item twenty-second of the agenda; Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and consider this item as item twenty-third of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would also like to inform you that today from 1 p.m. to 1.45 p.m., the adjournment will be managed. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 969, and the report of the Commission In print No 969 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please move the calls to the cockroaches. Thank you for leaving the room quietly. Senator Pupa has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u6	The Marshal of the Sejm directed the Senate Marshal's Senator's print No. 969, in which he speaks of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please silence the conversation. Please.]] ...law on the wheels of the country housewives. The Act contains solutions giving the Circles a legal personality to the hostess. The Act sets out the forms and principles of voluntary association in the circles of rural hostesses, their setting-up and organisation. Around the village hostess is to be voluntary, independent of government administration and local self-government units, self-government, social organization of village residents. The Circle will be supervised by the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in cooperation with the representative of the Government for Agriculture. small and medium-sized enterprises. Around rural hostess is to represent interests and work to improve the socio-occupational situation of rural women and their families and to support rural development. The details of the appointment and registration of the wheels are recorded in print No. 969, in the act. The Senate Committee has heard information from a representative of the Government. The chairman of the Senate Committee, Mr Jerzy Chróścikowski, proposed seven amendments, which were accepted, and received recognition from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission recommends that this law be adopted with amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u7	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u8	Mr. Senator, as I listened to you, I had the impression that the circles of the country housewives had not been there so far, and now they're coming up. As far as I know, they already have a long tradition. So I'd like to know what's going on. What's with the bill? What's the point of changing something that works?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u9	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u10	As I said in my speech, the village hostess is to be a voluntary organization, independent of government administration. Yeah, it's all working up to now. But the wheels are supposed to have legal personality. This is to be organized in some way, structured, because the rural housewives' wheels are working in part today. on the basis of associations and have legal personality conferred by the court, some of the wheels operate under the auspices of the trade union of machinery rings. At the moment, those wheels that want to benefit from the aid, including the state... The government is preparing a funding programme for the rural hostel circles and the government is committed to this order. It will be based on the fact that these wheels will be registered with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and practically there they will be able to apply for money, funds for their activities. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u11	Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about whether there has been a public consultation on this bill. Have any members of the rural hostess circles been asked what they think of such a form of organizing their lives? Well, it's hard to organize a life without asking him. Do you have that knowledge? Were there discussions at the committee meeting on this subject?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u13	I think that the first part of the question will be answered by the Minister, because the government is responsible for the public consultation, but as far as the latter part is concerned, I must tell you that I have participated in various pre-election meetings and I saw that the rural housewives' circles were pleased that they would be able to function in such a way that they would be able to apply for funds for their activities. [[Can I have another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u14	Wait a minute. Now you're asking Senator Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u15	If I understand the senator correctly, it's going to be like this: these circles of country housewives who want to go into the agency's custody, they're going to get the money, and those who won't want to go through, they're not going to get the money. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u16	Right. [[Chairman of the National Council of the Bernadetta German Housewives: No...]] [[Yes?]] Well, that's how it's written in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u17	I'm the one asking you why? Is it that the social movement, which, by the way, exists, I don't know, for decades, 50 years... [[President of the Bernadetta German National Council for Rural Hostels: 150 years.]] Oh, 150 years... [[President of the Bernadetta German National Council of Rural Hostels: Yes, 150 years old.]] ...150 years... And whether you need to support this movement anyway, it doesn't matter in which formula It works, I'm telling myself, because it's a government agency. And, in a way, corrupt? Because it's like, if you come to us, you get the money, and if you don't, you don't. Is that what this is about? Do you think it's okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u18	Too far-reaching are these, you might say, the senator's insinuations. I'm sorry I used that word, but... Well, you have the right to express such opinions. I am convinced that the activities carried out in this way, i.e. that the wheels will be registered with the agricultural modernisation agency and will be able to apply for funds... I think it's the right thing to do. That's my view.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u19	You're asking questions, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur in the context of the opinion of our Legislative Bureau, which makes it clear here that the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of this proposed law infringes the constitutional order referred to in Article. 58th Constitution, Art. 59, in Article 59, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12. Consequently, the proposal for such a law really interferes strongly with constitutional order. What is the opinion, what is the assessment in this matter, in the context of the statement that this law is unconstitutional? [[It was at the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u22	As a member of the agricultural committee... the senator didn't raise this problem. I have to answer that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator didn't bring it up, that wasn't at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u23	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u24	Were there any reservations at the committee's meeting, the violation of Conventions 97 and 108 on Freedom of Association, the issue of interference by administrative authorities that money is trying to break union solidarity, the right to coalition notabene? This is because it is taken out of an existing relationship, WZRKiOR, part of this relationship, it is transformed into a completely different organization, of a different nature, and it is offered money... [[Mr. Senator, the question is, not the grade. The grades are in the discussion. Ask me a question.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, you're very cultural, but the question is... [[Ask me a question.]] Was there a violation of the convention at the committee meeting? That was the question, and I'm supporting it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u25	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u26	No violations of the convention have been considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u27	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there any discussion during the committee's deliberations about the possibility of ladies' association in the circles of country hostesses only in one circle? I'm asking because this bill imposes an obligation to get together in one circle. Imagine that the largest village in Poland has 12 thousand inhabitants. Tell me how you imagine that 5,000 women It is organized in one circle of country hostesses and is to carry out any activity. I think you realize that communities are different. It is often the case that people gather in smaller areas, a few streets can combine some tradition, some relationships, and sometimes within the local community there are conflicts. So forcing citizens, a citizen, to get together within a single circle of country hostels... Don't you think it's an abuse? It's also a de facto fracture of the article, I think. 31 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which speaks among others. about freedom of association of Poles within NGOs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u29	One more question? [[No, that's enough.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u30	I just want to point out one fact, that as the rapporteur of the committee, I should not be making my own opinions, but I must report what was at the committee meeting. This law is not, you can say, the idea of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. This is a government law, which is why I think the Minister will be the right person to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u31	You're asking Senator Kilian a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Rural hostels' circles operate in 2 structures: agricultural circles and associations. The removal from the farm circles... No problem. But how do you imagine that in the case of an association that's in the register, in the National Court Register? Who will apply for registration? Will the court go for it? What reason would there be to end this association?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u34	I think the government has solutions because there is indeed a problem here. It may be an association that currently has legal personality and, in order to register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, must apply for a re-entering the list of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation also being, I don't know... getting or seeking legal personality. It's complicated matter, but this case is not impossible to solve. I think it might actually be very simple, because when someone has legal personality, they go to the agency and the agency kind of automatically recognizes... Yes, I suspect that this will be the case with the Agency recognising this legal personality and entering the entity in the register.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u35	You're asking Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u36	I'm a bit of a reference here to what Senator Kilian said, because based on these previous questions, I have this question. As far as legal personality is concerned, it has to do with... Do I understand that if an entity is to receive funds, it must have legal personality? So the question is, do I understand this correctly? It's one thing. Second thing. There was concern about supervision in the questions. We know that every registered association also has oversight rights. Nobody protested, no one claimed it was a bad thing. Am I getting this right? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u37	Senator Wind understands that very well. In fact, in order for the wheel to be formed, there must be 10 ladies who want to put this wheel on. They shall apply to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture with a request to be entered in the register. All this is described in the bill. So this is how it's supposed to look. They acquire legal personality and can then act under the Act, which is included in print No. 969. Of course, they can also function on old principles, i.e. they can have legal personality and do not register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture or Agricultural Circles. The bill doesn't rule that out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u38	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u39	Thank you very much. I, first of all, would like to ask why this is happening. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? That on that very date, that is, around the election campaign, is this bill coming up? Did you discuss this and do you see any connection in the fact that this bill appears at that date, around the election or not? That's the first question. And the second question is: why does it suddenly, out of the blue, appear as a body supervising the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Senator Wind was talking about all the associations being subject to someone. In that case, the normal association procedure should be followed and the supervisory authority should be the Minister of Agriculture. And here comes the agency. Did you talk at the committee meeting about why the agency should be the entity in which these wheels are to be registered?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u40	Mr. Senator, as a freshly baked folklore, I want to say one thing: indeed... [[Thank you.]] You're welcome. I want to answer that somehow. Indeed, this bill appeared in the election area, but it had nothing to do with the election. I know that the discussion on this subject in my political area has been going on for a long time, because, as we can see, the circles of rural hostels are very beautifully integrated into the landscape of the Polish village, into what the government plans to do, in the development of the Polish village, but also in the promotion of the culture and heritage of the Polish village. And that's why this law was created to provide funds that would allow ladies, women presenting their achievements and our cultural heritage, to present themselves even more beautiful, even better, even nicer, and that would give opportunities for the development of ladies organised in all kinds, as we said earlier, of legal forms, that is, for this activity to develop. And as for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture... Indeed, it is what Senator Borowski noted, the government agency and the government have a program, they have specific objectives. In view of the above, there is no contradiction, there is nothing to prevent government objectives from being drawn up by a government which has a certain concept, a vision of state development, and thus funds being allocated to development, to activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u41	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u42	Senator rapporteur, you said, by mistake, that 10 women or women register... But the question is something else. Is this way of writing Because the law states that a member of the rural housewives' circle can be anyone, does it mean that the government has entered into the actual implementation of the law on anti-violence that introduces social sex? If there's gonna be a man and a woman in the village house, then the sex will disappear. Is that what happened? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Sir, you've gone into such a complexity, you can say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u43	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Wait a minute. I would like to ask the person who acts as a guest not to exceed his authority. Guests have a designated place. They shall not be allowed to take part in the deliberations. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u44	The Lord has entered into such a matter that I am not familiar with. That's why it's hard for me to answer you. I think that in the beauty of the Polish village there are also ladies who live in the country. And we're happy, and we're happy that something like this is happening. And this support the government plans to allocate to the development of this beauty and cultural heritage of women who work and work for the countryside and in the countryside.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u45	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the registration of the village housewives' circles under the legal procedure. That is, the law refers to this. This is indicated by Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1) that the initiative to set up a group of rural hostesses may involve 10 adult villagers who thus adopt the statute of the circle and choose the founding committee. Meanwhile, Mr. Senator, according to the association law, at the moment seven people can register the association. Above all, I am talking about an even number of votes. When there is a conflict, there is a difference of opinion, then how will it be settled if 5 people are e.g. in favour of a given wheel management and 5 against? Who will decide then? Don't you think it's worth taking advantage of the Associations Act and moving certain records to the ground of the Association Act? That's the first question. And the second, also in this context. Why should the registration authority be the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation rather than the national judicial register? That's what we've been talking about. We're introducing an entity that doesn't have any experience. That's part of what you've been talking about, as I understand it, is that it's supposed to be the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The government wants to implement a program. But all I'm talking about is registration. It's not like there's anything wrong with the country housewives' wheels if they have to... You're saying that with 150 years of experience in the village housekeepers' circle in a moment, if you don't implement this bill, they'll stop working, and they'll be hit by a cataclysm. Well, I can't understand it, but let's assume I understand. So why isn't the registration authority a KRS, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which hasn't done so far? The question is whether he has an appropriate team of people to handle this, a team of lawyers, and what is the correlation with other entities. And last question, if you're a marshal... [[Please.]] ...will allow you not to take up time later. The question is about wealth. This law refers to the fact that the property of the village housewives after its dissolution becomes the property of the members. Neither the Foundations Act nor the Associations Act promote such a provision. There's no record of that. Why would you think that? What are you playing? What's your point? What's the target here? You want to register, take it away? What... [[What are you playing? Well, you said it ugly.]] Excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u47	I'm asking for an answer. [[So what's this all about, Senator? Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u48	I'll give you an answer. You quoted the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 [[Yes.]] ...but there's an art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which says that the village housewives can operate on the basis of a model statute. And the statute will certainly describe how problems will have to be resolved when it comes to voting. Now, the second topic that you've raised about the KRS, why yes and no different... I think that this question will be answered by the applicant, the initiator of the bill, the Minister. However, you asked one more question, or perhaps the third question, concerning the property of the village housewives' circle, which will be solved. I think it's an honest solution. If there were people who made the wheel and worked for it all the time, then the wealth, if they want to solve this wheel, let it be divided among them. Of course, later these ladies or the people who make this wheel will have to pay the tax. Those people who worked for the development of this wheel and raised wealth, they'll just share that property. And that's it. They worked socially and devoted their own time, so it's fair and reasonable. That's the only opinion I can give. [[I'd like to...]] [[You want me to be more specific?]] [[Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Only, Mr. Senator, this property is mentioned only in this model statute proposed by the legislator, there is nothing in the bill. So the question now is, isn't there going to be... what kind of bill will the distribution of this property be subject to? Like I said, there's no record of that in the association and foundation laws.]] The senators in their inquiry did not ask at the last meeting of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u49	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u50	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to thank Senator Pupa for calling me a newly baked folker. Yeah, I'm a freshly baked folklore, so in my question, I can make a mistake. Excuse me. [[I'll be understanding.]] I'd like to ask the senator about the following matter. It has been reported in 2014 that rural housewives can apply for grants and grants and have legal personality. If that were true, this would mean that this main idea of adopting this law, which appears in the explanatory memorandum, concerns something that already functions. Can you explain to me, then, whether it's really what I'm saying, or is it because I'm a newly baked folklore that I'm underinformed? I'd appreciate it if the senator could explain it to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u51	Of course, the rural hostels could apply for funding under the RDPs, and there were no obstacles to this. At this point, as I am saying, the government has proposed other detailed arrangements for the functioning of the rural hostel circles, as enshrined in this law. We can agree or disagree, we can contest this bill or agree with it, nothing more. It is a law giving an opportunity to create as if a new entity, which will be called a village hostel and which will be able to obtain additional funds in the manner set out in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u52	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! On this point, I will ask, Mr Senator, if today even restrictive European Union rules allow such a person as near rural hostess to benefit from the money from the Rural Development Programme, which prevents such a condition as is in force... It's about keeping this status quo. Would this be in opposition to those, I understand, noble and valuable proposals from the government of the Republic of Poland? The idea is not to reorganize the lives of people associated with rural hostess circles, but to make use of this 150-year-old achievement and address those programs that the government is planning to redistribute public, national... If the European Union accepts this order and condition, then why does the government of the Republic of Poland forcefully want to record in some way the circles of rural hostesses? And it's not through the National Court Register, it's the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which I don't know why It is to be kept in the records, in the personal data of individual members of the rural hostel circles. Mr. Senator, what's the idea? Very simple, but important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u55	Various entities have insight into our data. The modernisation agency also has an insight into its beneficiaries and this is natural. There are words that I think have often been and are used, such as pluralism or diversification. Well, in this case, we can talk about a kind of broader action: we give the circles of rural hostess a chance to function, which will be brought together within agricultural circles; the circles of rural hostesses will function on the basis of the Associations Act. The government also gives this opportunity, you can say, to co-operate with the rural hostel groups, which will operate on the basis of the law that is being conducted today. This isn't some kind of limitation, it's not some narrowing, it's giving an opportunity within these, you can say, 3 legal possibilities of functioning can function, act. It's about giving you a chance to grow. We're not limiting anything here, but we're giving it a chance. In this case, no one will feel either humiliated or marginalized in any way or discriminated in any way, because everyone will have the freedom to choose freely and will be able to act. And that's not what anyone might be afraid of, strictly. political, because the agency is... Well, of course, the agency is a government agenda, but if the housewives apply and meet the simple criteria, they'll get that money for their business. Let me remind you that it is included in the state budget of 90 million to operate... It's not a small amount of money. It's nice that these ladies will get the money, because this money will also go to the country, to the development of the Polish village. Let us remind you that the village is not just agriculture, it is not just farmers. The villagers are e.g. teachers, professors live in the country, etc. The village is gaining, you can say, a beautiful landscape. Municipalities, authorities, starosts, marshals take care of the development of the Polish village, the government is the same. And that is why we are going in this direction to make this Polish village beautiful, so that the village is not, you can say, a province, only that it has a chance also to benefit from the achievements of the state and economic development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u56	One more question for Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u57	Last one. Senator, you're talking about pluralism. So what makes you think that the rural housewives' circles today are in any way marginalized, discriminated against when the draft law was not consulted? How do you know that? After all, the government did not ask this environment, to which it wants to organise life in Poland, whether it is discriminated or not. Wouldn't it be better to ask the representatives of the groups of country hostels in Poland whether they are discriminated against or not? In my opinion, since 150 years are working and doing well, they are not discriminated against. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u59	We're talking, you can say, about two different things. You have your own idea, I'm here to lecture on what happened on Tuesday at the Senate committee meeting. Pluralism is that we give different groups a chance to function for the common good. And this is a simple example of this. And we don't limit it, we don't discriminate against anyone here. We're giving it a chance. The government... Well, what was he supposed to consult on, on the other hand? Why consult, ask... This is a new law that opens up new opportunities. New opportunities and nothing more. And it also points to direction. The government has the right, as a financial manager, to act on behalf of its citizens... He pointed out that he would give 90 million PLN a year for the functioning of the rural hostels' circles, which would operate under this law. And that's it. [[And is it pluralism, Senator, that without asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u60	Mr. Senator Slugocki, what you're doing is actually a discussion. Sign up, please. [[Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Right now, the question has been interrupted. There's another person on the list. If you want to ask any more questions, I'll write you down. [[No, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Spider. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u61	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. For more than 21 years, I have been a tycoon and an old lady and I know the role these circles play in the country housewives. And many times people wanted to support them financially, with little money, but they couldn't because, well, the rules didn't allow it. We were up to something, but I reserve that it was a positive conspiracy, that some prizes or whatever we gave them for this activity and thus supported them. But why couldn't you just admit it in a simple, clear, open way? I'm the one who's the one who's Or as the council of the municipality, or as the council of the county, or as the governor of these measures for activity, small resources, but how are these support wheels? Will this bill now cause the mayor, mayor or the governor, if he has a wish, whether the council of the municipality or the county will be able to transfer a couple of zlotys for this purpose? Will they be able to do it legally? Even if that's all they can do right now, I'm going to think this bill is very positive. Even in this respect, I'm no longer talking about the others you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u62	Indeed, sometimes local governments were faced with such a difficult situation when it was necessary to perform the equilibrystika, which consisted in finding such legal opportunities as to help... well, or even cover the costs. 'Cause there was a show going out there somewhere. or even were of different kinds, e.g. Contests... These circles were also engaged in the promotion of the commune, well, you have to say directly: the rural hostels' circles were such a showcase of the village, but not only the villages, because also the communes, the county. And that's beautiful. It's very noble and kind. But this law allows only one thing: that the wheels will be able to raise money from the agricultural modernisation agency. You don't talk about municipalities or you talk about municipalities. So it stays the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u63	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki with us. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u64	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for being able to attend today's session. We're talking about the law on farm housewives' wheels, print number 969. The Act sets out the forms and principles of voluntary association of rural hostel circles, their setting-up and organisation. Around the village hostess is to be voluntary and independent of government administration and local self-government units, self-government, social organization of village residents. The Circle will be supervised by the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in cooperation with the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises. Around rural hostess is to represent interests and work to improve the socio-occupational situation of rural women and their families and to support rural development. Many tasks have been defined in the Act, as well as solutions concerning the property of the wheel. The bill is to enter into force immediately after the day of the announcement. Thank you for all the comments that have been made. The law creates new opportunities compared to those that exist now. We don't close anything, we don't limit anything. We are introducing opportunities that support this process of development of small homelands, and in particular the activities of rural hostels' circles. The government appreciates the role, rank, importance of ladies, rural women who cultivate both tradition and history by their work and transfer good patterns to generations ahead. We appreciate and respect all those who work for the development of rural hostels' circles. I am convinced that once the law is in place, the position of rural hostess circles will be strengthened. There are new opportunities, so let's use them. As already mentioned today, some forms of funding are changing, but there are other aspects of this issue. I understand that they raise some doubts, like any new idea, a new way to develop, to integrate small homelands. Therefore, since these issues concern certain legal decisions, please clarify the information of Mr Mariusz Gorzowski, Director of the Legal and Legislative Department. Please refer to the legal aspects outlined here, to clarify the doubts and questions raised. I'll ask the Director to fill in my information. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u65	Thank you very much. Minister, there will be questions for you now. Here, the ministers present their views on the bill. Now we're gonna ask your senators, because this is the time... Do any of you have a question for the Minister? Mr. Senator... Oh, the senators are registered. Okay, you're gonna be here in a minute. Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the longer I listened to the opposition questions, the more I learned that this bill was good and needed. That's a start-up comment. I want to understand well, and I want the audience and the audience to understand it even better. Someone who has been in associations so far will not have to change this legal form, will be able to remain in these associations. If anybody's in farming circles, they can stay in farming circles, too. And they have the opportunity to get funding as far as associations can. Yes? I'd like to get an answer from you because I'd like to know for sure. And if a wheel wants to start an association, In fact, and here, in accordance with the new law, the founding members must be 7 members, this will be able to establish an association and not act on the principle proposed by that law. Yes? [[Voice from the room: 10 people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u67	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u68	As far as the first question is concerned, the answer is: it does not have to change its legal form. This is the first case. There will be detailed information in the branches of the restructuring agency, i.e. very close, in the wheels, etc. The county offices will have plenipotentiaries and will actually be able to obtain information faster, even without undue delay. You will be able to go or call the county offices and there plenipotentiaries will be prepared to inform and provide any information. If they can't give information because new things always take some time, they'll know where to turn to ask. Not seven people, but 10 people will be able to start a circle. Well, I'm gonna straighten out that information. Thank you for your support, too. These are new ways of doing things, new ways of doing things. I think we are introducing regulations here that will work well, build, integrate and strengthen rural communities. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jan Filip Libicki, and then you will be Senator Marian Poslednik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u70	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions that the Senator rapporteur kind of dropped on you, saying that this was not the case at the committee meeting. The first question: why should the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture be the supervisor of these associations? Usually for associations it was so that it was so-called. Minister responsible. The statute of the foundation or association states that the minister of culture or the minister of agriculture is the right minister. There's a government agency here all of a sudden, and we don't know why. And that's the first thing. And the second question is the deadline. We were in the pre-election, electoral period, now we are in the post-election period, although the second tour in some places will be. Is there any correlation between the deadline for implementing this law and election deadlines or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u71	Thank you. When it comes to why it is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, I, Senator, can answer this simply: why not? Of course, different options can be considered. It may be the National Agricultural Support Centre, but it has only 1 seat in the voivodship. It could be an agricultural advisory centre, it could be a rural household. We can consider different options, including those you mentioned. We are looking for diversity and diversification. First of all, we are looking for coherence, so that this kind of action takes place closest to the places we want to reach. The organizations of these ladies, the rural hostels, are very local in nature, and if we send them back to the ministries, to the central units... Well, I can see how it's gonna work. It's like local support. Everyone knows where the restructuring agency is, everyone has been there many times. In order to carry out this registration process efficiently, it is necessary to be prepared, not learning only and in some time able to serve these people institution. This is an efficient, well-organized, well-functioning institution that can put in such a fast path to make it work. First of all, we want to be effective. Mr. Senator, we want to be effective. We'll see if there's any problems here, then we'll be looking for other solutions. As far as the deadline is concerned, the expectations are that this can be implemented as soon as possible. I'm pretty sure about that. Many writings, letters, also testify to this. There was talk of consultation, and there was a question. Well, sometimes we have so many meetings that... Members and senators, in particular the Law and Justice, hold tens of hundreds of meetings in rural environments. So how many more do we need? I can say this: it was a social consultation in rural environments that are sensitive to these issues. You want us to keep saying that, do you want us to consult again? Somewhere there is a limit to this participation, this participation. I am convinced that... and there were also many letters to the Ministry and to the Prime Minister to implement it. Consultations shall be carried out in different forms. Do they always have to follow a certain path? Not necessarily. It is important that the laws meet social expectations, and I think we are dealing with this in this situation. [[President of the National Association of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations Władysław Serafin:...Institution, Minister.]] The deadline for adoption of the bill... Well, you might think so, but tell me, Mr. Senator, which is a good term. Something's gonna happen later, something's gonna happen sooner. Well, it coincided in time. If there's been a consultation since it's been a while, there's no point dragging it out. Well, it did turn out to be, as you say, but it is the third year when the Law and Justice have an influence on government, and I think we should look at a process that has grown to make this law work, not say, well, the deadlines have coincided. You can always say: why not later, why not earlier, why now? In this case, the process has matured to introduce these solutions. I'd still tell the senator that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u72	Thank you very much. [[President of the National Association of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations Władysław Serafin: We protest because...]] Excuse me, you don't have a voice. Excuse me, sir, Mr... [[President of the National Association of Farmers, Wheels and Agricultural Organizations Władysław Serafin: But the heart hurts... Sorry.]] Sir, you're in the Senate. You're a guest, you don't have a voice. I'm asking you to remain serious about the Senate. You're welcome. Senator Spider. Then Mr. Senator Borowski and Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 is such a provision: In the territory of one village one circle of rural hostels may be established within the meaning of this Act. I have a question for you. There might be a problem here when it comes to big villages. For example, I live in the village of Zawoja, which is over 100 km2 and has 6.5 thousand inhabitants. There's the Upper Zawoja, the Lower Zawoja and the Center Zawoja. And I suppose if there was one wheel here... And there are even 2 wheels because... there are villages where it is, say, the upper village and the lower village, i.e. is the name of the village and then the word "top" or "bottom." And they're kind of divided. And there are 2 wheels, one wheel is in the lower part, and the other one is in the upper part. Maybe there's an amendment here to make it possible for these villages to be able to... Because in a small village there will certainly not be 2 wheels, but there are such large villages where there can be 2 or even 3 wheels. For example, there is a village of Kozy near Bielsko-Biała, which has probably 11 thousand inhabitants. Well, there could be two or three wheels in such a large village. Would you be in favour of making an amendment to make it possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u74	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: I agree, I have doubts about this, too. They were raised, they said it could be perceived so that why only one wheel, not all wheels... intent... No, nobody is perfect, no one's made it. And that's where we agree. I share that view. I also had such concerns about this case, and I raised this issue in my own conversations. Let me put it this way: for today, the idea of the legislator is to integrate so as not to multiply the wheels. Let's look at it the other way. They could create artificial wheels. This medal has two sides. They could be created artificially. Wheels to reach for backup. So we've adopted a pretty rough rule that there's one wheel, but the intention is to integrate the wheels, to build a community around certain goals, not to get distracted, to create the possibility that these wheels are now being created over measure. And that's the main message. This is a bill, so that I do not rule out that perhaps after some time, I think that after a year of its operation, after the first experiences we will look for other solutions. Maybe we can make a decision in some areas that involve the number of residents. I wouldn't rule that out. But introduce support possibilities and differentiate that not for one wheel... Well, you had to accept something, and that's the compromise. Compromise is rotten and they never satisfy anyone. But I'm convinced that right now, this is a solution that gives us some status quo, not distractions, and causes confusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Excuse me, Senator Spokesperson. There you go. Mr. Senator Libicki Did he sign up too? [[Yeah, I volunteered, too.]] Good. And Senator Borowski. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the Senator rapporteur said that the issue of the violation of the constitutional order of this law was not raised... He wasn't moved because of me, that's right, but he was raised at the committee meeting. Since we have the opinion of our Legislative Office, which clearly shows the places, points where this order in this law is violated, I would like to know the opinion of the Minister. I remember that during this discussion there were proposals to reflect on whether the amendments made could not be mitigated, so to speak, violations of the Constitution in this law. So, what's the minister's opinion after these two days? Are there any proposals from the Ministry? What about this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u77	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u78	Mr. Senator, Mrs. Marshal, here's what I'm gonna say. We have carefully looked at all the comments that have been made by the Senate Legislative Office, and we do not share the view that this is unconstitutional. In addition, in our justification, which we sent to the Legislative Office, we found that currently working wheels will be able to act on the existing rules. About this constitutionality in detail... About these legal matters, if the senator expects it, and your marshal will allow this opportunity, he will be able to say precisely Director Gorzowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u79	Now Mr. Senator Libicki. Please. [[Voice from the room: I...]] You wanted to ask? [[No, no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u80	Mrs Marshal, Minister, I was very happy to accept what you said, i.e. that it was subordinated to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, because it is a matter of decentralisation, it is about the circles of rural hostess being closer to the supervisor. I am very pleased that the Minister is in favour of decentralisation, it is quite unusual for the Government of Law and Justice. Then I'll hold you to your word, and in other cases, when you're centralizing different institutions, I'll remind you. [[Question, Senator, question.]] To conclude, I would like to ask you if you are in favour of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u81	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this compliment, I accept it as a whole. Of course I am in favour of participation, participation in the local community. I think people who know me know that half my professional life or more I've just devoted myself to building local partnerships and that there's real activity and ability in the countryside. That's what nobody in my résumé... Thank you for pointing that out, and I have the opportunity to promote myself a little bit on this occasion. So that everyone who knows me will definitely confirm... There are senators in this room who know this very well. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Mr. Senator, I remember, but I promised Senator Borowski a vote earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u83	Mr. Senator Libicki, the Minister has already said that there are e.g. the limits of the consultation. So there are limits to decentralisation, and if it comes down to it, you're gonna get that answer. And I have the following question for the Minister. Namely, the case revolves around money. So far, maybe now. 'Cause this bill still hasn't come into force... How are the rural housewives funded today? Who gives them money? Is there any government money, if that's what you mean? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u85	Thank you. I think that the functioning of the rural hostel circles is not the subject of the law, and I do not see the need for us to refer now to this reality. That's how I'd like to address it. We decide on the law on the circles of rural hostesses, we evaluate it and I would like to concentrate on it. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u86	Thank you. [[But...]] Do you want to ask? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: If it is necessary]] Then maybe just in writing... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki:...I will refer to this in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u87	No, no. I'm very sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but this is a key issue, because we still hear that thanks to the fact that the rural housewives' wheels will be supervised by the agency, they will receive government money. So what I'm saying is, are they getting government money now or are they getting government money? It's what this change is for. And the Minister says, "No, this is not the subject of the law." Well, he's the subject of the bill. [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] But I would ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u88	Good. Does the Minister have anything to add or your answers... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I will provide written information.]] Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u89	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I thank you for these words of appreciation to all those who have engaged in the development of the women's movement, including those in the form of rural hostels' circles. In a sense, I feel like a beneficiary of the Minister's thanks, because I have been dealing with this issue for 10 years, the problem of women being able to benefit from EU funds, namely the RDPs. On the other hand, I would also like to confirm that the Minister was very involved before he became Minister. I don't want to say that I don't now, but before that, I can confirm it. In all these activities aimed at developing the activity of local environments. But I have specific questions about this bill. This law provides for the possibility of running a rural business activity by the parks of the hostess... [[Here you go, Mr. Minister...]] Now, here's my question. Will women who will carry out economic activities be able to earn in the workings of rural hostels by doing business? I know the profit is to be divided. But will they be able to earn money by doing this kind of business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u90	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u91	Mr. Senator, thank you for your warm words. To answer your question straightaway. I'm taking advantage of the presence of my lawyers, confirming that yes, they'll be able to make money. I would like to stress this with all my power, also using the confirmation by the Director of the Legal and Legislative Department.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u93	Thank you very much. In view of this answer, the Minister raises another question, which is related to this grant. Because if it's a donation to the village hostel circle and these women can make money, it's going to be a problem, in particular, as Senator Spajk says here, that a village with, say, a few thousand inhabitants will have one circle, and a village with 150 inhabitants or 200 inhabitants will also have one near the hostel. So there is a question of some kind of equality of access to subsidies from the state budget in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u94	Of course that's always gonna be the case. I have already said that we have been looking for solutions that will be a compromise, and that was the compromise. The rule was accepted: one village One wheel, no differentiation. Which doesn't mean, like I said, after some time of operation... That's a good point, but I think at this point we should let this law live, and if we do, let's look at how it works, and then let's make changes. At this point, I don't see the need to give up that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u95	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. One more question. I had to leave for a while. I don't know if it's gone. Do we have any knowledge of the number of registered groups of rural hostels in associations and agricultural circles today? [[Director of Legal and Public Procurement Department at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture Anna Hurry-Kłak: 26 thousand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u97	Twenty-six thousand, right? Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u98	According to the information I have, Senator, there are about 26,000 wheels. [[Thank you very much. Are there any more questions...]] [[All of them? Registered and in farming circles, and as an association, right?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u99	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, sir. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you.]] [[Senator Libicki...]] Yeah, I got it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Marek Borowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Jan Filip Libicki was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator. [[Senator Senator Spokesman signed up, too.]] Yes. Senator Senator Spokesperson's signing up, too. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again in this term, I feel like I've stood here before and talked a little bit about it, although we are talking about the circles of the country hostess for the first time. I feel like I was speaking on a similar subject when you guys set up the National Freedom Institute. The Civil Society Support Centre. Then I talked about how the Tsar Peter I was driving around Europe and how much he liked that people in England were discussing politics in the salons. When he came back, he put in place a ban, which was called "The Forced Organisation of Voluntary Political Meetings." I was saying that this idea was, in my opinion, the creators of the National Freedom Institute. The Civil Society Support Centre. I feel the same way today. I can say that in my previous term of office I held 347 meetings with voters for four years. I have a similar pace in this term of office. I think there's been over 500 of them. A large part of these meetings are meetings with the circles of the country housewives. And to be honest, I didn't hear anyone complaining about any problems in the operation, financing and all that kind of current stuff. Moreover, when I asked a question about the law on RDPs, in principle I received confirmation that there is a possibility to finance the circles of rural hostels. There is no need to introduce any new mechanisms here. Of course, the Minister presented himself here as a supporter of decentralisation and pluralism. I welcome this with great joy, because it is a rare phenomenon in a government camp during this term of office. But maybe the swallow in the Minister's person makes spring? I hope so. I'd like that very much. I think, in fact, that this initiative, this undertaking, had less noble goals. The deadline for submitting an initiative and proceding a bill that somehow coincides with the date of the local elections seems to me... Unfortunately, the experience of the last three years has taught me that this is not random. I think... As a newly baked folksman, I am a frequent guest of public television. The last week before the election I had to in every program, and sometimes they were two per day, resisting hurricane attacks on PSL, not only from the Law and Justice side, but also from public television journalists, which has been the norm for 3 years. It seems to me that the procedated act is another element used on the front against the Polish People's Party. And from here on out, I'm gonna allow myself to protest. That's the way I want to say it. Of course you're talking. It's such a great pick. The circles of rural hostels operating on a different basis than the new rules that you are introducing may continue to function because there is freedom and pluralism. But let us be honest: it is very often that pluralism is decided by the one who has the money. And if there's one decision-making center that's gonna have money And the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is an institution that has money, and it's quite small, by all means, when small entities and small circles will see that they don't get it, and the neighbor gets it, but it has to be said that under the rigor, it will happen what happened on the occasion of the so-called. the recovery of the justice system that the current government has introduced. Yeah. There was talk of a freezing effect there, wasn't there? The fact that the judge may not be pressured, but that the overall atmosphere will make him think twice before making a specific decision. As for the issues of the rural hostels' circles, and those who are subject to the supervision of the ARiMR, and those who do not do so, for those who do not, also such a freezing effect will occur in my opinion. And I'm sorry to say this, but I think the inventor Maybe you're not the minister. The freezing effect is what they're hoping for. In view of the fact that I believe that this is the element at the front of the fight against the Polish People's Party currently ruling, i.e. that I think you are hoping that there will be a freezing effect in relation to the rural hostels' circles, I hereby allow myself to submit a proposal to reject this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u101	Mr. Senator, the motion should be made in writing. [[Yes, but by the end of the debate. I'll write it right now.]] Okay, I'll wait. Although I regret to accept your request because... [[Okay, okay, here we go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give myself the floor. Recently I organized a large conference in the Senate with the circles of rural hostesses, with ladies who came from all over Poland. You had invitations. The ladies are unanimously asking for this bill to be adopted. They say her records are very, very good for them. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I will accept this request if the senator lodges it in writing. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Now I'm going to ask Senator Andrzej Spider to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! As far as I'm concerned, I will not deal with these war strategies, this board game, this war that is taking place in Poland on the subject of elections. Before, after, or ever. I would like to express great respect from the Senate's stand, great appreciation for the circles of the country housewives, and with the utmost appreciation to thank them. I myself am a resident of a very large village, Zawya at the foot of Babia Góra. And being an old man and a gate for more than 21 years and being in parliament for 8 years, with these rural wheels I met and met practically, you can say every week, and sometimes 2 or 3 times a week, as necessary. And what these ladies do, how they work, deserves only admiration and appreciation. Koneczny Feliks, who divided civilization, said such a remarkable sentence that tradition is the paternal bone of civilization, that each generation does not start, as he says, ab ovo, from zero, but is based on tradition, based on those values that are passed on. And I think that's the theme of these ordinary circles of country hostesses where simple women work... They have a great share in the fact that one or another civilization In our case, it is, as we know, Christian civilization, Roman civilization, Mediterranean civilization... They support her deeply. And you can safely say that thanks to the activity they carry out, it exists, continues and develops. In many cases they work at the expense of their time, their money. And they pass on this song, this music, the recipes, the costumes, the customs, the customs. Everything that is the basis of our civilization, the basis of our identity, they preserve. They keep their faith. That's all it is about us. I also know what the problems were when we We wanted a pair of gold in a simple, unambiguous way to allocate and transfer. Well, you couldn't, because the rules wouldn't allow it, because it was because of that. They complained to me a few times that they had made cakes and wanted to make some gold on it to pass on to any purpose. They were already worried about whether there'd be a checkup from the IRS in a minute, or if there was a gentleman from the IRS, because we don't know what's gonna happen, how they're gonna be cleared. There have been cases where they've come to me with such a problem. If this law simplifies this action if it allows them to receive support from local governments or to be able to act freely, then this law on my part deserves full support. However, as I said, these different gaming strategies and getting her involved in this policy... Well, I'm not talking about it right now. But once again, if she meets these challenges, she deserves to be supported. Finally, I would like once again to address the circles of rural hostesses, for their actions, for their sacrificial sacrifice, for their work on this unifying society. The common rural, communal society For participating in various projects, in various activities, for embellishing various, say, events on the scale of the village or the commune, or on the scale of the parish and coloring of all this... It all becomes so beautiful and valuable. Therefore, these wheels deserve great respect and great support from the state. And if this bill is anything in this direction He'll make it positive, and I respectfully accept it and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u104	Madam Marshal, Minister, Senator and Senators! Thank you very much for this initiative of the law, which will give the opportunity to operate and support in the smallest Polish village... As I heard, we have 26 thousand rural hostels in Poland. About the principles of these wheels Legal, formal, granting of grants in agricultural circles I don't have any knowledge, I admit it. But I do know how difficult it is to run an association or a foundation. Apart from the fact that all legal formalities need to be dealt with in the departments of the National Court Register, which are in large cities, which is already a barrier, because you have to go there, get there and find this court... But it's once in a while, at registration or at some... And in computer age, it's not that much of a problem. The problem is running an association or a foundation. These duties of reunions, general assemblies, resolutions... If the funds are bigger, but even smaller, you have to have an accountant at your fingertips to settle this professionally, according to the rules that are in force today, you have to have a lawyer at your fingertips sometimes. For such small communities it is really a challenge and an insurmountable duty. There were questions here, too. Maybe I'll answer one of Senator Slugock's questions right away. For this distribution of assets in case of need. The law here is long known to all those who take care of foundations and associations. I take care of them, too. Regardless of the principles of setting up a foundation or association, any such newly registered entity must have a specific statute, and in this statute is always required to make arrangements for the division of what will be with the assets of the foundation or association if they cease their activities. And it depends on the founders, so that there is no problem here, whether it will be passed on to the state or to any other charity opportunity, such concerns and concerns have no basis. If any of the wheels e.g. operating at agricultural rings or as an association would like to register and enter into a simpler form of obtaining and clearing grants... This was emphasized here, as well as the answer to the questions to the rapporteur's senator, as well as to the Minister, but also from the law itself. This is voluntaryity. No one's forcing anyone to do that. Do you want to act on the rules of the past? You're working. You want to change? Well, it's a bit of a struggle, but you're gonna change it, you're gonna change it. You want to make a new one? And so far, there's been no way... And the fact that the association of 7 people and here 10... given, once again, the vast amount of reporting and formal tasks that the association has every year, with the elections every 4 years, with the reunions, there are really difficult things... And here are 10 people, simple registration... I hope that it will be so, and right now I ask the government to guarantee, with all the regulations, as little trouble as possible here, that these ladies do not have to look for accountants, lawyers, even though it is not such a big problem today, it can be done... And I'm happy with this bill, because even though I live in a big city, I grew up in the countryside and went to my family's village, to my family's house, if I have some time, I even choose such longer routes because I know them, through beautiful woods, where every once in a while there are nice views... And my family home stands at the top of the glacial moraine, the frontal moraine in Łuka Mużakowski, so there are beautiful areas there. I drive myself into these villages, these are small villages where there are no structures, there's the Chief of Staff, collects taxes, every once in a while reminds me of vaccinations of dogs, and there's nothing else going on. There's a church, but even if you ladies want to do a palm contest, you have to buy these ribbons, you have to buy these bows, you have to buy some paper, and for that you need some modest means. These 3,000 are for some wheels may be measures not even that modest. But if we get into this right, it's these villages hidden in forests that have 200 inhabitants, sometimes less, sometimes more... We give them the opportunity to operate and obtain aid from the state through the nearest degrees, i.e. the municipality, then reach the relevant administrators of these grants... So this is a very good bill. Where there isn't, I'll repeat again, no structures, no Law and Justice, no PSL... There are villages where the bus doesn't come today. There's no sign of statehood at all. There's no mail in there. And they used to be. Police stations, at least one in several villages They're not here either. But we're bringing it back. And the opportunity to do business, to obtain from the Polish state the approval of this activity and the modest one for some, and for others the dream sum of PLN 3 000, it is simply a wonderful initiative and for all of this I would like to thank On behalf of the locals. Even on behalf of their schoolmates who have a band of songs and dances, they color all the picnics I know because I'm invited there. And all the folk festivals. There's a few of them in there. They don't have any help out of nowhere. Now they can ask for someone else, there could be dozens of them. Someone here doubted there was a man. They sing and dance, and they play accordionist and drummer, and so do they. It would be good if the color and tradition that Mr Spider spoke so beautifully about were preserved. Finally, one more request is that when constructing all these accounts and formal matters, remember that there should be as little as possible of them as possible to be as simple as possible. Then this bill will do its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The organized activities of rural women already have a long history, a history of more than 150 years, which began in Pomerania and Wielkopolska, at the time when agricultural circles were formed. The activity of women in these organizations has steadily increased, their participation has increased. I come from a constituency where this story is already over 50 years old. The famous priest, Fr. Wawrzyniak, who was one of the more active priests who participated in the movement of agricultural rings in the second half of the 19th century, is such a flagship figure. In Wielkopolska, in our region it is a symbol of the movement of agricultural circles and the participation of women later in organized structures working for rural communities. The purpose of this law, I think, is noble and noble, but the measure which is a law which is intended to lead to it has a flaw, a flaw in the fact that it violates constitutional order. According to the Senate's Legal Office, I would like to point out: "Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 provides that one circle of rural hostels may be established in one village within the meaning of the opinion of the law. In the mouth, on the other hand. 5 of the same article is reserved that you can also be a member of only one wheel of rural hostels. The provisions cited limit constitutional freedom of association as set out in Article. 12, Art. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 59 (1) (a) 1st Constitution. In its judgment of 3 June 1998, the Constitutional Tribunal stressed that freedom of association in trade unions should be understood as as a guarantee of unfettered union formation, voluntary accession and association participation and freedom of activity. So that this problem is kind of fundamental when it comes to the adoption of this law. It so happens that many organisations, which currently operate in the structures of agricultural rings, many of these organisations have legal personality and are registered in the National Court Register, have developed very dynamically in recent years, especially because there was already access to funds from the Sołecki Fund or, after Poland's accession to the European Union, to funds under the Rural Development Programme. And this program in the form of so-called. addressed to local initiatives dedicated to their development, Leader has liberated, through the activity of local action groups for many years already here, or has increased the movement of rural women in recent years, including because today women in the countryside are better educated and have a need to engage. This is particularly evident in the accession or often the re-organization of rural hostels by young women, which is very important for rural communities. So any support for these actions by rural women is needed as much as possible, but it can probably be done in such a way as not to violate constitutional order. I am paying tribute to all these active women here, and I hope that the amendments I have tabled will bring them to the table in a moment and will eliminate constitutional doubts, and thus we will be able to support in a constitutional manner, including those measures which the government has proposed here, the circles of rural hostels. I hope that happens. Thank you for your attention, and I'm handing over the amendments to your marshal. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u107	Signed? Signed? [[Yeah, it's signed.]] Signed. Good. Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u108	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a senator committed to upholding the law, but I'll introduce myself a little more. I am one of those many Senator Chróścikowski will listen carefully here, because his name is in this context. Who in March 1981, during the March events... And before that, in January and February, in Rzeszów and Ustrzyk we applied for freedom for trade unions. And that was the offer of the anti-communist opposition in those years. This included also the struggle for freedom for those women who worked in the then voivodship associations of circles and agricultural organizations cemented in the headquarters. And that was the offer, mostly men... However, they were involved in the strike. In Rzeszów, Usrzych and Bydgoszcz as well as in other towns Also women. The system has changed, and you don't talk about freedom, you talk about money. Prime Minister Morawiecki offered women money I don't know if it's an elegant turn for women. And conditionally, during the election campaign. And even more conditionally, you'll get, if you sign up for us, for our agency, and if you don't, you're women of a worse sort, and you don't get a grant, you don't get $3,000. I'm saying this because it's sad for me. But it's also sad for another reason. That as a senator, I have to defend those I've fought against. We didn't want voivodship relationships, circles and agricultural organizations, but we didn't take their rights to the right organizations. And they did, they changed their statutes, like... Trade Unions.Solidarity of Individual Farmers... We created for them law and freedom. Today, I have to defend these organizations, which is the irony of history. Before the violation of the law. Colleagues, when you say outside the law that they are wonderful women, how good it is that the government gives them money Not yours, notabene, when you say how little money they have, and you praise that there will be only one such circle, it really... It's not even late Gierek, it's early Stalin. Because if someone read the postulates and remembers, Mr. Senator Chróścikowski... From what did the strike start in August, which changed the system, also changed the village? It started with the fact that we demanded compliance with union convention 87 and 98, which means the right to self-organize in trade unions and organizations, with the right to determine our own statute, self-government, contributions. And you, parties and governments, beware of our rights! I'm yelling again today. Stay away from free society, Morawiecki and others! You will not build any Republic. You'll go back to what was or nothing. In this bill there are, just for the occasion of elections, such records that the relationship is to register with an agency without legal personality. You're here... Mr. Chróścikowski, where were you registering? Can you remind me? I forgot. Isn't it in court? Didn't we appeal to the court, even knowing that he was communist, with a judge in charge of the Church? Nevertheless, it was in court. Not at the Ministry of Agriculture. There was some... I don't remember all those ministers anymore. And it hurts me. But I know, I was at a harvest party, my mother was a seamstress in one before the war... They didn't get the money from the Prime Minister. I think that those women who made these harvests and these booths and who manage schools, abandoned because of their demographics, and struggled with drunkenness, not what they expected from free Poland, from expanding the sphere of freedom. Senator Czudowska says: After all, the estate is a bill, it fits everywhere... I'm talking union property. Organizations that I think... And they still don't support me. Yes, you can change that by law, Senator. Art. 20 Constitution states that only due compensation can be expropriated. And even more so, trade unions. It's their fortune. We may have an opinion of them as we believe, but they, these unions, these circles and organizations are legally recognized organizations, institutions of the Third Republic. And they can't be expropriated by an ordinary law. Like... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. Maybe this reflection is too impressive, but it's because we've come this way and we don't want to come back on this road. We want to move forward. Therefore, while respecting this activity and the need to expand this activity by bowing down to it, I scream once again: be wary of you, governments, of the freedom and freedoms of the union enshrined in the Charter of Human Rights! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u109	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Senator, I now have to adjourn until 1.45 p.m., because the Senate Bureau is meeting at 1 p.m. So that I thank you very much and announce a break until 1.45 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 00 to 13 minutes 51]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. And I'll ask Senator Piotr Wach to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you that we are still talking about the rural housewives' wheels. It's not my subject, and I wouldn't really be taking the floor if it wasn't for some comments. I would say this: I did not know the laws before the break, but I listened to the whole discussion cycle, i.e. both questions and speeches by the Minister and those voices in the discussion, and there were a lot of them that had already taken place. After listening to all of this, first of all, I would like to wish the Circles of Rural Housewives, to express their appreciation and respect for their long and fruitful activities, and to wish that both under the rule of the old laws, because probably such circles will still remain, as well as the new law, that they have the possibility of good action and development. And what I wanted to say first was, in my opinion, the shortcomings of this law, namely the transition from the requirement of a minimum 7-person wheel to a 10-person wheel. In the meantime, I took the text of the law and saw that there was a transitional period, governed by the article. 34, which covers six months and actually introduces two important things. Firstly, and I think it is very right that this period gives priority to existing wheels. This is due to the fact that there is a limitation to one wheel in one area, in one village, and thus existing wheels have as if the right of priority and will not be displaced, e.g. by some competitive organization. It's the right thing to do. But it still doesn't solve the matter of moving from a minimum of 7 members of a circle to a 10. True, there are 6 months and for 6 months a circle, which has 9, 8 or 7 members, can try to complete its composition by 10 to register and act under, so to speak, the rule of the new law, using the benefits mentioned here, which I am not actually able to assess. But I suppose with so many wheels It was mentioned here. There are probably wheels that count less than 10 people who will not be able to do it or who will have to do it artificially. I think it's a mistake, a failure of the bill. Says that you respect your work, that you respect your continuity, that you keep your name Although both men and women may be members, the name of the female character is preserved... The Act should also retain the possibility for existing wheels to operate and register, if they so wished, with a number of members of 7. These are my comments to this bill. I'm not making an amendment. I didn't mean to. What I'm talking about is a defect, but I don't think it's an intentional defect. Well, in six months, you can try to do something. If the wheel has major difficulties, it may try to artificially co-opt husbands, sons, as long as they are of age, but that does not make sense. The existing status of existing wheels had to be respected, as the name, tradition had been respected, and for old wheels the possibility of registering with fewer than 10 members had to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In many speeches, there was a kind of apology of rural hostels' circles. I don't think it's necessary. I don't see anyone in this room. And I don't think any of those that aren't in this room today either. Who would think that the circles of the country housewives are not useful, needed, wonderful, beautiful, etc., and I fully support that, I confirm. That's not what this bill is about. And there's nothing to find out. I was rather wondering when I listened to some speeches here, whether it was a festival of hypocrisy or naivety, or a blind follow-up to a government proposal, because it's our government, so I'm sure it's doing the right thing... I will not assign these qualities to anyone, but I will explain why I think so. Well, Senator Pajak said that for years he himself was a tycoon and was a district governor and he could not finance these rural circles from municipal funds, it was very difficult, some breakers had to be done, etc. He says, if that changes, I'm in favour of this bill. It's not gonna change. It's not like anything's gonna change about this. It is clear, then, that Senator Spider simply does not understand, and he necessarily wants to support this bill. Well, of course, he's allowed to, I just want to say, to put a little doubt in his position. Similarly, Senator Czudowska, who said that she has no idea how these wheels actually work in terms of their funding, but thinks it will be okay. Ladies and gentlemen, 150 years of working these wheels. No one's ever picked on it. If someone wanted to give more money, they could always give. Every government wasn't a problem. Suddenly it turns out that no, it needs to be changed. And here's the story of how it's gonna be better. Senator Wind is asking if if they have legal personality, they're only gonna get that money now... They have legal personality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like some substantive discussion. Or admit that there's an election going on right now... Senator Libicki asked carefully here, only Senator Libicki asked about local elections. Well, these are running out. It's not gonna work out here. But there are parliamentary elections, and the rural housewives' circles are something. 26,000 such wheels, at least 10 people in a circle, and yet these ladies still have husbands... [[Voice from the room: Sons...]] ...sons... right? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: And daughters.]] And I think they're gonna see... I apologize most, and my daughters, of course, as well as my grandchildren and grandchildren. [[Yes, sir.]] And whoever's giving the money seems to be better. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the clou of all this. I asked that question to the Minister, the Minister answered it crazyly. Curiosity! I asked the question: do these wheels receive money from the government today? And the Minister replied, "This is not on the subject, this is not on the subject of this bill." Well, he just got hit. Hit, sunk. He didn't want to answer that question. And of course the government is giving money, giving money through circles and agricultural organisations under the Rural Development Programme. And that money's there and the wheels give it to you. So if the government really wanted to help the village housewives, it would just give more money. What's the problem? But no, because they're gonna split circles, and that's what we're gonna do, we're gonna split circles. This will be distributed by one official with another, following a specific order. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm betting dollars against walnuts that it's just before the election that money will be spilled! It's just how it's gonna be. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in politics from now on, and I understand that various tricks apply. Only that I would ask you to respect the intelligence of your listeners here in the Senate. Well, we're really not out of nowhere. It's just a kind of political corruption. That's what you have to call it. It wasn't the first, because the volunteer fire department was the same. It's true, isn't it? It is one of the elements of the fight between PiS and PSL in the country or at all with other groups. Anyway, it's about bringing the voices to you, that's all. Your Marshal Blanket mentioned that dozens of rural housewives came here, who were very pleased with this idea. Yeah, I'd be happy to, too. If they told me they'd give me $90 million extra, would I be dissatisfied? The only thing is, this 90 million is given to the wrong channel that's always been given for years. And different governments gave, different, including notabene PiS governments, only in their own time, didn't they? You only get that money to give you another channel. And now you know why. That's why what Senator Czudowska said is that there is freedom, you can stay, you can go and so on. Well, okay, but here's the thing, if you stay, you won't get a dime, 'cause in a minute, of course, the wheels won't get anything anymore. I mean, why should they get paid if that money's gonna be somewhere else and everybody's gonna move there? So that's the kind of volunteering that Senator Libicki mentioned here, which is... What I'm trying to say is she has a long tradition. It's a famous story, but we like the stories we know best. Well, the famous manufacturer of the first cars, Ford, advertised these cars in this way: you can choose the color, provided it is black. And that's what the government is proposing. Well, it's understandable that you have to vote against this bill, which I encourage everyone to do. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u113	Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, it's hard to bring up these threads after Mr. Marshal Borowski's speech, because he pointed out all the disturbing issues in the context of the contested bill. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should start by explaining what the rural hostel circles are today. Please note that rural hostels are voluntary, self-governing and independent socio-professional organisations. So I'm surprised, folks, that after 150 years of running the country housewives' circles, somebody suddenly came up with an idea... I don't know if there was any reflection on it, not only in depth, but in any way. Because what is the basis of this bill? Or from the mouth, unfortunately, I'm saying this with great concern for matter. The rapporteur's senator, and even more so, not one substantive argument came out of the Minister's mouth to confirm the need for this regulation. You say, you tell the Minister that you want to transfer 90 million PLN for the circles of the country housewives. We are in favour of the Minister handing over up to PLN 100 million for the functioning of the rural hostels' circles, but please do not tell us that new regulations are needed to pass on additional PLN 90 million to the rural hostess' groups. Today, as I mentioned in the discussion, the rural hostels' circles benefit from very difficult funding under the Rural Development Programme. Fewly, the rural hostel groups used European money still in pre-accession times, with pre-accession funds. Following Poland's entry into the European Union, the rural hostels' circles benefited from funds from the Sectoral Operational Programme "Restructuring and modernisation of the agri-food sector and rural development," the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 and the Rural Development Programme 2014. And even the negotiations of area No. 7 of Agriculture, which Poland carried out with the European Union, adapting Polish legislation to the acquis communautaire, i.e. the acquis of the European Union, did not create any difficulties in the context of transition periods, i.e. as part of the Polish presence in the European Union. And now suddenly, in 2018, just before the local elections, and as you rightly note, Marshal Borowski, before the elections to the European Parliament which will be in May 2019, and before the elections to the national parliament, to the Senate and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, there is a desire to build some, I would say, transmission belt between the village housewives and a good uncle, and in the role of this good uncle wants to become the government of the Republic of Poland. But the government of the Republic of Poland should be a good uncle for all citizens of the Polish state. This is a truism and you don't need to build a special law, which is supposed to emphasize it in some way, expose it. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural hostess' circles, in accordance with the current legal order, are an entity that can use public money, including European public money, in an unhindered, successful way, and carry out important tasks that underpin the organisation of women's social life in the countryside. Agreed. And here I congratulate you on your anniversary, on the occasion of these 150 years, on the undisputed role that rural housewives play in the Polish countryside. Of course, your role evolves with the evolution of Polish villages and Polish agriculture, but I think that the rural hostels' circles today do not need help in creating a new rule of law. These regulations, which we discussed here, only interfere with, prevent the self-government of women in the countryside from organizing themselves in the circles of rural hostesses, but also create a number of premises which will possibly limit this spontaneous activity. So I am asking the Minister, the Government, the majority in the Senate, for you to submit to such a very substantive, factual consultation. It is absolutely unacceptable that the government of the Polish State does not carry out public consultations, that the government does not ask interested persons whether this law is necessary from the point of view of the activities of the rural housewives. This is reprehensible, in no way unjustified. As we talk to the representatives of the rural hostess circles, we hear that they are testing the need for new regulations in this area. So since the environment itself believes that this law is not useful from the point of view of conducting the daily activities of rural hostels, I ask, Minister, why do you make the happy. Maybe we need to take care of those who actually need help. I also refer, Minister, to the principle of subsidiarity, which is important from the point of view of Poland's presence in the European Union, but also to the role of the state towards social organisations, associations and foundations. There's no need in this dimension, as you can hear. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on all of us to reject this law in agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u115	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Guests! I would, of course, like to express my appreciation for the rural hostels' circles, like almost everyone here. For, however it may be, these wheels of housewives are, are, and will be. They will be. And did we? We're going to make a lot of laws, or we're not going to make them, so these wheels are going to exist. Because the housewife's wheels have a tradition. Their 150 years ago, no one even created them, they created themselves, and they will create themselves. Therefore, the question is: have we done so much wrong here by this law? Well, the discussion's over, some say yes, others say yes. I listened to the Prime Minister who said... His first words, which fell, were: I want to help the village housewives' circles, I want those who do not yet exist, and want to function there somewhere, for the first start admit PLN 3,000, for starting so that they can act. Those were the Prime Minister's words. We take it as very good news that there is help, support. And I think the prime minister's intention was just to help those housewives' circles where they're not there yet. 'Cause there's a lot of places where there's no wheel of country housewives. And I took it as a rule that this law was going in such a direction that it would allow for the support of the housewives' circles in the field of start-up. Similarly, we often create economic law, apply some relief or even reduced ZUS, or many other solutions so that entrepreneurs can function better. That's how I took it, that's how I did it. Now, the matter of the bill we're discussing, which the Sejm has adopted. Well, to be honest, I have a lot of doubts about that. Our Legislative Bureau has made a lot of amendments. I personally, after consulting the Minister to further clarify this, submit as many as 30 amendments to this law. 30 amendments. I don't want to discuss them because it's going to take a long time. But there's this one guy... Well, because here, at this stage, is there a discussion, or is there an amendment that says there's gonna be one wheel... or there's gonna be more wheels... It's debatable. I'm not hiding that I've been discussing this with the senators here, and, as I'm saying, maybe we should really support this conclusion, which points out that... maybe not to narrow it down to just one wheel, maybe give you a chance that... I think the senator's friend is gonna be putting forward an amendment like that... [[It's already in.]] ...which says that since the existing wheels are already there, let's leave the existing ones, and let's just write for the new ones that arise. Maybe it'll pass, I don't know. But we're proposing an amendment for her to be. Why don't we give it a chance, don't cross out the ones that exist, 'cause that would take away their opportunity... Let's give it a chance for those who already are. And since the Prime Minister said he's in favour of starting for these new wheels first, let's give it a chance. I think so, I can say that I would also like to see an amendment like the one that a fellow senator has already made here, as he said. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose and means... here some claim that these measures are wrong choice. Well, it's hard to say. I will say this: the restructuring agency has a lot of money... defined many rules, difficult, we often argue as farmers, that they are too difficult, that they prevent access, etc. Yeah, but it's often that you define a given amount of money so you don't give it to everyone, because it's not enough money. And therefore, if we were to create five wheels in the country And in big villages you could do that. Anyone would get $3,000 and it would be $15,000 instead of $3,000. The budget probably wouldn't last. So I understand the point, I understand there's an assumption to limit the number of abuses. I also point to this mechanism here in the amendment: what happens if the wheel is removed? Yeah, well, that's not what the old law says. So here we also want to define... Well, you have to make some rules, not do it on the principle that you cross out... And then what? Who's gonna be responsible for this? So we are also making amendments that determine what should be done if this organisation is removed. 'Cause it can't be that somebody's gonna do the abuse again and say, "I've registered, I've taken the money, and now I don't care. What do I care? So there's a point here, too... Well, the Senate is trying, we are here trying to improve the law that the Sejm presented to us in the bill. And maybe that's where the 30 amendments I'm making came from. I tabled 7 amendments earlier at the committee meeting, so there will be 37 of them together. I know my friends report them, too. We will have something to discuss in committee, and we will also talk about which amendments to accept. And if the High House accepts these amendments... I encourage at least those amendments I am proposing to be accepted. And I think the honorable housewife's wheels... I mean, really. The warm words of appreciation. I live in the country, I have housewives in the country, I have housewives in the neighboring village. It's always nice to work with them. Really, big words of appreciation, thanks to those who want, want and will want to work for our local communities. Thank you. [[Don't touch the good stuff.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing: Jan Filip Libicki, Marian Poślednik, Andrzej Kamiński and Jerzy Chróścikowski. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 735 and the committee's report in print No 735 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law As Mr Marshal mentioned, the proposed law aims to bring the law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2017, in which the Court found that the article was incompatible. 204 §1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 §1 of the Law Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. In view of the Court's position and the suggestions made in the explanatory memorandum of the judgment as to the shape of the legal solutions to be put in place by the legislator in order to properly comply with constitutional standards, it is proposed that Article 1. 204 of the implementing criminal code add §2a, which states that the perpetrator of the right to participate in the court's sitting on the further application of the so-called. Psychiatric internment. In the following provision, designed §2a, there is a reservation indicating that the perpetrator is not taking part in the sitting if it appears from the expert's opinion that this would be inappropriate, unless, of course, the court considers that participation of the perpetrator in the sitting is necessary for a proper settlement. At the same time, in order to eliminate the risk of obstruction, it was proposed that the perpetrator should specify a time limit of 7 days from the delivery of the notification of the court's meeting before the end of which he should submit a request to bring him to the meeting. However, despite the late request, it will still be possible to bring the perpetrator to the meeting if it is not necessary to postpone this meeting. The unsub will be instructed to file a motion to bring him to trial. The perpetrator may also apply to bring him to the meeting at the hands of the head of a mental institution and he will be required to refer him immediately to the competent court. The Court of First Instance will also have the opportunity to reach an agreement on the capacity of the perpetrator to take part in the sitting on the continuation of the safeguard measure in the form of an establishment stay not until the experts who have drawn up the opinion referred to in Article are psychiatric. 203 §1 k.k.w., it will provide information on whether the health status of the perpetrator is not an obstacle to carrying out activities involving him. It is therefore appropriate to require experts to take this aspect into account in the opinion sent to the court cyclically in the exercise by the head of a psychiatric establishment of disposal under Article. 203 §1 k.k.w. And finally, in the article. Point 1 is proposed to give a new wording to §2 in Article. 199a k.a.w. This provision shall indicate the local jurisdiction of the court in all matters relating to the implementation of the safeguards, except for electronic checks on the place of residence concerned by the provision of Article. 43e §3 k.k.w. The joint committees at their joint meetings on 5 June and 19 September considered the draft law at first reading, amended and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, annexed and presented by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u119	Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Are there any questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Marcin Warchoł is with us. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No. Thank you.]] Thank you. [[I have a question.]] Minister, if you don't mind. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is what I'm talking about. It's kind of hard to separate these two cases, this particular bill... Of course, it does not directly concern what is happening today, what is being heard about, what is happening in establishments or psychiatric hospitals. I have a question, among others. whether the government is planning to amend the law, tighten the law, or work on changes in care and supervision of psychiatric hospital research. This also applies to expert opinions, because the opinions of judicial experts are often changed or replicated on a copy-paste basis. That's what we know, among other things. from the television materials that appear. These opinions are duplicated, and this often leads to very poor supervision of the people who are there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u121	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not further than last week, I had a very good meeting with the Vice-President of the General Medical Council on the reform of experts and we are working on this reform. These are analytical and conceptual work carried out at the Ministry of Justice. I don't know the deadline for this job, but it's going on. We'll consult with the medical community, the expert community. And all those issues that the senator asked you to mention, I'm sure they'll be taken into account. Is the health department working on something? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u123	Please, Senator Grażyna Shark again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u124	It's still about the costs of getting these people to court where they're supposed to be. I'd like to say more or less whether it's very high costs or they're... I'm talking about the financial costs, 'cause that's what we're talking about here. The Ombudsman seems to have paid attention to the costs of transporting these persons from their place of residence to the court. And will there be adequate security for those to be transported? [[There you go...]] Has the resort calculated more or less what the costs are?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u125	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u126	Thank you very much. It can be estimated, as we read in the impact assessment, that expenditure related to bringing the perpetrator from a mental institution to a court meeting each year will amount to about PLN 540 thousand. However, these estimates do not take into account the cost of convoy condemned by the police, which consists inter alia. additional costs for police work or fuel costs. It can also be assumed here that, compared to the costs of sanitary transport, the costs of convoying by the police will be negligible. I would also like to make it clear that this court is the right place to recognise such matters, and not, as was the case during the debate, the penitentiary... the centre... [[A psychiatric facility.]] Psychiatry, yes, sir. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. There are no further questions for you. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: second reading of the bill on the provision of compensation services. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No 862, and the committee's report In print No 862 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed at their meeting the draft law on the provision of compensation services, i.e. printing No 862. They're proposing a party... The committees accepted the amendments during this meeting and propose to the High House that the draft be adopted. A few words about this project. The project is the result of repeated calls from the financial Ombudsman, who asked various bodies, including the Senate, to take action to regulate the market so-called. compensation firms, a market that is developing very dynamically and actually has many hundred million turnovers. The financial Ombudsman already organised a conference on this subject in 2010. The result of his work was the preparation of a draft law wide, comprehensively regulating the requirements for damages firms, as well as creating a new profession of compensation advisor, including the establishment of its own chamber for damages, etc. etc., supervision of this market. This project, as a project that created a separate profession, was not supported, so we decided, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, to undertake the task of regulating those issues that require urgent intervention and which serve to protect the victims who have multiple problems in their dealings with compensation firms. These problems were signalled in numerous correspondence to the committee also by those who suffered as a result of the activity of the compensation firm. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has worked very carefully on the draft regulation. On 19 April this year, we held a seminar meeting attended by representatives of the compensation firm. Very many came representatives of all chambers of attorneys, lawyers, notaries, representatives of the ministries concerned, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the financial spokesman, representatives of the UOKiK, the Financial Supervision Commission, a very long list. As a result of this seminar, we have achieved full compatibility between all participants and all stakeholders as to the fact that regulation is about to be fragmented, pointy and that we do not create a separate profession, but only regulate issues that are important for consumers of compensation services. There was a seminar session on April 19th. On 5 June, at its 100th second meeting, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance unanimously, with the participation of almost all the senators, the members of the committee, adopted the draft, which was then first read at the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The first reading was July 23rd. It was interrupted in order to allow interested parties to prepare amendments which had been tabled for the Commission's draft. We continued our first reading on September 25. The work of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has resulted in a project in print No 862 S, which you have in your possession. What issues are raised in this project? And why do victims need to regulate the activities of compensation companies? There are several irregularities in the activity of the compensation firm. Here I would like to stress very strongly that this market is very diverse. There are large, well organized entities that operate professionally. There's also a whole swarm of small, small compensation firms, where people with no proper education are involved in this activity, doing it in the course of another profession, e.g. being gravediggers. And they're taking on the insurance company compensation business. So the market is very diverse, there are irregularities, but at the same time I would like to confirm this strongly. It's very necessary. Compensation firms are needed and this regulation is not intended to hinder or terminate the activities of the compensation firm, which in some letters was raised by representatives of parts of the compensation firm. The aim of this project is to eliminate phenomena that harm the victims, which are a threat to the development of this market. After eliminating the risks to the development of this market, we will have well-functioning compensation firms, we will have proper relations with their clients, with those affected, we will also have proper relations with insurance companies, and it is good that they meet with such an opponent in the form of compensation firms, because it is for the benefit of consumers. So here we are doing this for the benefit of the compensation firm, for the development of this market, not only, as I mentioned, for the benefit of the victims, consumers. The irregularities which we have observed and which have been observed by the financial spokesman, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Justice, I will list and point to those laws which are designed to eliminate or prevent such irregularities. The first thing, fundamental, which is very important in the construction of the entire proposed law, is the issue of transferring compensation directly to the injured person's account, not to the account of the compensation firm. We have here irregularities consisting in taking part of the compensation or all of the compensation by compensation companies. There is a long list of press articles describing the events that have occurred, and I can give you an example. In 2017, in Lublin, 30 victims, 200 thousand losses, misappropriation of damages paid by insurers. Large law firm It was July of 2017 and is applying for PLN 140 thousand... I'll find it right away. It is made by PLN 140,000, paying the victim PLN 40,000. So the phenomenon of holding, taking over, embezzling part of the compensation paid to the victim. This solution, which is contained in the bill, prevents such a cash flow. The money is to go to the person who is injured and who is applying for compensation. We must not allow the injured party to then ask the compensation firm to refund the money kindly, and they pay him part or pay him in installments, in short, or avoid contact. We also have a very important risk of bankruptcy of these compensation firms. Many times it has happened that compensation firms, which had multimillion-dollar compensations, received multimillion-dollar compensations, declared bankruptcy, and the money disappeared. So here we have a solution that precisely requires the flow of money from the insurance company: the compensation goes to the injured person's account and the injured person pays for the service of the compensation firm. It can't be that the compensation firm takes over the money, deducts a high commission, a commission that... The commission information we have indicates that the compensation intermediaries' salaries are high, reaching up to 1/3 of the compensation paid plus VAT. These are the rates that are valid on the market. Thus, compensation firms with the current cash flow are in such a luxurious situation that they have the money from which they deduct their remuneration. They have this certainty of payment regardless of the quality of the service provided. It's a special exception on the market. Everyone must issue an invoice to the customer and if the customer is satisfied, it pays the invoice. If he is dissatisfied, then you must go to court and enforce payment for the service rendered. This system, which is now functioning, perverts this proper relationship and is harmful to the victims. It actually works against this weaker side of the contract, against the consumer. Tolerating this is inappropriate, hence our intervention in the proposed law: the obligation to pay compensation to the injured person and the injured person then pays for the service of the compensation firm if this compensation firm has done its job well if she is entitled to it. This will make it possible to regulate for the benefit of consumers the amount of commissions or the remuneration of compensation firms. They will be closer to the salaries that lawyers or lawyers take for their services, because they can also be asked for representation. You don't have to go to a compensation firm, you can use professional services for which rates are regulated, significantly lower than what is collected by compensation firms. This is a matter of transferring funds directly to the victims. The question of acquisition and advertising. This is where we regulate customer procurement. We ban advertising, acquisition in cemeteries, hospitals, emergency rooms, courts, public places where people in a state of uproar often sign post-accident shock documents given to them by aggressive salesmen trained for such acquisitions. People are under pressure to sign documents, contracts, and then it's hard for them to withdraw. We want the decision to involve the compensation firm to be made with due consideration. After a man has cooled down after the event, he will decide whether to use the compensation firm or to go to a lawyer, to a legal counsel, or maybe to fill out his claim for compensation to an insurance company himself. These are opportunities that he will be able to benefit from. Nevertheless, we want a decision which, after all, results in high costs to be taken in circumstances where there is a chance for free reflection. So there will be a ban on acquisitions in cemeteries and hospitals immediately after the incident. Compensation firms, as we have observed and as we were also told in committee work, pay for acquisitions. There's a whole market for people who get paid for activities that are often illegal. There are situations where a police officer shows up after an accident, and an immediate representative comes along, a solicitor of the compensation firm. There are such events that an ambulance arrives and immediately a representative of the compensation firm arrives. Here we are dealing with the flow of personal data, which is, after all, prohibited. Tolerating such a way of acquisition is a proper tolerance for criminal activity. Come on. Obstruction of access to treatment and rehabilitation for victims. Very often, we are dealing with a situation in which compensation firms seek to settle quickly and pay all the compensation and the funds to be used for the cost of treatment. This is paid once, in a large amount, immediately. Such agreements shall be signed. This is in some sense beneficial for insurance companies, because they quickly resolve their reserves and immediately solve the problem, perhaps even paying less than they would have paid if the case had gone to court. Indemnification firms are interested in getting the full amount right away. Why? Because they can hit their commission right away, and they have the money immediately. Thus, we are faced with a situation in which the money allocated to cover the cost of treatment is reduced by a commission paid, which results in the victim having no money for full treatment, deprived of the amount needed for effective treatment or rehabilitation. The Act will prohibit commission collection of medical and rehabilitation funds. The amount charge will only be possible if the costs are incurred by the compensation firm, e.g. costs relating to the expert, the juror who helps in preparing the claim for compensation. I've already told you about the high salaries of the compensation brokers. Finally, the last issue, the professionalism of those who work in the field of compensation consultancy. There are no educational requirements, there is no control over the qualifications of these people, their past There isn't, for example. the requirement of non-punishment There is no such regulation in the word for persons who are involved in this activity. The financial Ombudsman called for a wide-ranging regulation, very similar to that of other legal professions. We haven't decided to do that. We believe that this problem can solve the requirement of civil liability insurance for such a liability firm. Thus, the condition for carrying out this activity, the condition for effective conclusion of a contract for such assistance, for compensation advice, will be to have such insurance. And it will also be an obligation to present such a policy and include a copy of it in the contract. So we've got some surveillance here. In order to obtain such insurance, you will need to undergo the risk analysis carried out by the insurance company, and thus someone who was, for example. Punishment multiple times, he won't get insurance like this. I think that the insurance undertaking will refuse such a person's insurance policy and thus will not be able to effectively conclude contracts and represent the victims. It's the insurance that's gonna force certain standards. Finally, having this insurance, which is mandatory for lawyers, legal counsels, will allow people who will be harmed by the actions of the compensation firm, by their actions or omissions... Well, it will allow you to effectively demand compensation for the actions committed by the compensation firm. There'll be plenty to pay for it. As in other legal professions, as in the case of lawyers and counsellors, these compensation advisers will have to have insurance, compulsory insurance against civil liability in the event of incorrect performance of the service. And that's the regulation. You can say that 5 problems identified are described in this proposed law. We are trying to tackle these tools, these laws, these irregularities that occur in the activities of certain compensation firms, so that this market is better organised and better served consumers. So much for my report. I ask the High House to support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u130	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is not the industry I'm dealing with, but because I've received some signals from people who fear that this bill will not solve the problem of the amount charged by these firms... In the case of such appeals and the granting of a certain sum, the amount of the percentage depends on the amount of compensation they receive. These people say the higher the compensation they get, the greater the percentage the law firms demand from them. Is it true that the bill will somehow regulate it? Is there a gap here? People are afraid of it. These are the questions of one page. I also got questions from a few law firms who have a completely different point of view. They claim that there are so many restrictions, so many reservations and so many nuances in the bill's draft law that, in fact, when you read these records, you can decide to close the law firm because they are in danger of crashing. How exactly does it look? You were very specific about what this planned bill is talking about. I want you to talk about the essence of this bill in the case of both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u131	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u132	As regards the first question, Mrs Senator, the concern that the issue of high remuneration is not regulated here is Article. 4th Act says this: a contract regulating the remuneration of an advisor may determine the remuneration in relation to the amount received to the client, not more than 20% that amount. No more than that. If the contract determines the amount of remuneration in relation to the amount obtained to the customer for more than 20% The customer is not obliged to pay. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Again. I understand that this is...]] We're setting a ceiling. If they type in 40% or 35%, more than 20%, the customer is not obliged to pay. It's very clear, Art. 4. [[But he's not obliged, does he pay 20%?]] He's paying a maximum of 20%. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damian: Maximum. It's included in this bill.]] Yes, art. Four of them are talking about it. As far as concerns about excessive regulation are concerned, if you read the draft prepared by the financial spokesman, you would know that there was very detailed regulation, there was supervision of all of this, there was a profession of compensation adviser and there were very detailed regulations. We have not decided to regulate it in such detail, we do not create a profession, we do not regulate professional activity. We only protect customers' interests. This law protects the interests of clients of the compensation firm. She is to prevent the loss of funds that insurance companies pay, the embezzlement of these funds by compensation firms, the collection of excessive remuneration by compensation firms, that is, pathology that we have observed. This is not an over-regulation. In fact, in these few articles, we are talking about the need to conduct such activities properly, fairly and honestly and not to be overpaid. Taking 20% from the amount of compensation granted for the accident... In case of compensation of PLN 100,000 this is PLN 20,000. If somebody says it's a small amount of money to prepare the compensation papers... I think lawyers and lawyers would take a very sharp stance on this, because they receive much lower resources. There is no fear here that compensation firms will disappear from the market. I was happy to read an interview with one of the chiefs of a large compensation firm who criticized the bill, but also said that they were properly prepared to comply with these regulations. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Can I ask you something else?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u133	Mrs. Senator wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u134	Were there consultations? Did the firm's representatives take part in the consultation? Was there such a consultation? [[Yes. Every step of the way.]] I'm asking because, as part of one of my complaints, I got information that they weren't invited to any consultations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u135	Of course, there were representatives of 2 chambers of association of compensation firms, during the committee's work they were allowed to speak, they spoke very abundantly, there were also representatives of individual compensation firms, they participated in the meeting, and all the documents related to the work of our committees were available on the Internet and the work was observed. I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u136	Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u137	I think I'll continue with Senator Boris-Damięcka's statement and, of course, I'll answer. There was a full representation, including representatives of the legal authorities. And that's what I'm getting at. My question is... As you recall, there were a lot of reservations, including. concerning the fact that this planned bill is simply over-regulated, tightened so that... And she's really necessary after all the experiences you've been talking about. I therefore have a question: whether, after the amendments have been introduced, Because at first reading they were introduced, among others. Mr. Senator... [[Yes, sir.]] ...has introduced amendments to the law authorities changed their mind and as if they had accepted the new formula of this law, or did they still have the reservations that were raised at first reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u138	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u139	Thank you very much. As far as positions are concerned, they have not been received, perhaps otherwise, I have not seen new posts, and all the documentation is on the committee's website. I haven't seen any new posts from lawyers, counselors, who could come after the first reading. In the second part, because, as you remember, The vote was made in a kind of two-way... The first vote was tied, accompanied by very strong statements from some of the senators, who are lawyers, and at the second sitting, when I think they just received more information, because also some of the senators who spoke before the first vote did not attend and did not have this information... [[And then they changed their mind.]] After obtaining this information, I will remind you that 17 senators from both committees supported this project. I don't know if anyone was against it, but I think some senators have abstained. Well, it'll be residual regulation. This is what we agreed on, and we agreed that we would only regulate these key issues, protect consumers' interests. This allows us to take measures that limit the freedom of business of these firms to some extent. Yes? But we do it for the protection of another good, after all more important, the good of consumers, this party weaker in the contract, in relation to the compensation firm. So I think that the final result of the vote also shows how the position of professional legal advisers has evolved in relation to this law. Of course, if the bill is adopted by the High Senate I'm asking you to do what I'm asking. It will still be subject to work in the Sejm, and then it will come back to us. So it's a long way to go. If it turns out that there are important reasons for amending this law, then we will make such decisions. I'll support these changes myself if we don't notice anything. But I think we've been working very carefully, very carefully. We have spent a lot of time working on this bill, so I believe that this regulation, however limited, is complete, so the limitations we have introduced are well calibrated and should work well. And the foundation of this regulation is the principle of compensation for the victim, not the law firm, which may then behave badly when it comes to this money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u140	Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u141	Mr President, you can consider these questions to be questions under the motto "Myszek Miki" because I do not work in this committee and this is not my area. Nevertheless, doubts are raised not only by me, but also by lawyers. Three questions. Mr President, Mr Senator, lawyers and lawyers believe that adding them to this bill was not there before. At least three doubts are raised. The first is that for them it is contrary to the code of ethics of a lawyer, in which they have to vow, because the prices, the fees that they might charge, are not... In accordance with ethical principles They can't come from, say, a trade agreement. The lawyer is obliged, because this is the service, to apply proportional to the effort, not to how much you can draw What they use or what they can use, although I don't want to prosecute here, compensation companies... Second question. The lawyer does not work in physical space, e.g. next to the sick man's bed. He can't take action against a desperate family. Let us be honest: it is a settled activity, speaking the language of Bydgoszcz, my city. And finally, the third issue, maybe the most important one. As far as lawyers and lawyers are concerned, rates apply. And these rates, which are proposed here, conflict with those that are regulated by law today. Hence the suggestion to exclude the profession, the solicitor's and the counselor's profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u143	Thank you very much. This issue was raised, very widely discussed at committee meetings. In this regard, the Minister present here, the Ministry of Justice, also expressed his views on this project, which is available on the committee's pages. There is no such contradiction, the limitations resulting from other laws, from the laws governing in detail the activities of a lawyer or legal adviser shall apply in full. These laws do not conflict with the regulations that apply to these professions, as you well put it, settled. That's a very nice word, I bought it. Thank you very much. [[Mickey Mouse...]] Mickey Mouse is a very friendly creature. [[Yes. Big business.]] This is a very pleasant creature, so that it should not be treated negatively, Senator. It's more about style. Mickey Mouse is a positive term, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u144	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. There are no more questions. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[I'm gonna speak...]] Oh, Mr. Senator. [[If you don't mind, I'm not going to vote anymore. I still have some amendments I'd like to make. These are the results of the opinions and conclusions that came after the first reading...]] Then we'll put the senator on the phone... [[Thank you, then.]] ...because you're kind of from a different position here. [[Thank you, then. Then I'd like to add...]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Are you Minister Marcin Warchoł? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. [[There's a question.]] There's a question. Minister, come in. There you go, Minister... Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u145	Minister, the Senator rapporteur tried very hard, but he also referred to you, so I repeat these three questions, which, if you haven't heard them, I can repeat them. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: I would be very grateful.]] Good. Minister, first question. Don't you think that adding counsels and lawyers here is in some kind of conflict with the principles of law ethics regarding these two professions? Because it's there, among other things. There's a different rule in the assessment of claims than there is... than is assigned... than the rule generally applied, and that's more important, by compensation companies, where there's full freedom for me to say trade. Second question. The actions of the bar and counsel chambers or law firms have, let's say, this is how it has been emphasized, thank you, Mr. Senator, the settled character, that is, they do not take place near the sick bed, against desperate families, in a situation of ignorance, maybe even when there is already a state of agony. This situation is actually banned even in the case of these 2 professions. And the third issue. There is a likelihood of a collision between the rates set for counsellors. I don't know if they're lawyers. And those that are written in this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u147	Thank you very much. To answer the third and first questions, there is no contradiction between the bill... the bill and both the bargain rates and the issues of attorney ethics. As for the Code of Lawyer's Ethics, §50, as I recall, this Code... That's exactly what it is... now, we're pointing... He says there's only a ban on so-called. success fee as the sole basis for remuneration, but it may be an additional component of this remuneration. I would like to quote here this provision of §50 paragraph. 3. It reads: "It is unacceptable for a lawyer to enter into a contract with a client which would provide for an obligation to pay a fee for handling a case based solely on the final outcome of the case. This is a situation where this payment would depend solely on the final outcome of the case. However, it is in no way prohibited to set such a fee as an additional component of this remuneration. This provision continues to say that a lawyer may reserve an additional fee in a contract with a client for a positive outcome. So that in no way does this project fail to comply with the provisions of the Code of Lawyer's Ethics, or with the Lawyer's Feet. There is an indication not more than 20% here the amounts already present. The collective action law provides for an exact solution of this kind: 20% of the amount is also reserved there. So that this is not a novel in Polish legislation. It can be said that this bill will set up the rules that have been in place, has a sequencing meaning and will serve, as you have said here, to customers, consumers, people who have been injured, and then as a result of illegal acquisitions. From now on, if, of course, the bill were to enter into force, I would say morally reprehensible... Because soliciting in cemeteries or hospitals or in other places that involve trauma to the injured person, the day after the incident, unfortunately, arouses such negative associations, feelings. This person should be left to himself at the moment so that she can carefully decide who to direct her steps to in order to obtain legal aid, and so in her home she is being solicited by telephones, which often even call for harassment, malice or harassment within the meaning of Article. 107 offenses. So this bill has a sequencing character. It also introduces certain rules Let's call it humane. In order to regulate this type of activity. However, in no way fails to comply with legal ethics or rules related to bar rates.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u148	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more requests for questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm a little surprised. Maybe I didn't get to know this bill very thoroughly, but in my opinion, it causes the victims in accidents to have fewer opportunities. If we have 40,000 injured in accidents each year and 3,500 killed, it means the consequences for both parents and children if they have lost their parents. At present, insurers lose almost 100% in court. cases because they are judges in their own cases. Polish Chamber of Advisors and Intermediaries... I perfectly understand that they cannot carry out agitations in public buildings and probably 100 m from these buildings. It's pretty important, and I think it's being respected. But the advisors also inform about the rights of the insured. Not everyone in the countryside and small towns is entrepreneurial, not everyone can reach the law firm. It's about receiving rehabilitation not from the National Health Fund, it's about receiving rehabilitation paid separately, from compensation companies, which means it's like it's being reimbursed privately. So you're missing the queue where those who are waiting to cover the rehabilitation from the National Health Fund are standing. This is a completely different part of the benefits. Plenipotentiaries can win four times higher benefits for victims, which I believe is very important. Yeah, but the insurance company can't be a judge on its own and assess the damages itself. To me, it's... Well, there's too much talk about the constitution here, but I'll say it's a little bit against the insurance rights. I therefore make such an amendment to delete the article. 7. Then for me this bill is acceptable because the sum of the compensation will be paid to the injured person's account and only the injured person will settle with the company. So the victim may in some ways pursue his rights with the Polish Chamber of Advisers and Intermediaries of Compensation, also judicially, through the court, but the money is with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It'll be short, in two sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the phenomenon we want to regulate is present and very often. In fact, it can be said that it is largely negative. Prosecution of sick people, after accidents in hospitals, obtaining authority from them to claim claims, promising them what amounts, then ending these cases very often on sums which result from the fact that the insurance institution finally voluntarily agrees to withdraw, and collecting from this horrendous percentage, as reported by the press, sometimes reaching up to 50% the amount obtained, and this is voluntary, not as a result of a process that is long-lasting, heavy and requiring legal qualifications This is solved differently in different countries. In a very comprehensive opinion of the Supreme Bar Council, which is almost a scientific elaborate, which has, perhaps, 32 pages, indicated how it is resolved in different countries. In most countries this type of activity is simply pursued as a business activity in the field of legal mediation without the required qualifications. This is the case in France, where there are very severe penalties, so it is in a number of other countries. We've chosen a different path here and we're trying to civilize it. Some proposals, such as mandatory liability insurance, as well as a number of others related to the restriction of intrusive advertising or the imposition of their services, deserve recognition. But it does not deserve recognition, and I am firmly speaking on this matter, the introduction of two professional categories into this proposed law. It's about people who have the right and the right studies, and qualifications, who, after their studies, took a lawyer's application or a solicitor's application completed with a passed exam, and introduced these categories into this law. It is simply derogatory of the dignity of these two professional categories. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a regulation that reminds me of the regulation of the carriage of passengers, where the carrier is on the one hand They're insurance companies, and I'm sorry for the rough comparison, but I'm saying it on purpose so that it's clear. On the other hand, the pilot of the Boeing aircraft. There is no point in regulating this in a single law, because it is absolutely unsuitable to each other. Equally insulting are the regulations on all these restrictions, where there is a ban on advertising, the prohibition on soliciting clients, which are intended to refer to legal counsels and lawyers, because they, as a foundation in their ethical assumptions, are not to act this way. Therefore, ordering them to comply with these rules for the second time in this proposed law makes the legislator ridiculous, and these professional categories are insulting. That's why I'm proposing changes that I made in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will take advantage of the presence on the platform and first I will make prepared amendments, which are, as I said, the result of the work after first reading. The Legislator's office wants to make a few more improvements. Besides, as you know, our Legislative Office has done an excellent job in preparing the draft of this regulation, especially the legislator Michał Gil, so we had a great professional service here, for which I thank you very much. Up to the last minute, this project is being sanded down, so we still have a few legislative amendments. One amendment is a substantive amendment concerning the issue of circumvention of the provisions of this law by the purchase of claims for unlawful conduct, i.e. that compensation, as colloquially can be said, by law firms. In this way, it would be possible to circumvent this law, as has been pointed out to us since the first reading, and it is therefore proposed to regulate to prohibit the transfer of claims for unlawful acts to an advisor or a third party. I propose such changes in this second reading. I'm transmitting, Mr. Marshal, the corrections. If you don't mind, I'll refer to the statements of my previous speakers. They're not present in the courtroom, but they'll listen to us or read it in a transcript. Senator Stanisławek proposes the removal of the article. 7th bill. I'll remind you that this article. 7 concerns precisely this acquisition, which we have discussed extensively in the debate. Acquisition in health care facilities, funeral homes, cemeteries, public buildings, in particular government administration buildings, local government administration, military buildings, courts, prosecutors... Yeah, right now, this acquisition is really taking place in these places. We want to ban it. The removal of this ban means that it will be as it is. I think Senator Stanisławek has been misled. as to the substance of this regulation. We'll probably have a chance to talk more about this at the committee meeting. I know that Senator Stanisławek has very good will and wants this regulation to be correct and properly calibrated. As for the issues raised by my clubmate, Senator Quichoń, that this regulation is insulting, offensive to lawyers, legal counsel... I know a lot of lawyers, a lot of lawyers. We talked about it, and no one was offended. I've never seen that reaction before. That's one thing. Secondly, as to the comparison between the driver and the Boeing pilot, I would like to say that I know one pilot who drives... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In some sense, we have noticed this phenomenon, and so that the provisions of this proposed law should not be disregarded, e.g. Lawyer's office, these two competitions are listed here. I think it's hard to say that the law can be offensive... It can be bad or good, it can be more or less burdensome. We are trying to make good regulation, not burdensome, and our intention is not to offend anyone. So much for referring to this argument that surprised me a little bit, but maybe I don't have the environmental sensitivity that my clubmate has. I have many friends of lawyers and lawyers, wonderful people. And the gentlemen and the ladies. The respectable people. As I said, none of them were offended when I talked to them about this regulation. I appreciated the voices of those professionally involved in legal aid in the preparation of this regulation. So much for me... I would like to ask the senators to support this project. We have very few senate projects that interfere with the market for legal, financial services. Here we have chosen such a path of the senate project just to make good regulation, so that there is enough time to speak out to all interested. We wanted to prepare a regulation that would help people using the services of the compensation firm, and that would allow the compensation firm to improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... Excuse me, Senator... [[Yes, Senator Radziwill Konstantin.]] ...Constanty Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I am extremely close to matters of public trust because I have been a local government official for many years. Undoubtedly, this draft law slides somewhere along the border of this kind of activity, which is why I allow myself to take the floor in this matter. Senator Bierecki rightly and, you can say, so much teaching said that the bill is to support 2 types of entities: on the one hand, those who deal with compensation and on the other hand customers. Only I would say this: when it comes to these intermediary companies, we very clearly want to support this regulation for those who are decent and who act as they should. It will certainly not support those who behave indecently and who we want to call to order or eliminate from this business. And so it is, you can say, direction. As regards the participation of lawyers and legal advisers, i.e. those affected by specific requirements, including ethical ones, in such activities, he is simply a fact. And it has to be said that the codes of ethics that apply to them are such a soft kind of law. I always have a code of medical ethics with me, it's very important to me, but I know well that it is, you can say, more moral commitment than a real rule, for which there are also rigid rules of responsibility. This responsibility also exists, professional responsibility or, in the case of lawyers and lawyers, disciplinary responsibility exists, but it must be said that in many cases it does not have as strong influence as the law. And in this sense it seems to me that... well, moral law applies to all of us, and yet we still make laws, criminal law and other laws that just have to be followed. Moral laws should also be observed, but unfortunately this does not always happen. Well, then... I understand this voice of opposition, I understand that such regulation of the case against some In particular, those who are acting decently, for whom moral principles are a real command, may be some awkwardness. However, one must be aware that there are others who do not care too much about it, and that these must be called to order. Because there's another subject, the other subject, so to speak, the direction of this proposed bill that Senator Bierecki mentioned. They're customers. And it must also be said that out of these two directions, the latter is more important. Because the bill is primarily designed to protect customers who today are indecently solicited and in some sense forced to sign anything. They think it's the best thing they can do in a situation, and then it's hard to undo. And that's why I don't understand the motion to delete the article. 7. In my opinion, he is at all crucial in this bill. The point is that the client should be protected from a situation where, as it were, forced or simply not knowing what he was doing, he signed a contract and then he can't back out of it. This article makes it very clear that the customer may withdraw, referring precisely to the circumstances in which the contract was signed. This is an extremely important element of this proposed law. And if this proposal comes up, I will, of course, vote against it. There's another element, you can say, indirectly... Although it is not directly mentioned in the documents we are dealing with, it is worth mentioning in the context of this type of activity, and especially such intrusive acquisition. This is a matter of health care. Unfortunately, lawyers and lawyers are increasingly involved, either directly or indirectly. We are witnessing a situation where patients, even those who have not suffered injury, are encouraged to analyze the process of diagnosis and treatment in the hope that something can be fished out of it or, uglylyly speaking, squeeze. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to develop this subject, but in my opinion Let's take a look at what's going on in this area in the United States of America. That's the direction. extremely dangerous, not just for the customers themselves For those patients who are likely to become clients of compensation intermediaries But above all for the whole health care system. This results in extremely adverse consequences for patients in the form of a sharp increase in the cost of providing health services, especially due to the need for additional collateral from the side, let's call it financial, i.e. additional, very expensive insurance against civil liability, but also Which is dangerous not only for the system, but also for patients to practice what is called defensive medicine, and which means in practice to perform very many benefits, especially diagnostics, completely unrelated to the patient's real need. On the one hand, this greatly undermines the entire witnessing, and on the other hand, it poses a risk to patients in itself. This is a phenomenon that is described, you can say, by all researchers or experts of health systems in the world. It occurs with particular severity in the United States, but also in some other countries. And we need to see this danger, because it also appears in Poland. It seems that this law will also be extremely important because this very negative trend must be halted. What else is, of course, responsibility for what is done in health care and what else is artificial creation of needs in this area, increasing costs, as well as putting myself at risk of those dangers that I mentioned. In conclusion, I believe that this draft law, which is very difficult, complicated, but is going in the right direction, deserves support in the form in which it was notified, of course, with those amendments that Senator Bierecki was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u156	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been made in writing by the senators... [[Senator Bierecki would like to speak again for 5 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u157	No, no. If I may, Mr. Marshal, I would just like to make a motion for the committees to consider the bill... [[...at this meeting.]] ...at this meeting, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u158	Good. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jan Rulewski, Zbigniew Cichoń, Andrzej Stanisławek and Grzegorz Bierecki. Does a government representative want to respond... [[I'm closing the discussion.]] Oh, of course. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Senator Bierecki has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. The 20th point has already been dealt with. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 977 and the report of the committee In print No 977 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u159	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Health Commission, a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Commission adopted the law without discussion and unanimously supported the proposal to adopt it without amendment. If I may, a few words of additional comment, because for those who are not interested in the subject, it may not be quite clear what we are doing at all in this act. The title of the bill is very complicated. He says that once again we are improving the law on public-funded healthcare provision. But this is where we really concentrate. In this great law, which is one of the constitutions of health services On improving a project known as 75+, 75+ medicines, that is, in short, for free medicines for seniors. This part of the Public-funded Health Services Act has been in operation since September. It shall apply whether it entered into force in September 2016. Already after the first year of the law, the number of beneficiaries was over 2 million. Let me remind you that these are people over the age of seventy-five who receive medicines from the appropriate list free of charge. After a year, such prescriptions were issued with an annotation of "S', which indicates the right to receive medicines free of charge at the pharmacy, over 15 million and 40 million packs of medicines. So it's a project that's actually starting. At the same time, it should be recalled that on the list of these free medicines There are preparations that have already been included in the list of refunded medicines. And those letters. It will compare the list of medicines refunded as well as the list of medicines free of charge. They're still alive. These are letters that change, with a tendency to expand. Initially, when we introduced this law, there were concerns, the risk that there would be a lot of abuse that could happen so that we would not manage expenditure in this area. Well, these concerns have proved to be flaming and thus it is possible to implement this law on a continuous basis, also to increase the amount of expenditure from the state budget that is allocated for this purpose. I will remind you that in 2018 it is over 640 million PLN. So that's the amount that's not really worth it. Over the next years this amount will increase to over PLN 1 billion 200 million per year. Let me also remind you that the 75+ law, about free medicines, is a so-called A very simple regulation that says that actually the only criterion, the subjective criterion, to receive this prescription, is the end of the seventy-five years of age. Medicines should be given to people who receive a prescription from their primary health care doctor with this annotation. In the list of medicines for free are mainly medicines that treat chronic diseases. In recent months, this list has been significantly expanded this year, among others. antidiabetic agents, anticoagulants, certain medicines used for inflammation, anticancer, antiasthmatics. I'm talking about this because there's an ongoing analysis of what medications should be extended to the list. It seems that the success of this project is very clear. However, there is also a need to avoid, as far as possible, this limitation, which was included in the 2016 Act, namely, firstly, to extend the possibility of spending on this purpose slightly in general. This is precisely what the law we are considering today is about a relatively small increase in the amount of budgetary resources allocated to this purpose in the current year, but also, secondly, to make these expenditures more flexible in the following quarters of the following years, because, for fear of excessive expenditure for this purpose, there has been a provision which states that... In this prudential rule, it is stated that in the individual quarters of the following year no more than 25% can be spent on this purpose than in the following quarters of the following year. the total annual amount. It seems right for the eye, but the result is that the Minister of Health, you can say, is afraid to exceed the 25% e.g. in the first or second quarter, and then it turns out that in the fourth quarter there is simply a certain amount not given. This flexibility will make it possible to raise this threshold to 35% without, of course, exceeding the overall amount for the year concerned. More so, you might say, the propitious extension of the existing list. I would also like to say, by the way, because this was discussed in the Sejm, that the law does not extend the list of doctors who have the right to issue free prescriptions for seniors, for the reasons I have already mentioned, i.e.. because of the fear of abuse, the primary healthcare provider is one and therefore best placed to control what prescriptions have been issued to the patient. But also, and I very strongly stress that, for substantive reasons, and not just for financial reasons. This is the direction to strengthen the patient's coordination role as a primary healthcare physician, to avoid polypragma, i.e. the use of an excessive number of medicines, to avoid unexpected interactions between medicines prescribed by different doctors, and, what is very important, to encourage older patients, especially those with multi-morbidity in chronic diseases, to benefit primarily from the care of primary healthcare doctors and not from regular visits to doctors in outpatient specialized care, which is unfortunately very common practice, many patients do so. Well, it seems that the first analyses of how after the introduction of the 75+ project the number of people using the advice of specialist doctors in this age group has decreased slightly, encouraging this project to continue in this way. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Marcin Czech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marcin Czech: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. 2 minutes break, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 45 to 15 minutes 48]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act of 6 January 2000 on the Ombudsman for the Rights of the Child Ombudsman shall appoint the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Sejm appointed Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska to this position, and the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in print No. 979. I would like to welcome Mrs Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, the Sejm's spokesperson for the rights of the child, to the Senate. Hello, Minister. Very cordial. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of your senators like to ask Ms. Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska or ask for explanations? [[Senator Szymanski wants to.]] Senator Szymanski, Senator Ryszka. Good. Please, Minister, come here to the podium. Senator Augustine. Good. Let's write that down. Yes, you're welcome. And you ask Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Spokesman! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a few questions and, above all, ask you about the priorities of the Ombudsman's office under your direction. In particular, I would like to ask you what concept you take of this office? Over the past years, this office has largely turned into an institution similar to social assistance, which helps in individual cases, which controls courts, although the courts are controlled in a different way. And before that, it was mainly the conduct of general cases, cases concerning the generals of the rights of the child. So are you closer to this concept of a small office, but of a child's rights and indicating to you in which areas they are neglected, or the one I mentioned earlier? That is a specific question, but it is generally about the priorities of the office under your direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u162	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u163	I think these two directions are not mutually exclusive, Senator. I mean, I would like to take both individual interventions, because I think that this office is primarily designed for this, and that's what the word "juror" refers to, that is, the spokesperson of the rights of the child, as well as the system solutions, that is to say, to deal with what is used to be called general speeches, because they result from these individual interventions, they are not abstract, they come from things that have accumulated. Of course, the dissemination of knowledge about the rights of the child and their methods of protection is one of the statutory tasks of the Ombudsman, so that I think that this will also be an important direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u164	Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Spokesperson, I have a question for you. Explain to me what happened in the Seym that you lost that first vote. What was the manipulation? 'Cause it's been commented on differently in the press. Explain it to me, but that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u166	Thank you very much. Please, does the Minister have anything to say about this, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u167	Yes. It's not gonna be hard, Senator. It's obvious to me. Using the phrase that it should, I don't know, postulate euthanasia, I said that those who promote abortion, also eugenic abortion, should in fact, they, not I, should post euthanasia. I wanted to show you a direction in the development of eugenic thinking, that was my message back then. That was the final statement after a longer speech. The entire programme concerned the protest of the guardians of the disabled in the Sejm, and the question of the conductor concerned the hypocrisy of the Members who introduced those protesters. So that's all I meant. I'm not a fan of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u169	Minister, every time the Ombudsman reported here, I claimed children with special educational and educational needs. The Polish school prefers the interest of the teacher and his employment rather than those of the children for various reasons for years. About 10 and 15% These are children who fail to keep up with the material, move to the next class and are released from school without proper preparation. Do you have a plan of action in this area? In my opinion, this is the day-to-day harm to children who can't keep up, and for whom there's too little to offer to catch up with their peers and bring out their talents, because they probably are too. The second question concerns the application of physical penalties. It's always been controversial. I wonder what your approach to the so-called case is. Slap. And last but not least... the Senate, and especially my committee, the Family and Social Policy Committee, have been a place of great dispute over the rights of the child many times. In particular, the paternity associations raised the issue of unequal treatment by courts when granting care. What's your attitude towards alternate care?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u170	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u171	Thank you, Senator, especially for this first question, concerning education, the right of children to learn. For years, I have been working for the weakest students, students with disabilities. This is about 3% of children in Polish schools, depending on the level of education. The senator refers to a slightly wider group of these students, to those who are less educationally educated and who do not have a disability ruling. These are often children who are affected by more than one problem. Often they are simply children from dysfunctional backgrounds and here this help must be comprehensive. But I must say that my experience with Polish schools, as if a little paradoxical in relation to this activity, are good experiences. I mean, I think we have a pretty good education law, and what happens at school level is often due to ignorance, helplessness and educators, and families, and above all children. There's a good psychological-pedagogical aid system. Children who do not have judgments are covered by this scheme and have recently received this assistance on the basis of a decision of the school head. He may employ specialists, he may also use teachers or school teachers to provide this assistance. And the other thing that... [[You're welcome.]] It's a matter of the leading bodies. I think I'm gonna have to work with the local authorities, and if there's any business here, it'll also give me a sumptuous system thinking about how to seal it. Because it's a duty. And we, as parents' NGOs, fought very hard for the school principal to have an obligation under the law to ensure the implementation of the recommendations from the clinic, and the leading authority had an obligation to provide the organisational and financial formula in the law. I'm proud of it, and I think it's gonna be my eyeball. What I like about the work of the Ministry of Education at the moment is the emphasis on the individualisation of the education process, not to be confused with individual teaching. Individualisation is an individual approach to each student, his educational needs and his development needs, and if you look at more widely, it also takes into account his family situation. When it comes to physical punishment, I am opposed to physical punishment. As for the rights of fathers to communicate with children... This problem has been raised to me since I appeared as a candidate. This is a problem that affects a large group of people and is very severe for those parents who are excluded from contact with the child. I'm sure I'm going to want to work with all the organizations that do this, and get to know it. It also seems to me that the Ministry of Justice may be a key partner for me, because here is the question of how family courts work. But I have to declare that for me, however, the person I'm going to focus on is going to be a child, not a parent. A parent as much as he needs a child. And not to break that bond from the child's point of view. In situations where contact with a parent may be detrimental to the child because it threatens his life, health and safety, the courts of course decide to restrict parental authority. But this is a subject that is definitely worth exploring and that is the kind of cooperation with other institutions that are working on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, then Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have a question for you. Well, many parents are very concerned about this action that will be on Friday. I'm thinking so-called Rainbow Friday. Many parents feel helpless and feel that the school, in their opinion, is subjected to some ideology, promotion of some values or antivalues with which they absolutely disagree. Would you, as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, wish in the future a change of regulation, in this case legal, that any indoctrination at school, regardless of who is doing it and which way was it simply, so to speak, subject to such conditions as not to give rise to doubts, and also not to divisions? Because right now... I know situations from some Warsaw high schools, where there are divisions and unnecessary tensions among young people. So this action, which is intended to serve tolerance, is synonymous with antitolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u174	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u175	Mr. Senator, I found out about this action in the Seym when I was asked about it. I didn't know what Rainbow Friday was. And that's a sign to me, too, that... well, if I didn't know, that means maybe it's not some common action. I know that this applies to about 200 schools in Poland. However, it seems to me that these matters are clearly governed by the article. 48 Constitution, which states that parents have the right to raise children according to their own beliefs. And it's the law that's protected. I think it's obvious that children aren't allowed to indoctrinate. I do not identify with this initiative, it is incomprehensible to me and I see no reason to pay so much attention to it and indirectly promote it in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u176	Thank you very much. [[I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Marshal.]] Please. [[Voice from the room: It's in the next...]] It's in the next round, let's get in line. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u177	Thank you. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child under the law has the power to participate in legal proceedings, legal proceedings relating to the child. Many parents, who care for children, attach great importance and importance to this possibility. I, too, have had such complaints, and I appreciate the role of the ombudsman in this. I'd like to ask you how you're gonna organize this kind of work. This applies not only to courts in Warsaw, because in all Poland, courts competent in matters of children. How are you going to organize this work in the context of the participation of your representatives, because you will not be able to take care of the whole of Poland personally? Are these gonna be the employees who are gonna be at your office on the board, or are they gonna be the people you're gonna sign contracts with and cooperate with? I mean, of course, people who are authorized to do this kind of work, that is, lawyers. How's that gonna be organized in your office? Do you also attach great importance to this issue of fair participation in legal proceedings concerning children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u178	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u179	Of course I do, Senator. It seems to me that this is an important competence associated with this office, used in situations where other means fail. This type of procedure may also be initiated. As for the technical issues, I don't know how it's gonna be organized yet, I don't know what I'm gonna find at the office. I know the structure of this office, I know on the basis of reports how it worked so far, but I don't know what it looks like inside, what the employees are like, what their skills are, what their professional experience is. I'm sure we'll talk about it. This is going to be one of the first things I'm going to do to review the existing activities, the good and bad practices of this office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u181	I would very much like to ask you to present the five things that you consider to be the most important, the most urgent, and which you will want to take care of. It's about the five most important things you think you're going to take care of in this honorable capacity. I'd also like to ask you about your assessment... We had such discussions here about maternity and father leave, this division. Some senators thought it was better for mothers to take care of their children. If you were to comment on this, you presented your view of these matters... Can a father take care of a child as well as a mother? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u182	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u183	I'll start with that first question. I think there are five cases that are already a lot of priorities. For me from the beginning, it is important to reach out directly to those who need this office, namely children and parents who are statutory representatives of children, and a wider environment, i.e. adults at all. What hit me when I read the reports, when I looked at the way the office works, in the sense of the path of reaching... It seems a little archaic to me. And that is the thing that I would like to do relatively quickly, so that this office is simply more accessible. Of course, there is this child's phone of trust, which is extremely important and is a universal path of reporting problems, but it seems to me that nowadays it is equally important or perhaps already more important, the path of reaching children. They use phones less and less often as phones, but rather as communicators, smartphones are getting to them through social media, i.e. through the profile of the spokesperson on Facebook, the profile of the spokesman on Twitter, on Instagram. And that's something I'd like to do so the baby can get to us as soon as possible, because this office is for children. Of course, I would like adults to be able to reach us, too, with other problems already, and to have a different kind of message addressed to adults. Adults, of course, need to be informed about certain problems, which require social campaigns. This is my first idea of getting this path straightened out. But of course, as I said in answer to the question you asked earlier, there will be individual interventions here. Only on the basis of these interventions will there be a certain categorisation of the cases reported, and in terms of their species weight, and in terms of the extent, that is, how many children are involved. Systemic action will then be taken to prevent the repetition of problems. Of course, legislation will have to be followed. I think it would be a mistake to report these interventions when a bill has already been passed. I am very anxious to monitor the implementation of the laws that are already in place. There's a lot of solutions right now when it comes to disabled children... I'm pretty well-informed about these things. A lot of good things have worked out, but all of this requires monitoring so that it takes root in the system. Also at the stage of drafting legislation, you will have to keep your hand on the pulse in order to implement it sufficiently early. Second question... Sorry, I missed the takeover. [[He's taking care of his father.]] He's taking care of his father. The kids have two parents, it's biology. There are many wonderful fathers. It seems to me that we are seeing a very good trend in the fact that fathers are taking care of children in an increasingly better way, increasingly intense way and that they have a great need to communicate with children. I think it's changing faster than generations. I consider it a good solution to introduce parental leave without prejudging which parent will take care of the little child. I think there's a lot of fathers who can handle it no worse than mothers. The exception here is like one thing. It's women who carry a baby, they're pregnant, and it's women who breast-feed. In these activities, mothers are irreplaceable, and I believe that these are the reasons for promoting maternity care as long as possible. As far as I know, fathers take less of this vacation than the legislator expected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Senator Augustine is still asking for the floor. [[Me too.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u185	Thank you very much, Marshal. In fact, I would like to refer to the question asked by Senator Augustine. It is about alternate care. Courts have a very different understanding of alternate care. There are situations like this that have come to me in this matter I have a couple of things that come down to the fact that a child is constantly circling between his father's house and his mother's house. Let's just say he's supposed to be at his dad's every other weekend, he's supposed to be at his dad's house for one week... sometimes one side, whether it's mom or dad, he can't provide care for the baby. Will you, in your capacity, be able to examine, say, court judgments and conduct an analysis that allows the child to have a permanent home from which he can come and return? It cannot be moved every 2, 3 days and be once in one parent, once in another. Do you have any more knowledge about this? I'd like to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u186	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u187	I know there's a problem. If it's about the test, I'm sure I'm gonna want to take care of it. Any problem that arises in the course of such activity... As a sociologist, I'm always willing to investigate the problem before it's solved. Replacement care, I think, is a little bit of a result of the fact that we treat a child as a resource that is divisible in a situation where parents part. Everyone wants this baby to be their own, everyone thinks they have the right to have the baby. I believe that this child has rights and I will uphold the rights of the child, not the rights of parents to manage the child. Of course, there is a Bible story about King Solomon's wise judgment. There it was about 2 mothers, but this story clearly shows that a parent who really cares about the welfare of a child and for whom the child's welfare is the highest value, sees the situation as a whole. I will certainly want to be interested in family courts, also because Mark Michalak's draft amendment to the code or a new document of the family code also refers to the way the courts operate. This is one of the elements contained in the explanatory memorandum. I think there's a whole area here to explore, to explain, to propose some solutions, of course, in cooperation with the government, with the Ministry of Justice. [[Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u188	Yes, please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u189	Excuse me, one more thing I'm gonna ask you. Does a child have the right to express the will that parents want to be with permanently?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u190	Legally, he has the right to express his will, not always the courts allow it, but there are rules that govern it. [[Whatever your age?]] [[Are there any regulations...]] The rules are, but the practice, as we know, is different.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u191	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u192	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask. Of course, you are right about the constitutional standard that guarantees parents' ability to raise their children according to their beliefs. This is enshrined in the article of the Constitution. The Education Act also clarifies parents' rights in this respect. But the practice is, unfortunately, I have such signals that the organizers, before they entered the school, did not obtain individual consent from individual parents to carry out their actions, promotions, lectures, talks and other such activities. And actually, after obtaining the approval of the school principal, who says, after all, the alisters should be willing to carry out this kind of action... But it wasn't physically done. In theory, the parent may later turn to the parole board, pay attention to it, but the situation is that the milk has already spilled, it has already happened. Don't you think that there should be some clarification of the laws in this respect, in order to make it clear that if anyone goes into school with anything, it must be written consent of their parents? Parents make statements as to whether they want their child to attend religious classes, ethics, or upbringing in the family. The child attends such classes after receiving written consent from his parents. Shouldn't this system be extended, or shouldn't it be similar here? That's my first question, I'm asking about the statutory guarantee. And the second question is, what kind of interventions would you have taken, as an active spokesman, after this rainbow Friday, if your parents were to address you with remarks, outrageously? To us, at least as a senator, these signals are coming to me, and it's hard for me to react to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u193	Okay, Mr. Senator, because it's been too long. [[Thank you.]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u194	I think there's a problem here... There is a constitutional standard, but it is not respected. Then you'd have to ask what the role of law in creating behavior is. It seems to me that today we are more and more often dealing with above-basic schools than with younger children, with flash mob events. They're screaming on Facebook that they're gonna wear rainbow clothes and then... What? Nobody comes to school. So it is not such a simple problem, but I think it deserves to be looked at, also in the context of such educational, broader and not just tightening the rules. In my opinion, the cause is deeper.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u195	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u196	The Minister, during the presentation of the last report, expressed such an opinion, several senators said that the powers of the Ombudsman are too great. The ideas presented here were to subpoena this office to the Ombudsman. Such opinions were expressed here. I'd like you to address that. Since we all knew there was going to be a change, I took it as a perhaps announcement of some legislative changes in this area. And it is the Senate that has several times contributed to increasing the powers of the Ombudsman and we are very pleased, at least I am very pleased with these changes, judging by how they have proved necessary. That's the first question. And the second point is also the question, and I may draw attention to Mr Szymański here about the Father's Letter competition, organized by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Affairs of the Senate since several terms. This competition has always enjoyed the patronage of the Ombudsman. Will such a patronage continue to be possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u197	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u198	As far as the construction of the office is concerned, the discussion around the office of the Ombudsman has a story as long as the office itself, or maybe even longer. She was turbulent at first, and then another clearance was added... The discussion returns with every report, and it is good, because every legal solution must be reviewed and reflected. So I think it is a question of assessing what is the need for these solutions. It is difficult for me to assess this at the moment, but as I follow this activity on the basis of reports, it seems to me that these additional powers were needed and used. But to be honest, I would most like this office not to be needed at all, so that no intervention is necessary so that we have the right and that children have their rights so guaranteed, so protected that no additional office is needed. And it's my ambition to keep things down from year to year. About the second question... Mr. Marek Michalak had about 300 patronages last year, and I just don't know them all. It's probably gonna have to be settled on an ongoing basis. But if there's anything close to me that deserves a patronage, and above all, this patronage will do something. 'Cause when it comes to patronage, it's not about putting an extra logo on posters, it's about making sense. I'm sure I'll join in. [[We recommend you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u199	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Because your marshal initially called for questions, but also comments and opinions, because, as I understand, there will be no debate, I would first of all like to congratulate the Minister on taking up this role. I am very pleased that, in the second round, the Sejm, Members of the second round, reflected and the excellent majority of your vote became your spokesperson. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your brief declaration today, which shows very strongly one thing: that as a fundamental right of the child, you treat the right to life, and it is a child understood just as the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child says, from conception. This clarity about abortion and euthanasia of young children with disabilities speaks very strongly. I'm probably one of the few, or maybe the only one in this room who's seen your speech, which has become the subject of misunderstanding in the Seym. I must say that the interpretation which was presented by one messenger in the Seym proves either extreme stupidity or disgusting vileness. It's up to you. It was quite obvious to me, because at the moment I knew about your candidacy, like many others, I was looking for information on the Internet and I found this speech. And that's how I interpret it. I'm so glad you're so clear about this. Just killing a baby before and after birth is the same thing. That's how I understand what you're saying today. And that's very strong. Thank you for that. [[Advocate for Children's Rights Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, appointed by the Sejm: Thank you.]] And as for the questions, I have two. First of all, we are in the process of implementing the law... you can say, such an acceleration of the implementation of the 2011 Child Welfare Act until the age of 3, namely the government programme The competitions for the issue of about 450 or 500 million PLN per year. In fact, this project is all about building more day care or providing more and more children with a place in daycare and, so to speak, giving Polish children up to the age of 3. [[Question, Mr. Senator, please. So full of it.]] Yes. And my question is, do you not see the need for you to be more supportive of those parents who choose to raise their children at home, and to do so, for example. A patronage voucher? I would like to draw attention to Professor Kośny's research, which indicates that we have children who take care of them at home, go back to work only a little later. Second question, very short. Do you see the possibility of reopening smoking bans for adults in cars that drive children?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u201	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u202	If it's about babysitting, I'll say I'm from a multi-children's family. I have three children, so I watched this problem from both sides. I think we've changed a little bit about the family model. It's not just a question of being a child with a mother, it's also about being a child among your peers. I'm not talking about babies or babies, but it seems to me that two-year-olds just appreciate the company of their peers. This depends on their temperament, their character and individual needs. However, it seems to me that the "Milch +" programme needs to be developed, especially since it has been added to the component of enabling more care for disabled children. This is important, because for these children, peers often find it incredibly stimulating. Of course, a lot depends on the forms of care here, because the kind of care I remember, from my time, it's completely different. At the moment, they're small, several-member groups with a couple of babysitters. Of course, a better environment for a child will be a home, not only because it is in the family, but also because it is in its own environment. A little guy like that, going to a nursing home, to an outside group, he just has to get up in the morning, get dressed and leave the house like adults who go to work. Of course, for a child under 3 years of age, the most important thing is that they have greenhouse conditions at home, but, as I say, for development reasons, the older the child is, the more he needs such forms. I'll take a look at the publication that the senator mentioned. I don't know her, but I think that's the right direction. [[She was presented in the Seym at a joint team meeting...]] [[In the pro-family team.]] There's so many bands that you can't follow everything. But this is an interesting direction and I'm going to get to know this material. Sorry, I didn't write the second question again. [[Smoking in the car.]] Smoking in the car. We know what the harmfulness of smoking is. Of course, I will do everything I can to limit the exposure of children to factors that medicine long ago determined to be harmful.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! I have a question for you. You may not answer, but I'm very curious. It's about trying to evaluate, about the pros and cons of your predecessor. What would you like to improve, develop, improve? So on the one hand, I'm asking for an evaluation, and on the other hand, I'm asking for an evaluation. What you would like to strengthen in this office and to pay particular attention to. I'm asking about Michalak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u205	Minister Michalak. Does the Minister want to answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u206	Of course. I think that being the head of such an office for 10 years, being a spokesperson, causes a certain continuation, but also causes this institution to become to a large extent an office and fall into a certain routine. I think such resets, refreshes are always good. I think we differ from Minister Michalak in personal, professional, social, perhaps temperamental, approach to solving problems. I worked with NGOs. Everything I've done about children, especially children with disabilities It's my main area of interest, and I've done it socially. That's my nature. I think I'm gonna be really involved in solving problems. I'll also be very involved in communication. I would very much like to create an office where a cell that is responsible for widely understood social communication, because also with adults, will be a very strong cell. I don't want to create another office that's gonna become a habit of losing momentum. I just wish it was such a dynamic entrance. I don't know how much I can judge all this. I think the evaluation will largely come from within.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u207	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the Minister would like to add? No. Thank you very much. [[Advocate for Children's Rights Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, appointed by the Sejm: Thank you very much.]] Senator Antoni Szymanski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about two areas. Are they close to you? Do you have any thoughts on that? Will they be particularly important to you? In Poland, there are a large number of children in the foster care system, over 70,000 children. On the one hand, we pride ourselves on the family system that is actually being implemented, but on the other hand, the system has stabilised at a very high level. Do you see the need to minimize the number of children in this system and not to be content with the fact that it decreases by maybe a few hundred children a year when it really should decrease radically? By the way, we are radically increasing the number of employees in this system, we are setting up new professions, and at the same time the number of children who are shrinking is not congruent to this. That's the first issue. And the second is about what was asked in a way, but I would like to ask you directly. Are you going to strongly expose the right of the child to be raised by both parents? Because this is a very serious problem, because more and more children are raised alone. It is not just a matter of alternate care, one or another, but simply promoting, also through legal solutions, various activities, so that children have real care and concern from both parents every day, because that is my belief in their law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u209	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u210	I am very close to the issue of foster care due to its scope, because it is 70,000 children, but also to the problems that the Ministry signals in the reports. Already in the 2016 report there was a problem with the falling number of adoptions of children up to the first year of age, which does not mean that children requiring such adoption are less. These children are in foster care, but they are less willing to accept these children. And what is also troubling The Ministry also indicated that this should be the subject of reflection by all institutions It is a decrease in the number of adoptions for which it is called. Blanket approval, which means there is no disclosure of the identity of the child. There are some assumptions as to what this might mean: it can be about having children on order, giving them up to designated foster parents. This is an area that is very difficult. I also think that these children are minimally protected, as if there is no one to act on their behalf. Of course, most of these children, those 70,000 with a piece, are lucky to be in foster care because there are about 50,000 in it. This is a good solution that has been developing in Poland for years. And it's still developing. However, of course, the burden of institutional care should continue to be translated into family care, also because of the costs, because the most expensive form is the institutional substitute care. She's inevitable in some cases, but that's not the right direction. So that's one of the things I'm sure I'm gonna be looking into because the kids need it. When it comes to the right of a child to both parents, of course. This results from biology, and from educational, developmental needs, all developmental pedagogy emphasizes this. It's just, unfortunately, life isn't always the parents that stay together. And in a situation where parents live in two homes, the child is confronted with a certain problem. I have to say - What did I say? That, of course, the child has the right to a mother and to a father, but the fact that they are brought up by non-married people... Coming back or referring to this foster care, I'm gonna say there's a lot of things for single people to do. And what you might think might be unfavorable for a child, however, is a better form than leaving your child in institutional care. For me, the example that I think we should all bear in mind is Sister Małgorzata Chmielewska and her disabled son, who has with her as in heaven. This is an example of a single person who has become a surrogate mother to a child who had absolutely no chance. It's like entering this area of institutional custody... But of course, the baby needs mom and dad. There is no doubt about what is best for the child here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Madam Ombudsperson in spe, I do not give in to your charms as you did Senator Radziwił, although I see you as determined, so the questions will be a bit more difficult. The first part of it is already circling here. The question is whether you have any thoughts on how to move away from the model of motherhood primarily for the full but also with a strong fatherly option, currently neglected. I'm not just asking because you're a woman, and there might be a question as to whether you're capable of this experience of your father's involvement, of your father's large presence in the family promoting. Second question: do you intend, like other ombudsman, exclusively to defend the rights of children persecuted, beaten, subjected to other deviants, not to mention that the child, apart from having rights, still has responsibilities that serve the balanced upbringing of the child in the family? The third question is related to the first one. Poland is a record holder in the area of non-alimentation, read: giving hundreds of thousands of children to the sole... their opinion on the sole care and material resources of the mother, partly only the state. Your thoughts, your assessment of the current maintenance system and the amounts currently spent, and the blockage of these amounts? And last but not least, it's even harder. Today's governments are increasing the option to increase consumption of alcoholic beverages among children and young people, and especially among girls The habit of smoking. What are your thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u213	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u214	I don't think I understand the last question. I don't think it's the first one either, but I'm gonna talk to him somehow, but about the last one... I don't know if any regulations have been changed in terms of... [[Well, you're thinking about growing up...]] [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska: Aha, okay...]] [[...the consumption of alcoholic beverages among children and young people and smoking addiction, especially among girls.]] [[So it's about how to counter it, isn't it?]] [[Yes.]] The first question about your father's involvement in the family... I don't think that's a difficult question. The bar isn't too high yet, Mr. Senator. [[But reality is different.]] The reality is different and, of course, the problems with the collection of alimony are also evidence of this. I believe that we, as a society, still have a lesson to learn from showing the responsibility of both parents for the material existence of the child, for his development and for his participation in the educational process. All the more so because a child raised in a family shapes the picture of relations between people in general in society, so if a father does not set a good example, it is a developmental loss for the child. No doubt you're right that this father's involvement is sometimes overlooked. [[It's about thinking. It's not about... it's about your thoughts.]] I have thoughts of what I have observed from my surroundings, from my experience, also in the field of non-governmental activities for children with disabilities, where I have met really fantastic fathers. Partly I think that there's a myth that fathers leave their families where there's a disabled child, because I know a lot of great fathers who stand around these families and get cut up for their children. I believe that this is also a matter of promoting certain attitudes. About the children's duties... Well, developmental psychology also says that children who have responsibilities, even very modest, even if it is, I don't know, unpacking the dishwasher, hanging the laundry or taking out the garbage, thus shaping their future participation in society, so some responsibilities must be imposed on them. This is an element of educational influence. Of course, the Ombudsman has nothing to do with this, but this model is a socially beneficial model, apart from all other considerations. Aliments are a very heavy subject. Of course, women who are left alone with a child must not be allowed to have the means to live. I think there's still a lot of work to do here, too. That's it. [[What about addictions?]] The addictions... [[Alcoholism.]] Well, Mr. Senator, I often see young girls with a bottle of beer, whether by the sea, where beer cools in wet sand washed with waves or on Mokotowski Field, where this beer is drunk by young girls on benches. And as I see it, I always think about the fact that one of the problems that the previous spokesperson has taken, but which have not yet been solved and are growing in Poland, is the occurrence in newborn fetal alcohol syndrome and other diseases. Because this is an extreme example when a woman drinks more or regularly during pregnancy, but there are children who are just damaged during pregnancy by alcohol. And the fact that it's happening and that it's growing... Often these children are placed in foster care and are often adopted without parents knowing. I know such examples from my surroundings as well. Only then does it become apparent that the child is disabled and later reveals why. So the problem is, this is a social problem and this is a problem that deserves a big social campaign. So that not punishing women for drinking alcohol, not imposing further sanctions... I don't really believe that there's a right to settle everything. I believe that people are worth showing the consequences of their actions. Those girls who allow themselves to drink, these pregnant women underestimate this threat. We just need to know what this can do, what the risk is to the child and to the family associated with such behaviors. About smoking the same thing... Except, as far as I'm concerned, this syndrome doesn't develop, but there's hypoxia and there's other health problems in the baby.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u215	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u216	I would like to say that smoking harms both the girls and the boys, Mr. Senator... [[But now they're smoking more girls.]] And I don't know that. I would also like to refer to one of the senators who particularly watched this film... I also watched a video of you saying it, and I would like to say that I understood it as you did at the beginning of your speech. So that I had no doubts here. I would like to draw your attention to the senator's statement that, unfortunately, not only one person has succumbed... Unfortunately, many, including from other groups, went uncritically to some information that appeared in the media or misinterpreted it. I'm gonna go to a specific question. I would also like to ask you to address the issue of violence. Mr. Senator mentioned it, but I don't think it happened. I believe that violence is probably not increasing, but we are still being bombarded with information about cases of violence against children in state institutions, cases of violence unfortunately in the family, cases of violence in children's homes, institutions. We hear about cases of sexual harassment, etc. This applies, as in the whole world, to state institutions, for example. Children's homes, and church institutions. Unfortunately, such cases are being revealed recently. I would like to ask you to address the role that the Ombudsman has to play here, the way you intend to deal with this, as you see the opportunity to improve this situation. Well, that's actually hard to deal with. We live in the 21st century and children are still subjected, in different places, to various forms of violence in a civilized country in the middle of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u217	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u218	Violence is one of the big topics, big issues related to children's speech, with the Office of the Ombudsperson. Act in Art. 3 (1) (a) 2 and 3 say that the Ombudsman is to act to protect rights and to protect against violence, including from corruption. That's right on the bill. I'm talking about it because the senator also mentioned sexual crimes. This, of course, is an area of interest in the Ombudsman. How can this be countered? Well, the basic path is, of course, the activities of the relevant services that intervene in such a case. In a situation where something like this happens, a child and a parent A mother or guardian often needs a quick intervention path. And I would like to share the path of reporting such problems very quickly, including institutional violence problems, and give these people tools in the form of ready-made informants, ready-to-be algorithms in this case. It seems to me that what we still lack is a way of acting in the context of enforcing our rights, awareness of our rights and the enforcement of these rights. In cases of violence, people often do not realize that their rights are being violated at this point in time. As far as institutional violence is concerned, I must say that there is a problem here, which is perhaps a niche problem, but very significant. The point is that family courts indicate that they are being asked to exercise parental authority in the case of students with disabilities. This is reported by schools that do not cope with the difficult behavior of these children, and in this situation the family that raises such a child is vulnerable and to the school and to the court. This is often an action taken to induce parents to behave in a specific way, usually to take a child out of school or to refrain from demanding that the child's rights under educational law be exercised. So that's the problem at the interface between education and justice. This is about institutional violence. Such a family, of course, requires environmental support, not stigmatizing and sending a probation officer, who then suddenly appears on the doorstep of the house. So there's a lot of areas where there's violence and there's helplessness associated with this violence. Of course, a separate issue is cyber-violence. This is also something that we are witnessing, and I think we need a social campaign aimed at the victims of cyber violence. And cyber-vibration in the most simplistic way is that children film each other's cells, film peer violence, put it on the Internet and destroy each other. My friends, my friends are destroying each other like this. Mental problems or suicides often result from such behaviors. [[If you don't mind my asking, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u219	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u220	I just have a brief question about the Church. Tell me, do you think the spokesperson should, for example? to engage in some dialogue with the Church, to address the Church in matters concerning sexual harassment, these detected cases, or do you think that the Church is capable of dealing with this problem itself. Are you going to wait, or are you going to take any action on this as a spokesman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u221	I'm a long way from linking child abuse to any institution. The church recently took some action, there were several loud speeches of bishops addressed to the diocese, to priests. I think this problem is well publicized right now, and the Church is an institution that will deal with it somehow. Sexual violence always affects a particular child and in any case is reprehensible, in any case it simply requires law enforcement. There are other environments in which such crimes have been reported out loud. These are e.g. Some theatre dorms, sports clubs, schools, so that's not the problem of one institution. It seems to me that this particular institution is visible, is being watched closely, but the problem is simply that children come into contact with adult criminals in different places.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u223	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I have not noticed the special activity of your predecessors in this area, and I believe that he is important for the exercise of the mandate of the Ombudsman. I'm thinking about the violence that comes out in the media. Do you, in your vision of this office, see the need for e.g. Any consultations? You do not have any specific competence in this area, but there is, however, a national Radio and Television Council which has some control powers over the media. Does the Minister see any possibility of cooperation here? Do you feel that way? Do you think this is important? I am talking about media violence to cooperate with other public institutions responsible for this area in applying the standards that are applied in many countries, and in countries with established democracy. Because it's not about taking someone's freedom, it's about protecting those for whom the wrong message can be traumatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u224	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u225	Of course, thank you for the tip, because that's a problem. This problem is often difficult to solve, because children are also confronted with this violence in media, which are neither governed by regulations nor by the National Council, i.e. in electronic media. They look for different content, and then these content comes to them themselves. But I think, at least at the level of radio and television broadcasting, it will certainly be worth leaning on this together with the National Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u226	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of the many questions I have chosen at the end only one, because, as the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, we will have the opportunity to invite you when you settle in this office and you will already know where you will particularly want to go. And in this debate, I would like to ask you one more thing. Namely, we raise by example parents, neighbors, teachers, but also by example, which goes from politicians. This example is often non-parliamental. I say it in parliament. This is because voltage and polarisation are very high. Sometimes words that fall are wrong and set an example. Do you see this possibility in the future to appeal to politicians to make them aware that the language they use is sometimes a language that does not necessarily affect development well? I am also saying this in the context of the subject of violence that has been raised here. Which means that certain wordings, which then penetrate into consciousness, are not beneficial for the development of children.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u228	I am pleased to hear such a proposal from within Parliament, because it shows that such reflection also appears here, perhaps especially in the Senate. And most of these behaviors, I'd say, impulsive ones are observed in the Seym. Of course it is a problem, but I also think it is worth raising awareness among children and young people when it comes to learning about society, about political activity, about the mechanisms behind it. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And what the system of governance is all about. I think it's something that children need to be shown. Also, what risks are involved. This is certainly not an upbuilding example in many cases. I can only share this regret.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u230	I'd like to refer to the previous question, perhaps. I am the chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which also has a problem of raising children and young people in the field of its activities, and we also have such a senate task force. upbringing children and young people. I would like to say that already in 2007 in the Senate we adopted a resolution on the need to build an educational atmosphere in Poland, in which it was adopted And there was also a speech there, among others. We talked about the need to build social consent around upbringing and the need to raise everything. And I would like to ask my question in this way. Often, in the public perception, the role of the Ombudsman is associated with various interventions, but I understand that there is also a need for some prevention. How do you see such preventive or even deeply preventive actions here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u231	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u232	I think direct prevention is not such a sphere as medicine, that you can prevent something, rather you can talk about some soft prevention. And this is sealing institutional solutions, because if there are problems with the enforcement of children's rights, they have some reasons. Either it's a defectively constructed rule that doesn't prevent child rights from being violated, or it's some kind of social, cultural condition, or the law is good, and something doesn't work elsewhere. So I think this is the kind of analysis that I was talking about at first, looking at what the conditions are, what are the causes of these problems that occur most often, and those problems that are the most important that are the biggest threat... This then leads to the possibility of proposing some holistic solutions that will address the root causes of the problem and not just its manifestations. Right? That's when it comes to the analogy between prevention and medicine. You have to see where this problem is born. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u233	Professor wants to ask you a question? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u234	I'm still talking. Following what has been said, there are two main areas or two main tools of the Ombudsman. It is on the one hand this intervention activity, on the other hand General speeches. These general speeches mainly concern certain legal solutions which are either wrong or simply do not exist. I have to say that I've always been interested, I've always cared about it, and on the occasion of the next annual reports of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, I've been asking about it, possibly I've also expressed my opinions, because these incidents are so much... And then man's whole attention is focused on it. However, these general speeches concern a huge number of people and, in principle, the expansion of this area of good seems to be the best prevention. So here's my question: how do you see the proportions between ad hoc activities and these very general speeches, which are extremely important?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u235	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u236	I strongly agree with the senator, but in order to formulate general speeches, you need to know what they are about. Even if the effectiveness of this, say, is greater because it affects a larger group of children who can be helped by one well-chosen solution, then we need to know what needs to be reformed. So that I would be here on the analytical side looking at what appears in these individual interventions and why it appears. And, of course, general speeches can be formulated on this basis. The fact that somebody's gonna report a problem is gonna say that there's a... It seems to me that getting acquainted with the problem itself, without observing any negative effects at the level of specific cases, can simply prove to be an impossible effort. So that I would rather use the induction method to bring out these individual cases of action at the general level. But it's not like that here either. Because individual interventions and general speeches are such a nice division, and that's going to catch up. I also think that all the communication activities on which I am betting on this third trend... This is where social campaigns are created in a situation where legal solutions are good and for some reason Let's say that, for example, Women drink when they're pregnant. There is also an area for action in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u237	Thank you. Senator Czesław Ryszka. And then there's Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask your opinion on a problem that is now, let's say, a hot potato, namely the preventive vaccination of children. Your predecessor even slayed his parents and threatened to take the children away by handing them over to foster care. But for example. The moral responsibility of parents for a vaccine that was born on the basis of children conceived after abortion... Well, that's the problem. What position will you take on this matter? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Vaccinate or not vaccinate?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u239	I have this feeling that on the one hand we are dealing with ignorance, with ignorance concerning e.g. those undesirable vaccination reactions, which are stressed by those organisations that have recently spoken about this law in the Sejm. It is real that vaccinations can minimally cause such adverse reactions under certain conditions. On the other hand, it is also true that these reactions occur in the case of a certain susceptibility or when the child is not fully studied in the paediatric field, when there are conditions. We have little knowledge, little talk about it, above all, that these are reactions that can be prevented. However, it is also true that certain vaccinations prevent diseases that then affect the entire population. It's not just a question of individual parents' freedom, it's a question of vaccination or not vaccination. There's an upward trend right now, there's thousands of parents who don't vaccinate their children. However, the problem of infectious diseases that come back also applies to other children. We know that in some countries, there is a requirement that the child must have a vaccination calendar completed according to the dates that are foreseen there so that it can be admitted to the educational establishment. So there is a problem in other countries, too. We also have quite a large immigration from the East, where these vaccinations are not as guarded as they are with us. So it's not like someone's behind vaccinations or against vaccinations. I think we need it here. also information campaigns specifically on NOP, i.e. those undesirable vaccination reactions. Besides, I think my parents... My generation still remembers what some of the diseases that vaccinations prevent looked like. However, it seems to me that younger generations are simply unaware of the effects of these diseases. And the effects of vaccines on a quantitative scale... These are, of course, often human dramas, but human dramas also result from the abuse of drugs available without a prescription, which we buy for power. Poland is a very attractive market for pharmaceutical companies, we are filling ourselves with medicines available without a prescription. And there are side effects here too, after all, children also take these medicines. So it's a question of taking a debate, showing the facts, and kind of making these parents aware that there are risks to the lack of vaccination and there are risks to vaccination. And the state is obliged to protect society from an epidemiological threat. That's exactly what Art says. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u240	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u241	I have listened to this statement about these general speeches and I fear that building them only on the basis of those incidents that were, however, is far too little. Surely the second such area is the opinion of current laws, which are... [[Called by the Sejm Child Rights Ombudsman Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska: Oh, yes. It's the same as...]] ...and it's extremely important, i.e. In the sense that it's a little different to look at the same things. I think that once the Minister has taken office and has read about the last year at least, how many speeches there have been and what these speeches have been, it is as if he will fully understand what I mean. The briefest I could say is that it is a matter of building a certain social sensitivity to these matters. Of course, it can be said that the Ministry of Education is also such a subject, but we know that educational tasks are a huge farm and sometimes it can escape it. I must say that building sensitivity in these areas is extremely important. Well, mostly in decision-makers, politicians, but also in parents, teachers. Of course, it can be said that the teacher's vocation shows this, but we know that it is never enough and that the world is changing dynamically. But to end with a question... We know that Poland was the initiator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but we also know that the government, when signing this Convention, also made certain declarations. If you had said anything about your attitude towards these declarations...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u242	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u243	I think that when it comes to these general speeches, we are very close in our thinking, but maybe from a slightly different perspective we are looking at it. Because general speeches aren't abstract, they're very specific things of different rank. Besides, some of them were very detailed. And when it comes to the opinion of the laws, of course. I've been reviewing a lot of projects. Socially, I've been giving a lot of opinions on projects. The justification and impact assessment are always the most interesting part of the project. I think you can see here, too, that there's a field for discussion and there's a field for showing how important it is. So I think you definitely have to keep your hand on the pulse. As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, I, as a Polish woman, am proud that it is like our contribution to the protection of the rights of the child, global protection or in all countries that have ratified the Convention. The reservations submitted by Poland concerned, among others, the right of adoptive parents not to reveal the identity of the child, i.e. to preserve this anonymity. Well, I don't think there's anything to give up here. Unless the senator has something else in mind. [[Yeah, definitely... may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u244	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u245	Regardless of the convention, regardless of the reservations, there were still so-called. Government declarations on the rights of the child. And this is a very interesting reading. And I must say that the next spokespersons of the rights of the child had a very different attitude to these declarations. And they are extremely, extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u246	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u247	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask you another question about the problem of boosters, which, of course... Pretty alarming are the statistics, the information, what we find out. And I have a question: is the Minister planning to develop an effective strategy of action in this area under your authority? Of course, in cooperation with other institutions, i.e. the police, and the justice system, and educational environments or others. but e.g. action through any positive campaigns showing threats? Because the method of bans or escalation of criminality does not always produce the expected results, so also this educational element is extremely important and these positive social campaigns in this area. How do you see this issue in the perspective of the Ombudsman's role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u248	The problem of boosters is a frightening problem, especially in the case of younger children. He is associated with a natural tendency of young people to experiment, as is the problem of drugs at all, because boosters are only one of the drugs, although maybe the most dangerous, because we know that even once consumption of a substance that is not tested, is not allowed, can end tragically. It seems to me that this is connected with a certain tendency of young people to... with certain problems of young people spending their free time, with forms, with trends in spending their free time. If young people meet "Whether at home or somewhere in a place or in the open air" They either use boosters or help with psychogenic science, this is definitely a topic for social campaigns, as the senator suggested. You used the senator's formulation of positive campaigns. I'm sure they won't be positive... [[In a positive...]] Showing the effects of that, yes. It's also a matter of knowledge. I don't think we're talking about that much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u249	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Advocate for Children's Rights Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, appointed by the Sejm: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Mrs Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, appointed by the Sejm, for answering the questions of the senators. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 972, and the committee report In print No 972 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: This is the last point today?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, it is my pleasure to present a report. The Commission was sitting today, the subject of our deliberations was the act on the creation of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. The law itself is the result of the announcement of the Government of Law and Justice concerning the support of persons with financial disabilities. This will be a tribute, from which the funds will come from two sources. The first is part of the Labour Fund contribution. On a yearly basis, this will be within the range of PLN 650 million, with no additional burden on employees or employers, it will simply be a separate part of this contribution. The second part of this fund is the so-called solidarity tribute, which will be calculated on the basis of the income of people who earn more than PLN 1 million each year from this value above PLN 1 million will pay a premium of 4%. Of course, this assumption will only be implemented in 2020 and the tax will enter in 2019. We estimate that the value of contributions paid by around 21 000 taxpayers, and we estimate that there are so many people who earn more than PLN 1 million, will be within the range of PLN 2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, this fund will be allocated... The legislator in the article. 6 has assumed what these funds will be allocated for, here are three points. They are quite general in nature, which was mentioned at the committee meeting, where such an accusation was constructed, that it is formulated too generally. When we read this article. 6 in extenso, we can learn that the funds from the fund will be earmarked for the implementation of: firstly, government and resort programmes, including the implementation of the own tasks of local government units in support of people with disabilities; secondly, the tasks of promoting and supporting support schemes for people with disabilities; thirdly, the tasks of innovative solutions for support for people with disabilities. During the committee meeting, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Minister Michałkiewicz, explained that in fact these programmes would be adapted to the changing needs of people with disabilities, and they would be constructed in such a way as to, first of all, ensure with these means... To help employment of people with disabilities is very important, because it is not only a matter of income of these people, but also of their professional activation, of their exit from home. And that's what this money's gonna be for. Secondly, there will be funds for respite care. This is a very important part of care, especially in the case of people who are disabled and who are taken care of by the family. These family members will be able to get away from this care for a while. In 24-hour facilities there will be organized places that will receive people with disabilities so that they can provide such rest for a week or two weeks. Another issue that will be implemented under these programmes is health support. This is about adapting sanatoriums and rehabilitation facilities to the needs of people with disabilities. At the moment we have such signals that people with different disabilities cannot fully benefit from the offer which is currently on the health services market in the field of rehabilitation, because institutions are not adapted to their needs. And that's what's gonna change. Finally, these programmes will also develop a personal assistant system so that people with disabilities can function in public life, leave home with support, and assist those who will be employed. The discussion that took place at the committee meeting... Senator Libicki, Senator Rulewski, Senator Augustyn, Senator Orzechowska, Senator Senator Słoń, I also took the floor. These statements actually oscillated on the one hand around the definition itself, the name of the law itself, i.e. the very concept of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities... There were questions about whether it is worth building a new legal formula, since we have a State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and institutions that specialize in helping people with disabilities. There were also doubts and questions about this article I mentioned. 6, in which a general concept of the functioning of tasks in this law is constructed, so that it is possible to deal flexibly with cases occurring. The Commission recommends that you adopt the law without amendment by a majority. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u251	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, is there an estimate of the number of people who will be covered by this tribute? What is the order of magnitude, what number of people according to estimates will be covered by this tribute? And what is the estimated amount of revenue that will be due to this tribute? I'm talking about the number dimension. And how is it going to be technically organized, or is it going to be some kind of subaccount? What will the physical use of these resources be like later? Thank you very much. [[Do we answer or do we group?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u253	We answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u254	Good. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the number of people who will benefit from this solidarity tribute did not fall at the committee meeting. Perhaps the Minister will be able to indicate that number. We have several million people with disabilities in Poland at the moment. These disabilities are very different. It can be presumed that, to varying degrees, people with disabilities will be included in this. It is also a fact that these people with disabilities are coming, because as the population gets older, the number of people with disabilities will increase. So that the very number of these people I suggest you ask Minister Michalkiewicz. As far as value is concerned, we estimate that in 2020, when this tribute becomes fully applicable, it will affect the budget in the range of about PLN 2.5 billion. 650 million PLN will be from the contribution to the Labour Fund, from this write-down, and about 2 billion PLN there we have estimates that 1 billion 900 million PLN, 1 billion 800 million PLN, it is always some limit This will be an amount that can be used. The senator asked me what the mode of use of these measures would be. The money will influence the budget and depending on how the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy indicates, will be transferred either to PFRON, or directly to local authorities, which will be able to use it as part of tasks contracted or their own.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u255	Mr. Marshal, I have the impression that the senator did not fully understand my question. I asked not how many people would be assisted by these measures, but how many would be paid. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] And I'd like some clarification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u256	We have that value. We estimate that in 2019 around 21 000 taxpayers will be subject to tax, because so many people, according to the Treasury's estimate, earn more than PLN 1 million. 21,000 taxpayers. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: That's how many millionaires we have.]] [[Such poverty...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u257	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you two questions about whether there were two doubts at the committee meeting. The first question is that this is some form of antagonization of the environment of people with disabilities with the wealthiest people. And the second question is, is the truth... Has there been any doubt that this part of the labour fund's funding to fund this solidarity fund is not included in the 2019 Budget Act and that, as a result, there may be a formal problem that, so to speak, it is that it is the labour fund that has been sent for and transferred to the Solidarity Fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u259	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there has indeed been a doubt about what you have raised, namely the antagonization of the environment of people with disabilities and the environment of those who pay the highest taxes in our country. Mr Michałkiewicz, who pointed out that the law was born in the course of a public consultation, and in no case did any of the parties, whether physical, individual or economic entities, have raised any doubts about this form of solidarity tribute. But the doubt, as the senator said, has actually appeared. The second doubt you're talking about is that it's not included in the budget bill. We have also received explanations from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy that it cannot be included until the present law is passed. When the current law is passed by the Sejm and the Senate and the President will sign it, it will result in a change of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u260	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u261	I have another question about whether this issue was raised at the committee meeting. Namely, can this law have such effect that someone will perform the so-called. optimizing the payment of taxes, i.e. more directly, avoided paying them e.g. in Poland or used various optimization techniques? Has there been any information about this? Are such phenomena estimated, anticipated? Because perhaps this will result in a change in the amount of resources that are needed for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u262	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there was no question at the committee's meeting about tax optimization, i.e. the possibility of avoiding this tribute. However, the attention is certainly very valuable and the tax services and the Ministry of Finance should bear in mind the situation that someone may try to circumvent the legal system in force, both in the case of this law and any other law that makes adjustments to the tax system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u263	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u264	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can the Senator rapporteur explain the words 'Solidarity tribute'? What exactly do these words mean? Because in my opinion they all mean "all." So this is my first question: where did this name come from, where did the idea for such a curiosity name come from? And please tell me: is it fair to introduce a tax rate, any tax rate and for whatever purpose, just for a small group of people? Is that consistent with the constitution? And doesn't the Constitutional Tribunal, if a complaint goes to him, reject it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In answer to the question of solidarity tribute, I kindly inform you that the issue of solidarity tribute has been included in the bill that we are currently investigating, namely the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. Solidarity Danina will represent 4% over 1 million in tax returns. This tribute will be paid to 21 000 taxpayers who make 1 million in a calendar year. Solidarity Danina in 2020 should bring about PLN 2 billion of income to the budget for those who are in the most difficult situation due to disability.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u266	But I didn't ask what it would bring. I've asked specific questions. Explain to me what solidarity is, exactly what these words mean. Does this mean that everyone will pay it or just specific people? Why is this tax only for chosen persons and not for all, since everyone is saying that it is a solidarity tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm trying to answer that. The concept of solidarity in social policy is understood as an action for the benefit of the general good, in particular for those who have limited opportunities to exercise the rights that the State gives them. We are therefore proposing the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities Act, which is to support those who have an objectively difficult situation when it comes to moving on the social market, on the labour market and on the health market, through the introduction of a solidarity tribute. Solidarity Danina is a form of taxation which will be covered by people earning more than PLN 1 million per year. It's about 4% above the 1 million income these people show. We estimate that it will be covered by 21 000 taxpayers, which in 2020 will bring about PLN 2 billion to the budget. That is the understanding of the solidarity tribute. If the senator asks whether the constitution is compatible, I will say that the Senate legislature did not comment on the legal form of the bill, it has not tabled any legislative amendments. The examination of constitutional compatibility is not the property of the Senate, but of the Constitutional Tribunal. If the bill passes the whole procession process, then the Constitutional Tribunal can ask whether it is compatible with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u269	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At the committee's meeting, the issue of this law was made in such a way that some of the funds you calculated here would come from the Labour Fund. The question arises as to the settlement of this contribution. Is there enough money out of this contribution, since in the case of other laws this contribution is, let's say, a kind of money? Is this gonna go down? Is it sufficient, in other words, to make use of this Labour Fund? And did the Minister present this account?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u270	Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, Senator, this problem was discussed at the committee meeting. From the explanations given by Minister Michalkiewicz, it appears that the Labour Fund is in sufficient financial condition at the moment that it can afford to allocate some of the funds to the Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u271	No further questions? Oh, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u272	Thank you. Why is the State once again doing business? Let me remind you that PFRON, which has existed for many years, is also maintained with danin people who employ above as many employees there. These are tributes to a country that cannot be deducted from the cost of income. And now, again, you want to drop 4%. They say there is so much money in Poland and we are not at risk, and such a tax exists only in Greece and Portugal, where there was a crisis. This tax was introduced because public finances were not enough to settle their debts. And I hear, including the right media, that it's enough for everything, so I don't understand why it's moving in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u273	We're glad the senator's watching the right media. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarity Danina is not a unique solution used in our country. The Polish government, when proposing this law, after almost half a year of consultation, because they lasted a long time, came up with the assumption that the group of taxpayers, those 21 000 people who earn more than PLN 1 million, could finance support for those who are in the most difficult position. The idea of public solidarity is that the State must weigh on what it transfers funds to and who transfers them. It seems that in this solution funds of people who have the highest income in Poland, after paying a 4-percent income tax of over PLN 1 million, do not seem to be particularly depleted, and thus can do a lot of good for people who really require such support and assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u275	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the rapporteur, who explained everything very thoroughly and comprehensively, but since there were some specific questions, I will try to answer them immediately. Of course, public service obligations are a term known from the Public Finance Act. They consist of various types of contributions, taxes, charges, etc. Therefore, this is not a term which has been introduced only in this law. It operates in the Public Finance Act, it operates in the Polish dictionary, so nothing like that happens here. As for what the senator said, that in different countries such tributes are, are functioning, the additional income tax is in Greece, Germany, Austria, the additional income tax rate In the Czech Republic and Portugal. There are taxes on capital and property income, which are of a solidarity nature. So it is used in many European countries and treated as something normal. As for what Senator Libicki asked about contributions from the Labour Fund, I would like to remind you that at the end of this year the Labour Fund is to have 13 billion 200 million zlotys. At the end of 2019 more than PLN 19 billion is planned. When it comes to 2018, he is obviously bigger, because there are also savings from previous years. In 2018, out of this contribution 2,45% planned 11 billion PLN 200 million... In 2019 even if we subtract from the contributions 0.15% for the Solidarity Fund and will remain 2.3% for the Labour Fund, it will still be PLN 11 billion 600 million, which is more than this year. Let us remember that unemployment has fallen, that wages have increased, so the fund is really in good financial condition and the transfer of 0.15% does not jeopardise its functioning, even the opposite, the fund has surpluses, these surpluses are this year. I would like to remind you that, despite spending money on active forms of combating unemployment at the end of this year, the fund will have over PLN 13 billion. We plan that in 2019. And it's in the budget. There will be over PLN 19 billion. As for the question of whether it's in the budget bill... Well, of course it will, but first we have to make this bill so it'll be there. The amendment is prepared, it is already agreed with the Ministry of Finance. So that there will be an amendment that will shift part of the financial resources from the Labour Fund to solidarity fund tasks in the financial plan. So of course we remember these things, they are prepared, there are no dangers. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities is a fund of this kind which will provide funding in addition to those tasks which are financed by the budget, other tasks for the construction of the support system for persons with disabilities. These needs are different. Let me remind you that in the article. 6, which talks about the tasks that will be financed, we are talking not only about the government programs, the resorts will carry out a number of programmes. but also on the tasks of innovative solutions in support of people with disabilities. Things are changing. We want innovative solutions in terms of rehabilitation of people with disabilities in terms of the provision of orthopaedic equipment in terms of social, health or medical rehabilitation to be financed from this fund and the quality of life of people with disabilities to be actually and decisively improved. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would have dealt with this subject of tax optimisation, although it goes a little beyond the scope of this law, because this is a problem that objectively exists and existed before the idea of introducing this solidarity tribute. Now, is the government somehow preparing a strategy, considering how to counteract this optimisation in a situation where it raises some legal doubts? Well, here's the thing. Let's call it a gray zone. There are rights, international treaties, commitments, economic freedom, and in this context we are talking about legal movement in tax optimization, but there are also actions, I would say, with certain shades of gray. Is the government working on some solutions in this area, e.g. from the point of view of the feasibility of implementing this law? I've read it in the media, and I don't have any detailed knowledge here. The government has much better information and analysis in this regard. Is the scale of this phenomenon really large, and is it as reported in the media? These opinions in the media say more or less that it would be weird if someone else would just simplify it. Whoever made so much paid taxes in Poland. Well, that's usually the point of these media publications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u279	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u280	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as Senator Jackowski's question is concerned, tax optimization always occurs. Those who apply it and who implement it are already implementing it, without waiting for the Solidarity Fund. Of course, if this goes beyond what is legal, so to speak, possibilities, then it should be pursued by the specialised authorities that deal with it. I would like to stress very strongly that our solidarity fund is different in nature. We had a problem whether we were talking about taxes or contributions in relation to this solidarity tribute, and that is because normally the tax is an influence on the budget and it is the Sejm and the Senate who decide in the Budget Act on what purposes and tasks taxes are passed on and to what extent, and the contributions have a specific purpose. The contributions to the Labour Fund, as the senators have said here, are intended to support employment. Contributions to guaranteed employee benefits are also strictly defined. Contributions to the Social Insurance Fund, health insurance, sickness insurance... I don't remember what else is in there, but there's a few of those funds. They have a very specific purpose. So that this name solidarity tribute is because it is not a typical tax. This is not a typical tax, because what will be in the budget of the Solidarity Fund will be distributed through government programs, resort programmes, that will be financed by specific programmes, often through competitions, through grants. I'd like to say one more important thing. The sources of funding for the Solidarity Fund are also other revenues or revenues. At the moment, you can see the interest of private people who, for various reasons, would like to make a donation to the Fund serving people with disabilities. I've been asked if it can be done when and how. So it is not that our society does not want to share, if it has too much, with people with disabilities or with people who, for various reasons, have not been able to earn their own income or earn a quiet pension or otherwise manage it. There are people who are willing to transfer various kinds of funds for charity purposes, and handing them over to the fund guarantees that the government will ensure that this money actually comes to the end of what the donor wants and that it actually serves people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u281	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we are planning that this contribution component will reach 650 million in 2019, of course this will increase during this year. My question is whether there is any level of this component from which we can start implementing the programme. How much money should we raise according to the Minister or how much money do we plan to fund so that the first elements, the first projects of the programme can be mobilised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u283	We want the Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities to become effective on 1 January 2019. Of course, the programming itself, the preparation of projects itself, the announcement of competitions, the holding of these competitions will take a while. We want them to be funded as soon as the projects are operational. Of course, there will be more and more competitions and programs. However, it is only from 1 January that we will be able to actually start implementing this law, and this also applies to the preparation of programmes, the announcement of competitions, the settlement of these competitions and financing. So there's no such time limit. We know that in the middle of... Especially since contributions will start to flow from the beginning of 2019. We plan that throughout 2019 this 650 million will be affected, not at the end of the year, during the year. The solidarity tribute will also apply from 1 January 2019. But because we only settle income at the beginning of next year, we say that the solidarity tribute will be paid in the first half of 2020. That's why the amount immediately higher you were talking about was the Senator. We hope that in addition to 650 million more than 1 billion PLN will be a solidarity tribute. These are all estimates of the Ministry of Finance, because what will be the execution, of course, will only be seen when it is realized. I hope that more and more people in Poland will have revenues above PLN 1 million, the solidarity fund will grow rapidly and will have the resources to allow people with disabilities to feel a qualitative change and to be able to count on more meaningful programmes. I would add that this is not to reduce the budgetary resources or the tasks that are carried out by the budget. It's to secure the mandatory tasks that need to be financed from the budget... these tasks will continue to be financed from the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u285	I'd just like to ask the Minister. It's a simple question. Why is a new fund being created, as is the fund? There's a rehabilitation fund, and there's new people, some new policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u286	I'll answer to the senator right away. Of course... In 2001 or 2002. I don't remember. In the Public Finance Act, the existence of funds with legal personality was abolished. They are special-purpose funds at the moment and, of course, this fund will also be a special-purpose fund. So we don't anticipate creating a new institution, hiring new people. It will be served by the Minister for Social Security. And that's what it looks like right now. As part of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy we have the Labour Fund, we have the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. There is a department of funds that supports these funds, which are special funds, to serve specific tasks. As far as the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is concerned, it carries out tasks from the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of Persons with Disabilities. And, of course, he has these tasks strictly defined. So, in fact, it mainly subsidises professional rehabilitation, subsides the employment of people with disabilities. If there are additional funds in this fund, then there are also social rehabilitation tasks carried out by the counties, but they are also an extension... to serve professional rehabilitation. E.g. In the context of social rehabilitation, the fund is financed workshops for occupational therapy, which are to prepare for professional activity for people who for various reasons cannot find themselves in the labour market. As part of social rehabilitation, we finance professional activities. These are establishments where people with significant disabilities can work together with skilled workers can be active. These occupational activities are financed and financed through marshal offices, through voivodships, from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. So obviously the solidarity fund, the disability support fund is talking about quite different actions, for example. also about rehabilitation and health support. Here, the senator was very clear that, as we do research into the needs of people with disabilities, it is apparent from these studies that people with disabilities as one of the most important problems list health care problems, rehabilitation problems, access to health services. The Minister of Health wants to implement various health programmes. He would also like financial resources for this group of people for programmes that will meet their needs. Here, the senator also spoke about certain solutions that were prepared as part of the road map for the construction of a system of support for people with disabilities. We have already prepared not only amendments to the budget law, but also e.g. The aided employment law, we have a rest-care program prepared. These things are prepared, they're waiting for a specific source of funding. And, of course, we're just waiting for the senators to pass this bill, and the president signed it to run these programs. It is necessary to submit them for consultation, to submit this law for consultation so that new instruments to support people with disabilities can be implemented on 1 January. The State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, as I said, is a fund of legal personality, but it was an exception, it was not a rule. In the revision of the Public Finance Act, which talked about special-purpose funds, PFRON was retained as a fund of legal personality, but it is an exception to the rule. At the moment, special funds may be created, and all funds with legal personality, apart from PFRON, have been liquidated. They have become special-purpose funds and do not have separate institutions at the moment, do not have separate administration, separate service. They are supported by those ministers who are responsible under the law for the implementation of the financing tasks of the special-purpose fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u287	Thank you. Now, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u288	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, many companies encouraged by linear tax have changed their way of taxing. This is a very good form and this linear tax pays a lot of companies. They're mostly family businesses. How do you explain that the state now imposes a further 4% on those companies that set up the business by calculating this 19-percent linear tax. ? It doesn't matter that there's a threshold, because this threshold exceeds those companies. After all, we are not talking about companies that are taxed with CIT, i.e. those that you are complaining about, for example foreign companies, because, as I understand it, this tax is not for that, it is for PIT. PIT pays mostly, mostly, those who have just switched to linear tax. How can you give them another 4% today? ? How does that apply to a linear tax that turns into a threshold tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u289	Thank you very much. I'm sure the senator knows very well. I don't know anything about taxes, I know about disability issues, and that's what I'm an attorney for. That in Poland we have one of the least progressive tax systems and the scale of income varies greatly. Speaking of solidarity tributes, we are talking about a premium on excess income over a million zlotys. This isn't a threshold on the principle that there's a next rate of more than a million, and once the amount is exceeded, everyone pays the tax... We're talking about a surplus. That's what I'm It's from what's over a million zlotys' income. As the senator mentioned here, the Ministry of Finance estimates that 21,000 people are involved. These are not great numbers, on the contrary. In view of the scale of the persons who are taxed on PIT, this is indeed a small group. Why is this included in the tax bill? We've been thinking about it, too, but we're not... the finance minister wrote that part. It seems to me that this is included in the PIT Act because with the PIT Act it will be the easiest to catch those who are with income above a million and estimate how much of this income above a million should be charged to the Solidarity Fund. That's all... Like I said, it's not a typical tax. Typical tax is the one we pay for the budget. It is the Members and Senators who decide what tasks are financed from taxes, from the state budget, and to what extent. Here we're talking about a contribution that has a specific purpose. It is intended to support people with disabilities. As a society, we should be concerned about the situation of people with disabilities and hence the name, hence the solidarity that we discussed at the committee meeting with Senator Rulewski. So that it is not only about ideals of solidarity as a social movement, but also about the teaching of the Pope, about Catholic social science. Solidarity in European societies in our civilization circle is an existing concept. It seems to me that it is difficult to argue with the fact that in our civilization people who want and can support those who need public support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u290	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u291	Minister, the creation of a new fund is a decision to create a special-purpose fund, and the creation of this special-purpose fund is pointless. You could change the law on the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, change the source of its funding, place the money there, expand the tasks as much as you want, and we would have the fund Although it is not intentional, it is in line with the Public Finance Act. It was to be done. I'm asking what decided that you wanted, as you wrote here, to support the support system for people with disabilities. So you admit that the support system is, and yet it requires support instead of strengthening. I admit I'm surprised. Second question. Why have you decided that all these competitions that will be organised will be without the participation of all those stakeholders who have had even an indirect impact on the allocation of the money allocated to occupational and social rehabilitation of people with disabilities so far? The competitions will be organised in three-person assemblies appointed by the Minister or the competent minister or representative of the National Health Fund. It is also a very interesting construction that 3 ministers will manage I don't know whether it's in parallel or at the same time This fund. In any case, three three-member committees will be set up without the participation of non-governmental organisations, district governments. In addition, if the Minister wishes, he will be able to opt out of this selection procedure at all. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u292	If you don't mind, sir... Of course I'll answer. As to why an independent fund is being created, we discussed this a little at the committee meeting. Mr. Senator has been working for years to create a system of support for care services for people who are independent, completely dependent. We discussed that in fact these people have very special needs. And often these needs are unnoticed because we do not see these people, because they are home, often under a ventilator, often in a coma, often in states such as those that do not allow them to. They could have protested. So, the senator knows this very well, you yourself have planned different ways of financing this kind of care services for those who are independent. Of course, that's the reason. We believe that there are the needs of people with disabilities, very special groups of people with disabilities, which require special solutions rather than general ones, because they are actually functioning themselves. So it would be difficult, according to legislators and lawyers, to build a fund in the fund. Creating a fund in the PFRON fund would be quite difficult. Why the new fund? As I say, we believe that there are tasks and groups of people with disabilities who require special support. The current support is insufficient. The bill states very clearly that these tasks, this support will be implemented through programs, government programs, resorting programs... [[It's not that it will, it's just that maybe...]] I'm already looking, 'cause that's... [[And in both cases, it's possible.]] Well, because it could be a resort, or it could be a government. If... [[One may be the other.]] [[Voice from the room: And the third may.]] But I'm sure he can only be a government officer, then he won't be a resort... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you're playing linguistics. [[No, right.]] I understand that the law states that there are possible government programs, that there are possible resorting programs, whereas it will depend on the needs of people with disabilities whether we create a government program, or for example. In a given year there will be no government program, but they will only be resorting. Then, in fact, this government program may be, but it doesn't have to, Mr. Senator. I agree with the senator on that. And as for the way these programs are implemented... Because they can be different, they can be e.g. be government and then the government will determine which resort and what minister will be responsible for the implementation of this programme, we have stated that on the one hand, the implementation of the programmes is carried out by means of a call for proposals or an open competition for tenders. And depending on whether it will be a government program implemented e.g. by the Minister of Sport or the Minister of Culture, then, of course, the competent Minister will prepare and select proposals and competitions if they are envisaged. I don't think the minister was on the competition committee himself, but who he's going to invite, what rules he's going to adopt, that's another topic, and that's not legal matter. At the same time, I cannot imagine that the Minister, when organising an open competition for offers, would not set up a competition committee consisting of people who know something about the content of these programmes. As I said, there may be government programmes and then there may be other ministers' programmes in the government programme. Therefore, whoever will be responsible for the specific programme will look very different, but it will not be so that at the same time 3 or 4 ministers will lead in parallel to a single competition. I think the senator understands that perfectly... [[I didn't say that, Minister.]] ...he understands perfectly well that we are talking about something that is normal today. By spending European funds, we work mainly through programmes. And the fact that this fund also wants to work through programs is good for me, not negative for me. I'll remind you, by the way. I emphasized it because it was very important to me. • that we will also finance tasks from the area of innovative solutions to support people with disabilities. Often these innovative solutions will be beneficial, sometimes after implementation, we may conclude that these innovations are not necessarily suitable for widespread implementation. But the fact that we are looking for innovative solutions when it comes to supporting people with disabilities, with today's state of development of science and technology, seems very beneficial to me. People with disabilities also have the right to use innovative, innovative solutions when it comes to rehabilitation when it comes to orthopedic supplies when it comes to medical procedures, because it is actually possible. I think it's good. This is something that the environment of people with disabilities has long been waiting for and often jealously looks at people with disabilities from other countries who have access to modern therapies, modern rehabilitation, modern orthopedic equipment or medical supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u294	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: what is the question, let's call it, even coverage of the net of meeting the needs of the environment of people with disabilities throughout the country? As I understand it, these funds can be transferred through local governments, but local governments have territorial jurisdiction, so they can't, let's say, operate outside their own territory. PFRON has a national jurisdiction. How in this system to ensure that people with a similar degree of disability, with similar needs, with a similar life-material situation have the same access to these measures, regardless of whether they are in place X, in south-eastern Poland or in place Y, in north-western Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u295	Thank you, Senator, for that question. This is the problem that we are facing. We have come up with a solution to ensure that PFRON measures actually respond to the specific needs of specific people with disabilities. They are divided by an algorithm into counties and voivodships. It is the counties and voivodships that decide what they want to spend it on, whether they want to allocate it primarily to rehabilitation tournaments, or maybe to medical supplies, or to personal assistants, because such possibilities were also. It looked very different, very different in different counties. We had signals from people with disabilities that in some counties e.g. Access to rehabilitation turns is insufficient or limited, that in some counties there are no workshops for occupational therapy, and in neighbouring ones there can be several. Of course, we're trying to monitor it, we're trying to get the local authorities to have an occupational therapy workshop in every county, so that there's an environmental self-help home. With environmental self-help homes, it's easier because it's a commission. In each district, housing is protected for people with disabilities or housing without barriers for families with a disabled person. It doesn't solve all the problems. There are problems. We know that the situation of people with disabilities is much more difficult in rural and small-town areas. In large cities access to various types of services is certainly much, much better. Surely people with disabilities, depending on their place of residence, have different access to various types of support and services. They have other opportunities in terms of functioning, including in terms of the labour market. It is so paradoxical that people with disabilities end their studies with great effort, and after graduation they often return to their small town and are unemployed, although education should be something that positively affects their attractiveness in the labour market. In the case of people with disabilities it is often different, which is why we finance various types of competitions and programmes within PFRON. There is a programme of PFRON's Supervisory Board, a student in which students with disabilities are co-financed and supported. However, it has been insufficient and since that year, if I remember correctly, or since then we have introduced the Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u296	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... [[One more question.]] Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u297	Minister, I have a question for you. There is a wide range of sources of funding for an area related to persons with disabilities. Now there is a solidarity fund, earlier there was PFRON, earlier you announced the programme's availability Plus. It is good that there are so many of these funds, although they are scattered. Question is, wouldn't it be worth coordinating? Senator Augustyn spoke here about the inclusion of this in the PFRON structure. I am also talking about this because it seems that you have some difficulty coordinating and managing what already exists, and now there is a new fund that will also need to be managed. Why am I talking about this? Well, I just checked on the website of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities that Mrs Habich has been the President of the Fund for a year or more. So, in fact, for over a year now, there's only someone who's been in charge and hasn't got a CEO. You have not decided to appoint someone else as President or to appoint Mrs Habich as President, which shows that there is a decision-making and management problem. You can't deal with what's already there, and you're creating a new fund, a new source. Am I wrong? What makes you think that Mrs. Habich has been a CEO for a year? Is there any way you can explain this to me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u298	Mr. Senator, of course. With great respect, I always approach the senator's questions. [[Thank you very much.]] The senator knows very well, as do I, that there are many people with disabilities. More than 12% our society are people with disabilities. With legal disability we have 3 million 100,000 people. In CSO statistics, there were about 5 million in the census, and some experts say there are 7 million. This is because, of course, there is no obligation for a disabled person to have a judgment. He doesn't have to. That's the first thing. The second thing the senator knows perfectly well is that there are very different disabilities. We are talking about disabled people, but we are really talking about very different people with very different needs, with very different expectations and very different functioning in our society. And the third issue that you also know about: we are proud because already six years ago Poland ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. One thing is said in this convention is that people with disabilities, like all other citizens, have the same civil rights. And of course, there's no reason for us to secrete and create a separate world for people with disabilities. Therefore, the disabled student is financed under the education system and not with PFRON, Mr Senator, therefore the unemployed workers are served by the labour offices and registered there, so benefits for disabled people in case of illness are financed by the National Health Fund. If a disabled person gets sick, he has the same right as any other citizen to go to a clinic, to lie down in a hospital, to have surgery or surgery. So talking about how we're having trouble coordinating... No, we don't have a problem coordinating. We just think there's no reason to exclude people with disabilities from society. Nevertheless, many people with disabilities have special needs and need special support. In order for people with disabilities to exercise their rights, they often need to be helped by various people with disabilities. 'Cause the truth is... I used to have a driver who had a ruptured spleen, and no one saw from him that he was a disabled person. And he had an invalid group. So it looks very different, very different needs, very different expectations. And in my opinion, it is obvious that as far as cultural needs are concerned, they are mainly to be met by the Ministry of Culture with those funds that are for culture, simply. As far as sport is concerned, the Ministry of Sport is the Department of Sport of Disabled Persons and it finances sports of disabled people. And the senator obviously knows all this, but because... [[But that's not what I asked.]] ...you asked me a question, that's what I'm talking about. Now about personalities... In the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, management functions are carried out by the management board, 3-person board. And, of course, in the board meetings, it's important that there's a majority. 2 This is already the majority and decisions can be made. And the fact that we didn't find... It is difficult to say that we have not found, because the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation shows that the President of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities appoints the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. And I, even though I'm a proxy, neither call nor request the appointment of a president. Nevertheless, of course, I will tell Minister Rafalska this suggestion by the senator that it would be worth thinking about completing the board so that he would be three people, as mentioned in the Act. However, this does not change the fact that there is also a PFRON Supervisory Board in addition to the PFRON Board. This may also be worth highlighting: in this supervisory board there are also representatives of employers, and representatives of trade unions, and representatives of the social side. And I'm the chairman of the board of directors. And many decisions are made by the Supervisory Board and many of the matters that PFRON deals with, including the budget and the budget implementation report, are assessed by the Supervisory Board. It is therefore difficult to say here that in PFRON there are no bodies responsible for its proper functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u299	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the establishment, so to speak, of a solidarity fund, from which we are to support people with disabilities, and in theory we could say that we should be happy, because there is another source from which we can support people with disabilities in Poland. And I'm kind of happy about it, but there's some doubt about it, too. First a little bit about history, because it is worth mentioning when and under what circumstances this idea of the solidarity fund came into being. She appeared at the moment when the government first spoke for months about the fact that in Poland money is in the beard and everything, because the government sealed the VAT system and the tax system and basically money is falling on us from the law and the left... And when encouraged by this environment of people with disabilities came here to protest, it suddenly turned out that this money in the form of 500 zł rehabilitation allowance does not exist. And then Prime Minister Morawiecki, trying to save the situation and trying to explain to these people how it is that the money is for everything and there is no money for it, offered this solidarity tax or solidarity tribute. As I understand it, she's being implemented today. What are my doubts in this regard? First doubt. Let's start with what comes with the name, the word "solidarity." In my deepest conviction, it is difficult to force someone to react to solidarity. Well, here's the thing: a group of Poles, 21,000 people, we force them to show solidarity. I don't think it's a good method and a good way to force someone to have noble reflexes. This is the first thing. And then there's the second thing. In the case of which I share the opinion expressed at the committee meeting also by the representatives of the Legislative Office However, this is a question of antagonising the environment of people with disabilities with those groups who will have to pay this solidarity tribute. And it seems pretty natural to me. Surely there are many noble people there who will say: well, we wish, we are ready, etc. This reaction of solidarity is shown. But, first of all, I'd prefer it to be shown voluntarily, not under legal duress, and second of all, I'm afraid there'll be some people there who will feel compelled to do that, and that's why they'll be there. In some way justified in such a situation, because no one likes to pay when he is forced to do so. The negative perception of this social group of people with disabilities. And these are my reservations about this tribute and this project. Now what I'm going to say is, first of all, about the income side, which is where the money's coming from. Because it's said that they will also be obtained from the Labour Fund. I, unlike Senator Rulewski, have no special reservations, provided, of course, that it is not true what the Legislative Office raised at the committee meeting, that there is some inconsistency with the draft budget for 2019, which prevents the use of the Labour Fund for this fund, the solidarity tribute. If that's not the case, that's good. I have no objection to that. As far as this coercive element is concerned, I just said so. The next question remains, that is what I called the issue of coordination. The question is this. It's a good thing there's another source of funding. But we do have a program called "Availability Plus," which the government, I think, represents inaccuracies as well. Because he says we're giving money for Plus Availability instead of telling you honestly how it is: we're going to try to raise EU funds for the Plus Accessibility Programme and that's going to be the EU funds we're going to be looking for. It's not like we're gonna give them to you. It's a certain inaccuracy, but it's important. I think there's a coordination problem in the many sources. And to me, the fact that we've had a CEO for a year is proof of a certain state of temporaryity. Well, the Minister himself will admit that if we call someone in some institution to perform the duties, it seems that this person is only for a moment, and we're really waiting for him to appear there, so to speak, a full-blooded president. I would therefore propose that Mrs Habich be appointed president and put an end to this temporary situation, or, if you and you, Minister, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, believe that Mrs Habich is only temporary and there should be someone else there, just another person to find this place. And I'm thinking, like I said at the committee meeting... Senator Rulewski will make some amendments to this bill. I'm having second thoughts. I'll be honest with you that I voted against at the committee's meeting because you've filed a motion for a law without amendment, and I'm actually with those amendments by Senator Rulewski. Which, as I understand it, Senator Rulewski will report again. I'm being sympathetic, so I can't tell you how I'm going to vote on this right now. I've expressed my doubts here. But, in fact, the biggest doubt, I'm going to repeat this once again, is whether, in some of those people who are going to be, so to speak, donors of this solidarity tribute, there will not be an element of a negative look at people with disabilities. And one more thing about the spending side of this fund. I think we're in agreement here with the Minister. I agree that respite care is indeed the area for which, if this fund is created, these funds should be spent. And what we talked about in the committee, that is, if we could create an assistant care system for people with disabilities... Of course, I do not think that this can only be built from the funds of this fund, but it is possible to apply some editing here, including local governments, to finance it together, maybe partly with PFRON, maybe partly with the If with the help of this fund to build such a combined system of assisted care for people with disabilities, it would certainly revolutionise the situation of people with disabilities in Poland. And if that were to be the case, and I had such a clear assurance that it would be the case, it would certainly be an element that would have an overwhelming impact on my decision in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank my predecessors, especially Senator Libicki, for introducing a number of reservations and proposals, proposals for my speech. This way, I'll make better use of the time I've been given. I voted against this law, so I sympathize with the minority proposal that my colleagues will present. If I make amendments, I do so in the belief that this proposal can be rejected and that my amendments can refine this law. This is actually 1 amendment to the title. She removes this philosophy and ideology, the false ideology of this law contained in the word "solidarity." As a man of solidarity, I believe that in Poland we are dealing with abuse of the word, but in this case This is a phenomenon of moral pressure. State solidarity is being created, which is so contrary to this solidarity, which was created toilfully, from the bottom, in a struggle which was the result of a universal social agreement, recognized even by the communist authority. The Minister said we used the gospel during the committee's work. This is important, although when I look at one of the senators who has been involved in a completely different matter, I recall that he has distinguished the natural order from the legal order, although he is changing his right hand. However, I believe that the ideal of man, the dream of man, is to combine these two orders. This bill is trying to connect them now, but Okay, I'll say it again. On an artificial basis, through the creation of a state, forced solidarity system with all the criminal sanctions involved. All those who create a bottom-up system of solidarity support in the form of various types of foundations could also be offended. I mean, for example. Mrs Smoke's foundation, which without any expense, without compulsion, has been collecting for years multi-million funds, acting without a state seal. So this is abuse. In my opinion, Senator Elephant also committed abuse when he quoted John Paul II, his memorable speech on Zaspa, where I was present. As I understood, he appealed that we should bear one another's burdens, but he also commanded: never one against another. Yes, he did. And there's a tax order or tribute or whatever you call it. So this contradicts this philosophy, and in Poland it is important because here it was beating and probably still beating the heart of solidarity. It's by the little ones and the big ones by the big ones. That is why my amendment aims to remove this name so that this solidarity is more right there... so that it is not ordered not to create lex Morawiecki, so that it does not create Morawiecki's solidarity. This may be a dictionary discussion, a philosophical discussion, maybe boring even, but other issues that I would like to raise justify this thesis. It is said that the funds will come from the Labour Fund, that there will be 600 million. But the Labour Fund is also a kind of solidarity fund, in which employers employing workers are made up of workers in case they are affected by unemployment. And sometimes it's like this unemployed person is a disabled person. In the Employment Promotion Act and in the labour market institutions, disabled people have certain preferences. So isn't this fiction when we create one solidarity fund, which is counter to the other solidarity fund? I know that the Minister has already beat me to it. I brought this up at the committee meeting saying that the balance sheet was correct. Minister, maybe you don't need to know this, but in those days, in these hours here, in this room, we were stripping this Labour Fund. And you didn't even mention it. You're talking about a big surplus, but that's not a reason for us to be invading this fund. Anyone can say, "Well, reduce your contribution to the Labour Fund." The notabene fund, which has, once again, a solidarity character. More: You forgot, of course. You don't have to remember, and I have to remember that a significant part of this fund has already been split up by a vote in the Sejm. It has been plundered and it must be said here that this was unfortunately done not only by the governments of the PiS, but also by previous governments. It's on the PPK. This is an extreme PLN 5 billion for a welcome fee and an annual payment. Of course, there is a grading there, so luckily it will not happen, in view of these promises, in the case of 11 million zlotys, but for these reasons it is also not included in the PPK of these 2,5 million people from the budgetary sphere because there is no money It's to make sure there's money here. But while we're talking about ripping off that contribution, let's talk about the next one... I'm looking at Senator Radziwill, but he's not the perpetrator, he's the government... unless he's been preparing it too. For years, these measures have been used for internships for nurses and doctors. [[The voice from the room: The platform did.]] Yeah, the PiS is making a redecisive. The punishment for redecises is higher. And more and more are coming, among others. to the doctor's strike raises. There's hundreds of millions there, too, if not billions. The Life Programme, although completely unrelated to labour markets, also draws funds from this institution. And there are other social programs. Also, Minister, in the PFRON fund And you should know that. I'm sorry. There is no funding for preventive leave for people who are not children. For children there are still, but already for adults, combatants work, these means are gone. And it's not true what you're saying is that it's just to activate employment, because it's at least 15%. is dedicated to social activation, therapeutic workshops and other issues and equipment. I only made a short cut of that money. And the government is trying to raid that money. Senator Augustine rightly stressed that if there are measures, because there is less unemployment, then 6%. And I'm confirming it. This is permanent unemployment, for which there is no prescription. And permanent unemployment is also covered by people with disabilities. And if so, it is obvious that this law, lex Morawiecki, cannot be accepted for this reason. Nor can it be accepted for this reason, as Senator Libicki said, i.e. that there is a multitude of funds. He thought it was a good thing. Maybe I'd consider it an advantage, too, if only there were a multitude of these resources in one hand, and consequently, their flexibility... No, the programme is not coordinated by the Minister responsible for social policy, but by the Minister for Investment and Development. That's 100 billion zlotys! What, then, can this 2.5 billion be? These are pennies. But that $100 billion is supposed to be a bang. So maybe this program is real. But all right, let's get him coordinated by another fund... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] That's the charge. I'm gonna finish the story, and then I'm gonna take the 5% off. Can we negotiate? [[What 5%?]] Five minutes, five minutes. [[What percentage are you talking about?]] Five minutes... [[4%.]] [[4%.]] Yeah, 4%. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah, I end this topic so that later the Minister would not want to answer that he did not understand the distribution of these measures, big and small, between the 3 ministries, because of course the Ministry of Health still comes into this, means that there will be gaps, that there will be niches in which perhaps those who should not be. And for this reason it contradicts the principle of one-man management, which occurs in all phases of management, but above all in the PiS, where, as you know, everything is in one hand. Thank you very much. And I'm signing up for the other five minutes. [[Four minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u303	Thank you. [[Four minutes. I agree.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It takes more money to make it better for disabled people in Poland It's obvious. They are needed because we have a very low, lower than others, a percentage of the employment of people with disabilities. Because many provisions of the convention are still waiting for full implementation. Because many PFRON tasks are far from complete; I mean, for example, the construction of a network of activity facilities, an even network throughout the country. etc., etc. It takes money in PFRON, because once there is money for local governments for social rehabilitation, another time there is a shortage of money. So, in general, yes. However, it seems to me that the path you are proposing is not appropriate for a number of reasons. I'll try to show you a few of them. The employment of people with disabilities is carried out in Poland by 2 main institutions, i.e. The Labour Fund, which has a special path for these people, and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Both institutions lack money or an idea to do something. Well, instead of mobilising a state fund, we're making a commitment to make us feel better there, we're taking money out of this fund so that we can spend it on the same tasks. Please read there, there is talk of professional matters I think it's in the article. I repeat: to spend it on the same tasks. It seems ridiculous, but it's real. I ignore the fact that the fund for something else should be respected, because probably closer than we think there is another wave of crisis, it is ahead of us and we need to be protected. The fund was built to raise money. But if we on PPK take from these 13 billion zlotys immediately 5 billion zlotys, then we will take another hundreds of millions of zlotys That's a tough commitment. What will happen when it is necessary, and sometimes so, to double and even triple the expenses of the fund? What are we gonna get out of? In my opinion, this is a short-term procedure not to say reckless. Something else, however, is when it is spent on nurses and doctors, because I would argue that it has something to do with the labour market, that these people are getting stronger on the labour market or that they are just getting into it, and I'm talking about those intern doctors who are just about to become full-value doctors. So that's still to be understood. The second point is duplication of tasks. I've already told you about the Labour Fund, but there are issues. Mr. Minister mentioned them here. Rehabilitation equipment, medical supplies, health support, assistants, etc., removal of architectural barriers. It was all in PFRON, but in time for financial reasons it stopped being there. It takes money to maintain this system, for which Poland once... President Lech Kaczyński received a prestigious UN award for him. Thus, the easiest way to support the support system is to amend the regulations that concern it and add the money that is missing. And we're taking the third road that I don't think is necessary. And I think the intention is different than the one that's written here. This money in the special fund will be shared, unlike in the Labour Fund, unlike in the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, in fact beyond any stakeholder control. The Minister spoke here about the council of the fund, and rightly so. There used to be temptations to make a special-purpose fund. Senator Elephant remembers. In my group, I fought to keep it from happening. And I was just saying that there's social control, because it's a kind of social agreement. And now, aside from this agreement, you put billions of zlotys at the disposal of officials, politicians who are not only able to compete for these funds. Because there may be 3 or 4 ministers who will manage parts of this fund, separate programmes It will still be freely shared, assisted by political voivodships, who will recommend what can be financed and what can not. I believe that the Prime Minister, as a politician, came out in the face of the strike and wanted to play the role of a good uncle, said: I will find money for you in the solidarity fund. Prime Minister, Minister, since it is so good with the budget of the state We're about to hear that in the budget debate, there's never been so much influence. Show your own solidarity. Let the government show solidarity, with the money that is supposed to be in quantities that have never been in the history of the Republic of Poland. And it doesn't try to shift it to better earners and raise extra funds. I don't get it. Because it's either that money is, or it's like Senator Libicki said here: when it comes to it, there's no money. Then make up your mind. Because we hear different, separate messages every day. There you go. Let's show solidarity. There is a possibility to subsidize PFRON with more amounts than those of PLN 500.600 thousand. Let's double it, triple it, go ahead. It's okay. And then everything that is here can be realized according to the proven system, the awarded system, of which Poland has the right to be proud. Not perfect. There's a lot to do, too, yes, some of the tasks aren't actually done, because either they're not written there, or it's not well regulated. But that's what you can do. And rightfully, Senator Libicki says: first, let's manage what is well, let's regulate what is well before we get on with something new. In the meantime, we're creating a bill that will create a cliental system. There is no shortage of government politicians saying, "Those who are good and kind will get it, those who are not will not." Not out there, but in our place, just a moment ago, it was repeated. Finally, I am pleased, Minister, that there are certain intentions to relieve the caretakers of independent persons, to improve their situation. I'm sorry we're going down that path again before we've been wiped out. Because every government registered that they had done something, and you want to do something, too, but they're still cutting-edge. The only coherent project that was prepared by Zbigniew Religion, who then continued working with me... [[Mr. Senator...]] Now. ... The project under the name "The Act on Help for Independent Persons" was voted by the PiS, and actually only by the PiS, rejected at first reading and was not even addressed to the committee. It's disgraceful. I would like to say that if money were transferred from the Labour Fund there, it would be a chance that it would be like Belgium, where a welfare check was sent to people and 200,000 jobs were created. With us, it could be twice as much, and families would have a choice as to how to use this check for caring purposes. You've been announcing care insurance, just like you once did Professor Religa. We hear it's been abandoned. And the Act on Help for Independent Persons, which would cost less than what is foreseen here, and would create a support system for this particular group of people with disabilities, you put it in the basket, even though it was supported by almost 400 entities in the coalition for independent assistance. That is real solidarity. [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much.]] Just one more sentence, and I won't take the floor again. I'm making amendments, Minister. First of all, so that the programs you were talking about couldn't only be, but were. Secondly, for these programmes to be created in consultation with representatives of national organisations of persons with disabilities. Third, so there's no way we can split without a contest. And fourthly, for the competition committees to consist not only of representatives of the ministries, but also of representatives of NGOs and the Polish County Association. [[Mr. Senator, I really...]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u305	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is only to congratulate me, especially Senator Libicki, who, as a disabled person, gave quite clearly what I think we all feel. The adoption of ad hoc tax, which is unknown when and in whose head it was born, which is supposed to touch only a narrow number of entrepreneurs, although the word "solidarity" is used here... It doesn't really fit. I asked one of you to reschedule the etymology of the word. Of course, you can talk a lot, but it still hits the wrong ground. Or we all make up for something, and then, I think, there's solidarity, you make up, Minister, and I make up... Then we can say it's solidarity. The most solidarity for me is what is happening today and what my predecessor also mentioned. It's about voluntary contributions to various kinds of charities. At the dross club we have a foundation and we walk, please all graces, people pay, and we hand it over to the children's operations. These may not be large amounts, because this is a small foundation that works at our falubaz dross club, but this is how it happens. And it's different in practice when someone gives voluntarily and knows what his money will go for, and it's different how you charge someone an extra tax. There is a linear tax of 15 years and today you are really closing the issue of linear tax. If you're introducing an extra threshold... You tried to explain it's going to be 1 million zlotys. You can talk about 1 million zlotys or 100 grand. What difference does it make? There's an extra threshold, so there's no linear tax. If you do not change the tax rules now, what will happen to linear tax? Well, you're misleading someone here. I was starting a business and I have a linear tax today, and the state promised it to me, and so I settle. Why are you changing that? Is that consistent with the constitution? This is the first case. Two. In the intentions that were mentioned somewhere in the beginning, it was published in the press. It was supposed to be a tax for the richest. You said it was about companies and money transfers abroad. That's what I hear all the time. However, this has led to the fact that only people who pay PIT will be taxed, i.e. actually our domestic entrepreneurs, family companies that have just started and were forced to... It may not be forced, it's a bad word, but they were encouraged by the competitiveness of taxation. Now the other side of the coin. There were examples. And that's what the press has been reporting about. The fact that one of the prominent people now, in a very high position when she was getting paid, did not collect it in money, because it is taxed on a certain scale, as we know, only collected it in securities, shares, I do not know exactly what, precisely to avoid high taxation. And you think that companies that somehow jump over 1 million zlotys will not split their business today, if it's in the family, they won't spread it into 3 people, into 4 people, they won't turn it into commando companies, working properly? It will really affect only those who have a fixed high salary, and so managers, and this high level of people who manage big businesses in Poland, or professionals who today can also earn good money, such as doctors, lawyers, because they have no cost, they will not share it unless they create offices and invest money and thus create some costs or shocks systems, buy cars, run away with money. If that's the way it's supposed to be, it looks like entrepreneurship punishment to me today. Someone is entrepreneurial, they know how to develop their business, they earn money, they sacrifice themselves, they bear personal and other costs, and today the government wants to punish him: Boy, you're hardworking, they pay more, and whoever is not hardworking, don't pay. Well, that's what it looks like in a simple way. Here I have such wise opinions of various people who spoke impartially; they are not subject to this tax because they earn less. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, I'm the one who mentioned they're not being discharged from CIT... Sorry, I got fired. Of course, helping these people who are injured, disabled in some way today is the right thing to do, but there are a lot of these forms of help. I mentioned, for example, the Minister too... Well, there's PFRON. And this is a tax on businesses that can't even be written off and thrown into the cost. Well, is that fair? Is that fair? Would you like a minister, for example? To pay for the government car you drive and not count off, somehow not to compensate yourself for it? You only use it for work. Well, it's mega-fair. The government continues to go on punishing those who manage the labour market, who have created companies who live here, work and leave taxes here for different purposes. You said yourself there are budget surpluses. They're for 500+ programs, they're for extensive administration. It seems to me that it is only necessary to put it logically, not to punish those who are entrepreneurial, honest and pay the most taxes in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator Rulewski said that I abused the words of the Pope, and I merely read his words spoken in a meeting with the world of people of work, words that were referring just to solidarity. I wasn't supposed to read it in plenary, but I'll read it again. Perhaps this will help us to have a deeper understanding of what the holy pope wanted to tell us all. The Apostle's brief sentence is an inspiration for interpersonal and social solidarity. Solidarity means both, and since it's a burden, it's a burden brought together in a community. So never: one against another, one against another. And never a burden borne by man alone, without the help of others. There can be no fight stronger than solidarity. And then, one of the important tasks of the state is to create this space so that everyone can develop himself, his personality and his calling through work. This personal development, this space of a person in social life is also a prerequisite for a common good. If a person is deprived of these opportunities, if the organization of collective life provides too tight a framework for human capabilities and human initiatives (...), it is unfortunately against society. All human existence has a proper Community dimension and a social dimension. With this quote I would like to draw attention to how I read the intentions of the Polish government, Prime Minister Morawiecki, when he puts emphasis, great emphasis, on the solidarity social dimension of our country and puts government action into this dimension. I see here actions that open up space for Community action, solidarity action. And in this I would like to see the future success of the law that we are currently looking at, success in a way comparable to the success of the State Aid Act in raising children, popularly called the 500+ law, which entered into force in the first months of 2016. Then, as far as I recall, the bill was contested, very widely contested, as a law which, from a financial point of view, will completely spread our budget, which is the fulfillment of the broken promises made by the Law and Justice in the parliamentary elections. It was said that it would contribute to the demoralization of Polish families, that it would increase the level of unemployment, that people would spend this money not on children, but among others. for alcohol, that this is a very unfair system, because it supports only some, a system that is incompatible with the constitution, because all children are equal. Time has shown that it is us who are talking about everyone who supported this bill then We were right, because during these two years the level of poverty among Polish families has significantly decreased. This was, in my opinion, one of the main fundamental objectives of this law, these solutions. Of course, demographic issues are also right to exist as a justification for this law, but these effects will come to us. That's the way it is with demographic issues, wait a little longer. But there are already swallows that allow us to hope. The Poles mostly believed that they meant something to this country, because the money that they managed to find was taken away by fuel mobs or the Vat mobs. The state, the Polish government can share with Polish families, with Polish children who need it. The perspective of these years shows that it was us who spoke about everyone who supported it then that we were right. I also think it is high time that this solidarity fund was introduced into the legal system, in its functioning. Why? Because Poland is growing faster and faster. In September, we were among the top 25 developing countries. The agency and other agency, but especially S&P, which even 3 years ago lowered our rating because it feared that Poland would be a bad place to invest capital to develop business. After all, now, completely unconvinced to do this, by itself, has increased this rating. It turned out that it was us who were talking about all those who supported these solutions. We were right. And now, with such a well-developed economy, I see that there is a great danger of even greater social disintegration, especially among those who are resourceful, able to take advantage of this economic situation, can develop their businesses, multiply their assets, and those who are the weakest in our society, and these are among others. persons with disabilities. By force, it would begin to expand even more. So the role of the state is to create a space in which those who are well thought of the burdens borne by those who are bad and weaker. And it's very good that that's what has now been noticed and that we're introducing it now, because in time it might be too late, we'd have a very complex society. Although, as the previous speakers have also pointed out, there are many actions that support these weakest, systemic actions as well. I think that the concerns you are making here about the solidarity fund are coming only out of good will and out of concern for whether the funds raised in the fund will be properly distributed or whether the collection of part of this fund capital, because this part is only going to be the 4%. over PLN 1 million, will not weaken the morale of the richest in our society. Of course, and that's what I'm happy about. We will all, as Poles, contribute to this fund, because a large part of it is part of the contribution to the Labour Fund. And I'm very happy that it has a social dimension too. Finally, I'm going to talk about something that recently made me realize in a very bright way the need to introduce two years ago 500+. Well, at one of the meetings, you came up to me, the mother of three girls, and she told me that she was thanking me for the 500+ program. I ask, "Why?" You're better off, I understand, you and your daughters? [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm done. No, Mr. Senator. I haven't bought for a notebook in two years. I hope you know what it means to buy basic food or hygiene products in a store, in some rural small shop, for a notebook, how it stigmatises a person and what a humiliation it is for him. And she hasn't bought for a notebook in two years. So that 500+ was worth the input. So, Minister, please tell the Prime Minister that I thank you very much for this fund and I hope that he will help many of the weakest Poles, the disabled Poles, so that they do not have to live on a notebook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u309	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a good thing that this act will be established by the Solidarity Fund, and I have no doubt about it. In fact, when I listened to this debate and earlier questions, my dominant feeling was the feeling of sadness. There were so many bad words when we discussed this law, so many of which were devoted to the definition of words, interpretations, and they were completely unaware of what this law was about. Solidarity is not universality, solidarity is simply sharing the strong with the weak. This is the most basic definition of solidarity. In this case, this bill is about sharing the strongest with the weakest. And there's no doubt about that. Some have talked about the superiority of voluntary solidarity over this forced one, but the state It's a country that I think we all accept in Europe. It has a whole range of social obligations consisting in redistribution of funds that are made by those who are well-off. And it is this kind of solidarity that is based on taxes, contributions to the National Health Fund, contributions to various parts of the Social Insurance Fund, etc., etc. It's healthy people who pay for sick people, rich people pay for poor people, workers pay for those who don't work anymore. This is just how our society is constructed, and there is no need to rebel against it. It just seems that this is a commonly accepted principle. Today we introduce an additional element to this jigsaw puzzle. The needs of people with disabilities, especially those particularly affected by disability, dependent on others, are enormous. It is good that Poland finds various ways to finance this: the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, the National Health Fund, the There is nothing wrong with the fact that another fund will be created, which will be collected and then distributed funds to support those who still need this support. Could this be done in a single fund managed by one person, by one entitled president, as some bring here? It may be possible to do so, but it seems that such a dispersion of resources, the different targeting of each of these funds, has its advantages as well. This makes it possible to see these needs existing in different places, to complement each other. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. Moreover, there is nothing to prevent those who still have some potential for voluntary solidarity And there are a lot of people like that, both among the wealthy and the less affluent, they have developed a variety of charity activities based on what we call caritas in Latin. But it's not about the institution, it's about the organization, it's about sharing what we have, it's about sharing what we need with those who need it. I must say that I am particularly affected when someone says that this is a law that will hit Polish family companies, those who manage, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, you may be listening to what we are talking about here, ordinary people, so it must be said directly: this applies to people who, thanks to their diligence, resourcefulness, earn about 100 thousand PLN per month. But this isn't about people who are resourceful. It's about 21,000 people very much, but it's very rich. Let us not really deceive those who do not know exactly what it is, how it matters, etc., etc. The point here is that the state is imposing an additional There's nothing to hide about it. It's a tribute to people who aren't able to handle it, but they're very rich. None of these people will be harmed if they pay that extra money for such a fund. But at the same time, those who call for this fund to be universal must not miss the fact that part of the funds in this fund will come from a much larger group of people, because of all those working. They'll come from the Labour Fund. And those who say this fund is meant for something else... This was the case at first, but this fund was used by different governments for other purposes, when there were opportunities. And now there are possibilities. So, to varying degrees, there will be a lot of people involved in this fund, and I think that's a good thing. Let us really see that this is the next step towards making people with disabilities in Poland feel like full citizens. This is the most important thing in this bill, which I will, of course, support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u311	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Radziwill! We don't just know her, but we keep the bills. If you want me, and perhaps even my colleagues, to convince that 21,000 so-called. The rich... I mean, who's rich? If you had asked, out of the 21,000, no one would have confessed to saying he was poor. But let's leave it. If you are ....and the Minister....and the It believes and wants to convince us that 21,000 rich people, because let's assume that they are rich, levers the burden of solving the problems of disabled people in the number of 1 million people, because there are so many decisions about disability, it is me, as a graduate of the seventh grade of primary school, that I am storming. That won't solve the problem. And that's what fiction is. Do you know why it's set up like this? You know that. You just won't admit it. For the word "million" is an imaginary one, it is to stimulate: look, they are millionaires, and they are to give only a pair of zlotys. And that's not what I like: a socio-technical game. And why can't those who have 900,000 zlotys, Mr. Senator, pay off half of this contribution? [[They're not millionaires.]] Oh, they're not millionaires. Are they rich? [[That's what they make for a year.]] But they're rich? They're rich. [[Of course I do.]] And why aren't they in this bill? Because it doesn't work on the imagination, because it's about solidarity, it's about to hit millionaires. And I think they're rich. And the other thing. You know the construction of the tax and you know that the bill contains a regression, a raise, is introduced a second degree not because these people are rich, just because there are solidarity needs, it is for paying other cases, among others. Disabled cases. Because, in turn, for the disabled I will not use any other definition of the tax system provides for relief. And rightly my colleagues ask: why aren't you developing this tax system, in which, according to the idea of 500+, a disabled person determines what needs will be met? Let it be included in the tax system. What's the relief? 100, 200, 500 zlotys a year. No, the Minister better be in charge of this. He knows best. From Warsaw, without the help of anyone, on the basis of freedom, especially on the electoral... And he's gonna share it. So this is a mistake. Can this be improved? Yes, you can. And why aren't there farmers, rich farmers? Because, of course, they don't pay taxes. Yes, let's release them, although transfers to the countryside in terms of the disabled and the sick are proportionally much larger than those in the cities. Maybe this is about this election game, about making an electoral transfer to get another councilman, another mayor. This is the new vision of Europe of homelands. I propose that Prime Minister Morawiecki, when he says that it needs to be changed, go to Europe with this idea, perhaps even further, to Rome and present this vision there. So it's not solidarity. Not just common, she's none. It's just a socio-technical procedure with a plus, of course, a lie. Once again, there is another system coordinated by another minister, in which the various institutions are entitled to participate on the basis of the competition. [[Mr. Senator, four minutes, that's what we agreed.]] So I'm saying that this is a busted bureaucratic machine in the style of a centralist state...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u313	Thank you. [[You're thanking me for saying that?]] No. Thank you for putting up a dot. [[Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the room: Conclusions.]] I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Rulewski and Augustine. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there communications, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u314	Yeah, there's three messages. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the sixty-sixth Senate meeting to the draft law on the provision of compensation services will take place tomorrow, 26 October, at 8.15 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting for the Rural Houses' Wheels Act, Senate Printing No. 969, will take place today, 25 October, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in session in room 179. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act will take place tomorrow, 26 October, at 8.30 a.m. in room 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-25-senat-66-2.u315	Thank you very much. I'm gonna schedule a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 08]]
