ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Łukasz Schreiber, Agata Borowiec, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Krystian Jarubas. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Krystian Jarubas will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries... I see the seat at the president's table is already taken. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 10, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18 or immediately after the end of the votes. I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Kresowians, Kresowians and Eastern Land Heritages of the former Republic of Poland and Parliamentary Team of Friends of Lviv - time. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: The future of the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Nuclear energy - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Loreliosis - 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 14.45, - Parliamentary S6 and S11 expressway construction team - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 18, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors' Convention, decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the item: Report of the Committee on Culture and Means of Communication on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews during the Second World War, prints No. 1947 and 2020. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - Right of businessmen, - the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, - about the Central Register and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, - the rules governing the participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland, - Provisions introducing the Law on Business Law and other laws relating to business activities, - amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. The reports shall include prints 2267, 2268, 2269, 2270, 2271 and 2279 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute, the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I ask you to ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski from the Law and Justice Club. This question on the construction of the Polish-Lithuanian pipeline, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers by a government representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Mr Piotr Naimski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The gas connection with Lithuania is extremely important for the integration of the European gas system. Building this connection will help to eliminate energy islands, i.e. areas dependent on gas supply from only one direction. The implementation of the investment will enable the development of the transmission system in new areas, including in Podlaskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships, as well as the improvement of the technical parameters of the network across the country, as well as the attractiveness of the north-eastern regions of Poland for new investments, which are extremely important for the Podlaskie voivodship. The construction of this pipeline will significantly improve the gasification of the Podlaskie voivodship, which is currently one of the lowest in the country. In view of the above, I would like to ask you the following questions: At what stage are the work on the planned construction of the pipeline in the Podlasie Voivodeship at the moment? Whose municipalities of Podlaskie Voivodship are planned to build a pipeline? Is it clear how many inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodship will be able to use gas from the pipeline? What is the planned date for the start and completion of the works related to the construction of the pipeline in the Podlasie voivodship? What is the estimated cost of construction of the pipeline in the Podlaskie Voivodship, and what will be the source of the financial resources for its construction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u5	I ask Minister Naimski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! Thank you very much, Mr President, for this question, because it allows us to say what the state of construction of this pipeline is. He is called GIPL, the gas interconnector Poland - Lithuania, and just as Mr Starzdowski said in the question, he fits into the policy of the actual joining of the Baltic countries, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, to the European Union. I can say this: after some adjustments to the pipeline route, which were due to technical conditions, at the moment the schedule of this investment is approved, agreed, are signed agreements between Gaz-System, which is building on our Polish side, and the Lithuanian operator, as well as with the relevant European Commission agendas, because this project is being co-financed from the CEF fund, which I will talk about in a moment. As far as the practical website is concerned, location indications, location decisions in most cases, almost over the entire length of the pipeline route, have already been issued and construction permits are expected in May this year, 2018. The route of this pipeline passes mostly through the Podlasie region, because when we look at the map of Poland, also administrative, we see that the borders of the Podlaskie voivodship have a strange but historical course, i.e.. You can say, from Drohiczyn to Suwałk and Raczek. Suwałki are also in Podlaskie Voivodship. Therefore, 28 municipalities - you ask how many municipalities - these are the municipalities through which the pipeline route is routed. I'm not going to replace them all here, but it actually goes all the way through the voivodship. On the website you can find the route of this pipeline. In total, they are 273 km on the Polish side. Will the inhabitants be able to use this pipeline? Yeah, they'll be able to use it. Podlaskie is indeed very little gasified, as the gas industry says, and we also have trouble supplying Bialystok himself with gas, but this gas pipeline will indeed make a significant strategic improvement. Gasification of the Podlaskie voivodship is also carried out, only in an island way, by the gas company PGNiG. This local network, which is being set up, is so prepared that when the Gas-System will be able to deliver the transmission network, it will be possible to connect these local distribution networks to this pipeline, to this supply source. The end of this investment is 2021, the end of 2021. This is coordinated with our work on the main project that we are conducting, i.e. the construction of the connection from Norway through Denmark to Poland, Baltic Pipe. The construction of interconnectors, i.e. pipelines connecting the Polish system with its neighbours, is harmonised with the construction of this new connection with the Norwegian shelf. Cost. The cost is high. In the region of Podlaskie Voivodeship it is about PLN 1 billion, but at the same time it is so that from the CEF fund, as I mentioned earlier, we have a funding of around EUR 240 million, which, as it is easy to calculate, covers to a large extent the costs of this investment. This is a sign that this investment is an investment that is important for Europe, for the European Union. Additional funding will come from contributions from the countries concerned on the basis of a cross-border cost allocation mechanism. Therefore, these will partly be funds originating in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. What will be necessary will be added from its own Gas-System funds, i.e. from the transmission tariff, so to speak. Therefore, this project is being implemented, it is being implemented according to the timetable, it can be said that there are no special problems in this case. Of course, environmental issues, as usual, are an obstacle. They are defeated by an investor - Gaz-System. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u7	Thank you very much. Minister, please stay because we have a second question. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will ask an additional question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We agree on the strategic importance of this pipeline, while the inhabitants of the voivodship are interested in this regional or local element. You mentioned that local gas systems could be connected. In this connection, will cities be able to be connected to this pipeline quite quickly and to use the transmission gas? And a fundamental question concerning the largest city of the Podlaskie voivodship, i.e. Bialystok. It just so happens that this city has been passed by from the south by the Jamaican pipeline and cannot use this pipeline. Now this new gas pipeline, which will give the Baltic States a chance to connect with the whole of Europe, will also, from the north, miss Białystok. It is known that this pipeline can have a serious impact on economic development or hamper this development, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and in the case of Bialystok, this could happen. Is it therefore envisaged that Bialystok and neighbouring districts will be connected to this system in a future-proof way?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u10	With regard to the possibility or actually the timetable for connecting customers to this new gas source in Podlaski, this depends on the timing, or actually the speed of the gasification process, which is already taking place, as I said. It may be worth saying that this gasification process is now based on the supply of liquid liquefied gas. The gas company builds small local regasification stations, which are converting liquid gas into gas, which we already normally use, and for that, of course, a distribution network is built. The more this distribution network and these stains will be, as if they were already covered by the gas company, the easier it will be to join and the more legitimate it will be to connect to the transmission system. And that applies to everyone. This also applies to those cities that you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, on 6 April 2017 to give a false answer to the current question on consumer fraud. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice and will be answered by Deputy Prosecutor General Robert Hernand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u12	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. District Attorney! On 6 April 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the I asked you in this room as part of the current questions under which rules Nova Telecom with its registered office in Warsaw at ul. Górczewska 47, which in a surprisingly suspicious way receives personal data from Orange Polska. You answered me in such a way that these matters were dealt with collectively by the District Attorney's Office in Płock, and this answer was quite satisfactory to me in the sense that I thought it should be one prosecution to lead. Unfortunately, the answer was not true. I wanted to know what was the reason why you were giving a false reply to a Member of the Republic of Poland. Well, the prosecutor's office in Bielsko-Biała dies mass cases against Telecom Poland, but the justification is astonishing. The reason for this is that there's no way to proceed because of the uncovering of the perpetrator. And one more sentence. Let me quote here... Okay, that's enough. In this connection, I have this question: Did the prosecutor come from the district attorney's office in Bielsko-Biała with regard to the order for the sign. PR 1 Ds. 523.2017, does not know the address of Nova Telecom sp. z o.o.? I say that each person is cheated at the amount of approx. 1500 PLN, and in Bielsko alone it is almost 150 cases and I know that the problem is nationwide. So I'm asking you one more time to answer seriously, is the D.A.'s office going to protect you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nova Telecom company, and why is she doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u13	I ask the Deputy Attorney General Robert Hernand to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u14	Dear Marshal! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to your question, I informed you in April 2017 that the District Prosecutor's Office in Płock is conducting proceedings. I have also informed you of the number of suspects in this case. Now I'd like to inform you that this prosecution is conducting proceedings, the number of suspects has increased, and at the moment is 34 - first point. As for this part of your question, in which you are talking about the mass remission of cases in the prosecutor's office in Bielsko-Biała, I kindly inform you that this prosecutor has passed a total of 14 proceedings to the District Attorney's Office in Płock, including one case which has been terminated on the basis of Article. 17 § 1 point 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and one procedure terminated due to non-detection of perpetrators. These two proceedings, as I received information, were taken by the Płock Prosecutor's Office, the remaining proceedings with Bielska-Biała were submitted during the preparatory procedure. So it is not so, Mr Płock, that these proceedings are dying massively because even the decommitted proceedings are addressed to the District Attorney's Office in Płock. You mentioned your signature, I only wrote 523/2017. I, of course, Mr... If you have a letter in your possession in this regard, we thank you very much for this information, because if this procedure - terminated, I note - has not been transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Płock, then in the framework of the supervision of the Department of Economic Crime of the National Public Prosecutor's Office will intervene in this matter. In addition to the prosecutor's office in Płock, proceedings concerning the so-called. Consumer fraud is conducted by the District Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław and the District Prosecutor's Office in Jelenia Góra. The mechanism of action is actually similar, but you have to remember The fact that the number of cases is so... Although the Public Prosecutor's Office in Płock is the leading prosecutor in these proceedings, other prosecutors are also conducting proceedings in which subject-matter communications are examined between these proceedings. As of today, I can only say very clearly, Mr President, that this activity does indeed have certain features of organised crime. This has already been done by the prosecution within the framework of these arrangements. I deliberately do not use the names of companies, of course the Member has the right, and I did not use the names of these companies during the speech in April 2017, firstly, because of the good of the preparatory proceedings, and secondly, using the name of this company by the Attorney General is always a danger. I think that's knowledge for prosecutors as part of surveillance. I also wanted to inform you that in February 2018. The Department for Economic Crime has obliged all prosecutors to send any notification from the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection to the National Public Prosecutor's Office so that the National Public Prosecutor's Office can supervise these proceedings in connection with those notifications. This is to ensure that proper supervision is carried out and that procedures are properly conducted. Mr Bielsko-Biała, I would like to ask you very much - of course thank you very much for my part, although I do not have this signature mentioned at the moment, I checked in Bielsko-Biała exactly before I spoke - for this information to the National Public Prosecutor's Office. We will deal with this procedure and we will also check all these issues in Bielsko-Biała, although I have information from yesterday indicating the transfer of 14 proceedings to Płock - one terminated due to a lack of marks, and one terminated due to a lack of detection of perpetrators, these proceedings are already taking place in this regard. We thank you for all the information about certain shortcomings or irregularities that occur. It should be borne in mind that the number of notifications, cases that entered the prosecution's office in 2017 is over 992 thousand. Something may happen, although I believe, at least according to the information I received yesterday, that this action in Bielsko-Biała is appropriate. Of course, it was wrong to cancel the procedure for taking... It is obvious, but there is already a reaction in this area of the prosecution in Płock, and the National Public Prosecutor's Office is overseeing all these issues and all irregularities are simply trying to remove them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u15	Do you want to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u16	Mr. District Attorney, I'd have a request. I would like to receive in writing how many cases were with Nova Telecom from the date of my first request of 6 April 2017 until now. I understand, of course, that you're not gonna give it to me right now, so I'd like it in writing. It's easy to count: 1500 zł times some of the people you've been kidnapped, what are the amounts. 'Cause I don't know if anyone realizes that. In my opinion, it is highly reprehensible, Mr. District Attorney, that the prosecution, dying of the proceedings - incidentally, immediately serially passes six people in just one order - says: because the perpetrator was not discovered. And the unsub is known because he's generally available at KRS, ul. Górczewska 47, Warszawa - give the address. So this is not only inability, but also arrogance to older people, because in general older people are being duped. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'd ask you to take disciplinary action against this prosecutor because that's what one prosecutor is doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u17	Mr. District Attorney, do you still want to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u18	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Undoubtedly... I have just read these two proceedings, because there are two proceedings in this regard. (PL) Mr President, signature 1 Ds. 523 is not, I admit honestly, mentioned in this information I received yesterday. This second signature, 1 Ds... And, actually, it's the same thing, it's two... Okay, we'll check this procedure, see if it's passed on, see if it's passed on. We will check the validity of the decision in this regard. Of course, Mr President, if you ask such a question about a particular company, the answer will be given in the exercise of your parliamentary mandate. Thank you very much for the information in this regard, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u19	Thank you, Mr. District Attorney. [[Thank you, too.]] Let's move on to the next question. This is the question on the The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mr Andrzej Bittel will answer. The question will be asked by Catherine Czochar, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers adopted the National Railway Programme of 16 January by 2023. As we read in the document, this programme sets out the financial framework and the conditions for the implementation of the State's plans for the management of railway infrastructure. Minister! I have a question. What amount is earmarked for the implementation of this programme and from what sources? Another question. What are the funding rules and what is the main purpose of this programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u21	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, the second part of that question. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, also the Law and Justice. Just a moment, Minister. We'll finish the question and then we'll just... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would also like to ask whether the tasks of maintaining the railway infrastructure will be carried out within this programme in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u23	Now, Minister, please answer both questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u24	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, Thank you very much for this question, because the maintenance programme - I will allow myself to shorten this name for the purposes of this statement, I will not repeat every time that it is aid for financing the costs of managing railway infrastructure, etc., but I will use the wording of the maintenance programme - this is the first multiannual programme relating to the maintenance of railway infrastructure. There's never been such a show, there's been a fitting in previous years. They failed, this program was not accepted. And it is very important because, on the one hand, we have a national railway programme where we have a broad investment front related to the modernisation of the railway line, and on the other hand, we have a second element, which is very important, namely renovation and maintenance, which will allow this network to be modernised, but also one that is not modernised, at this stage it will be able to serve all users: passengers, carriers, passenger carriers, cargo carriers. This is very important, important information, because it can be said that in addition to this 66 billion by 2023 from the investment of the National Railway Programme, we have 23 809 300 thousand. for the maintenance programme until 2023, and must be added more than 3 billion, which are included in the current budget, also related to maintenance work. Nevertheless, the programme allows to achieve a few practical but also substantive objectives, because the multi-annual programme will by its nature allow to conclude a multi-annual agreement with infrastructure managers and thus optimise the costs of their operation, introduce them into their operation - mainly here we are talking about PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe as such a dominant entity, not to say: monopolist, related to infrastructure management - market mechanisms, i.e. mechanisms that will also make the use of the public penny even better, even more efficient, even more effective. Another element is the start of the process of closing maintenance arrears, because it must be said that one of the problems is that many years of non-investment in the Polish railway, in railway infrastructure caused that these railway lines were excluded from use, eliminated. We want to stop, reverse and start restoring rail traffic on railway lines, which is to do what should have been done throughout the free period of Poland, and unfortunately not quite so. It is also worth noting that the maintenance programme is one of the elements of a responsible development strategy, it is included in this strategy, so it also fits into the strategic objectives of the whole country, and this is a very, very important issue. I mentioned issues related to improving the efficiency and efficiency of the railway manager. I am referring here to the introduction of two important pro-efficiencies, which are aimed at implementing the programme. These indicators are the average speed of running trains, so-called. commercial speed. We're not talking about the maximum speed, which, for example. In the case of the Pendolino train it is 250 km/h - but it does not actually drive at that speed in Poland - we are talking about the commercial speed, which is already calculated from point A to point B, the number of kilometres reached. It's such a very important indicator. The second indicator is the cost of railway infrastructure management activities incurred per train km of in-service work. It's a bit of a rail speech, but it's about reducing this indicator so that this job, this cost per train kilometer gradually. It's growing. We are aware that this process will be long, while from the point of view of carriers or railway operators, increasing commercial speed, improving capacity, i.e. the possibility of sending more trains, at a higher speed, is also an element that reduces operating costs, so this is also very important. As part of the benefits of the programme, apart from the objective of increasing average commercial speed on categorized railway lines, we are also going to improve the punctuality of the qualified trains and increase the share of railway lines operated that meet technical standards compared to the overall length of railway lines operated from 82% to 88%. We're gonna do a categorization and we're gonna plan work according to this categorization so that we can [[♪ The bell ♪]] railway processes could have been carried out smoothly. And that's probably the most important thing. Thank you again for that question. It is a very important program, another program for the good of the Polish railway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u25	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? Not anymore. Well, thank you very much, then. Let's move on to the next question. This will be a question about the investor for the decommissioning of the Krupiński Coal Mine acquired by the employee company. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy will answer Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. We begin by asking Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u26	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2016, you decided to liquidate the Krupiński mine. On 31 March 2017, you transferred the mine to liquidation when Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, who owned it, achieved a profit of about PLN 1 billion. You've eliminated a mine that has a deposit that has a concession by 2030. It is necessary to spend 400 million PLN to liquidate this mine, to implement this investment, so that it can function, about 300 million PLN. At that time, the workers stood up to the task. Today, they decided to save this mine at all costs, set up an employee company, and, following the example of Silesia mines, they found an investor. There was an investor from the Czech Republic, here supposedly is an investor from the UK who wants to give his own money. This money is intended to be sufficient for the mine to be set up in order to continue its extraction, as well as for the full reimbursement of the costs of state aid granted by the State. Minister! This employee company, founded also by trade unions, still says that in December it presented you with its way of further functioning, presented the data about the investor, but no one wants to talk to it. The investor gives money, launches the mine, employs over 2,000. employees, wants to pay taxes. What else can be done to allow a meeting with this company to take place? I have questions for the Minister. Did you meet with representatives of this employee company and talk about mining in Krupinski? When are you gonna meet this investor? Were there any meetings with other investors who were also willing to operate? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u27	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! I'm just gonna have to ask you a follow-up question. Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u28	But, sir, the time of 2 minutes has been used, and the next thing you know... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as Krupinski is concerned, I will not go back to history because there is a signed agreement with financial institutions that have made a decision about Krupinski on the economic aspect, but it is already known and I think we will not go back to it. On the other hand, as far as the offer is concerned, I would like to say that information has been received that a company with a particular name is interested in investing. We asked for details, because if someone is talking about a few hundred million, they should show that they have such resources and resources at their disposal, because there is a certain responsibility on the one hand for those who would get involved in this company. I would like to say that we are currently analyzing the capital of this company, which is why there has not yet been a meeting between me or Mr Tchórzewski and Tamar's representatives, because on February 15th - I have this document before me: Warsaw, 15 February - this information has been received. It was only 19 February that we received it. These are the information that has been included here. On the other hand, we would like to see - I think it is understandable - how many funds are in the account, what are the safeguards, because this is what makes it possible to consider this offer as an important offer. At this stage, the partners are SRK, because, as you know, this is the issue and the development of assets, and at the same time the allocation of certain measures which are related to the restructuring process, as the European Commission requires. So so far we do not have such material, while all the details about the company, all the details of the financial potential are analysed, so that we can seriously answer that, because indeed, the employee company, which is located there by the social side, also appeared with information that there is a company Tamar, which has an idea for a venture. If you look at what it's been like over the years, you'll see that there have been many ideas that someone wants to invest in Polish mining, while these processes are dragging on and you have to pay attention, and it's also worth showing that big capital usually likes silence. Let us ask ourselves why there is a very big information noise around Krupinski every time an investor appears, there is more information in the media than we have in the ministry. It is merely such information that we should all care about the hard coal sector as well as ask ourselves why the information is coming, there are already journalists and you are also absorbed, and we de facto, even if we wanted to, are not able to give you the data, because we simply do not have them. I can even invite the parliamentarians to see the documents. You have an insight as parliamentarians, with a certain confidentiality clause, into what we have in the Ministry, so that if you think you would like to see these materials, I cordially invite you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Bańkowski, the Civic Platform, will now be able to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question to the Minister: Is it true what the head of Silesia-Dąbrowska Will these winding-up activities in the future result in a halt to the resumption of mining and production activities in the Krupiński mine and what are the social costs for the local community in connection with the decommissioning of this mine?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u32	The remaining part of the time will be used by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u33	Dear Minister, Tell me why - you want good examples, even here in reply, you said that - you do not take an example from the Silesia mine? It is very close, within dozens of kilometers of the mine, where the social side also went a very, very long way in the fight for jobs and just for the operation of its mine. And now at the beginning of this term, as we talked about restructuring mines, [[♪ The bell ♪]] was replaced, changed by all cases as an excellent example of a well-functioning mine. Why don't you learn from it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u34	You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for what is currently happening in Krupinski, according to the traffic plan that is approved there... I do not know that the actions are against the Higher Mining Authority. This information will be checked today because I don't have that knowledge. But from what I know, because we actually get reports regularly, that's where the process is running according to the planned actions. Even all these processes are related to the development of the property, as well as the Jastrzębska company has some plans, is interested in some part of the deposit. So it's not like we don't have it somewhere in the plan that the deposits that are out there will be used in the future, but we just want to use them so that this coal can be economically sold. On the other hand, on the example of Silesia, this is a good example, Madame, it is true. As we compare these two processes, on the one hand we have a different scale, this is a fact, while there is an investor, i.e. Czech investor, showed interest at the very beginning with financial collateral. I must also say to you that, on the one hand, I am glad that Silesia is on the Polish market, but I will also say that in this difficult situation, when there was a mining crisis at all, an offer was received to the Ministry of Energy, the owner wanted to sell Silesia to the Treasury. I think that in cooperation with the Ministry of Energy - we did not talk about this because this is a private entity - we managed, I think, to work out some processes in discussions in the Ministry. Currently, a private investor from Silesia, where our employees are, has also gained stability. I do not hide that, of course, these examples are taken into account, but this cannot be transferred directly to the Krupinski issue. It is also my invitation so that you can get to know certain meanders related to Krupinski, because believe me that Silesia, which I know, and even if you compare it, we have two processes related to investment, and the Krupinski issue are indeed two different cases that cannot be compared, because Krupinski is much more complex, much more complicated, and Silesia is known to me. I do not hide that I judge this process very well, therefore I am in constant contact with the Czech partner when it comes to representatives in the Czech Republic, as well as with the representative and representation from Silesia on the Polish market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u36	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The question on the regulation of legal services is addressed to the Minister of Justice and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Currently, more than 20,000 are registered in the REGON register. Law firms. Often these are not companies run by lawyers or lawyers. In particular, those conducting individual activities usually use the term "law firm" or "law firm." Today, the possibility of establishing a business activity Mon. The law firm is not limited in any way. Such an entrepreneur does not need to have legal education or qualifications, he is not bound by professional secrecy, professional ethics or compulsory civil liability insurance. At the same time, the low awareness of the citizens in this area makes them convinced by the services of these firms of numerous tightenings concerning the way in which they perform legal services. Does the Ministry plan to introduce restrictions on the use of legal firms in the company, so that the possibility of using them is reserved only for those involved in professional legal assistance?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u38	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, it is necessary to emphasise that neither the Law on Lawyers nor the Law on Lawyers currently use the concept of "legal law firm," but use the terms "lawyer law firm" and "lawyer law firm." Art. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Lawyer's rights and Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law on Legal Counsels indicates that the lawyer and legal counsel carry out the profession accordingly, among others. At the law firm and at the law firm. On the other hand, as regards the form of the law firm that you are asking about, the activity in this form is subject to the Freedom of Business Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of this law we read that the taking-up, pursuit and termination of business is free for everyone on an equal footing. The exceptions to this rule apply only to the exercise of regulated economic activities or economic activities which are licensed. Therefore, it is up to the legislator's decision whether regulations, concessions and restrictions will be introduced in this direction and, as regards the question of the Member, whether another one will be added to this catalogue of exceptions to the principle of free economic activity: the conduct of business in the form of a law firm. However, these issues lie not in the competence of the Minister of Justice, but in the competence of the Minister responsible for economic affairs, because this is no longer our field of activity. The sphere of economic activity is not the field of the Minister of Justice. However, it should be stressed that the protection of the rights of lawyer and counsel is already ensured. After the end of the 1990s, when these titles were abused in practice and used by unauthorised persons, the legislator decided to amend the Law of 22 May 1997 on the amendment of the Law on the Law of Lawyers, the Law on Legal Counsels and some other laws, i.e. a solution consisting in the protection of these professional titles: lawyer and legal counsel. Art. 1 paragraph 4 Lawyer's rights and Article. 1 paragraph 2 Laws on Legal Counsels protect these two professional titles. In this context, it is complementary. Code of offences provides for the criminality of conduct involving the taking of such titles - Article. 61 § 1 of the Code of Offences. So, in view of the above, I would like to point out that, on the one hand, we are already dealing with the protection of the concepts of the law firm, the law firm, and, on the other hand, we have the law on freedom of economic activity, which is not our domain. On the other hand, I would just like to point out that many law firms operate on the market in the broad sense of this wording, which are also organised in accordance with the principles of the Commercial Companies Code. These are civil partnerships, these are O.O. companies. And here, most often in such a company - the name, or company - we have either name names or an indication in some other way that it is people who are partners who are running this type of company at the moment. So that we have different forms of lawyering, practicing this profession and providing legal assistance, but as for the issue that you are asking about, the Minister for Economic Affairs is already responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u40	Thank you. And the additional question will be asked by Mrs Lidia... no, Anna Borowiak. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u41	Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u42	Joanna?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As you said, there are limited-liability law firms on the market, e.g. in the form of limited liability companies. They are often run by non-lawyers. They should then hire professional lawyers, but the rules are not so strict and unambiguous in this respect, so they simply do not do so. This does not constitute an acceptable form of pursuit of the profession of public trust, such as the profession of a lawyer, counsel or other professional lawyers who have legal qualifications. It is not about eliminating those companies that operate, but about introducing regulations so that citizens who use their services are aware that they are not going to a professional law firm that employs lawyers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now the question is: If the Ministry of Justice sees a problem, does it intend to present regulations in this area together with the Ministry of Economy and do you intend to - or are you considering - to apply mechanisms that limit market practices that mislead customers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u44	Ms Joanna Borowiak's additional question will also be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Indeed, as you have already pointed out, there are many different types of terms in the market. For example, activities in the form of companies in the form of o.o. or non-disclosure companies are activities that occur under the name, a company not legal firm, a law firm or a law firm or a law firm, but e.g. Kowalski and his associates. That is why I am merely pointing to a problem, a huge legislative problem, with regulation of this issue, and, as I have already said before, with the question of the competence of the Minister responsible for economic affairs. So that this topic, this issue is extremely complex and complex, because also in this case it would affect companies, law firms, which do not have a name in the title: the law firm or the law firm, for example. the names of the partners or partners. I don't know, to be honest, how it could be regulated by meeting the expectations of your messengers... [[These are not our expectations, Minister.]] ...and I say, what is our domain, the Minister of Justice, is regulated. Both the question of the name of the lawyer's law firm, the law firm, and the question of the protection of the professional title of lawyer or counsel are already regulated. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs plays a major role in this respect and I cannot prejudice this at this time and impose any expectations on the Minister from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u46	Let's move on to the next question. This will be the question of the Court of Justice's opinion on the section in the Białowieża Forest addressed to the Minister for the Environment. The question will be answered by Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, and the question will be asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland started a war in the Białowieża Forest with a printer's barker, which was based on two decisions. The first decision was signed by Minister Szyszka in March 2016 by an annex to the plan to organize the forest of Białowieża, which tripled the acquisition of wood. The second was decision No.51 of the General Director of the State Forests of Mr. Konrad Tomaszewski, which allowed the logging of trees in all forest sounds, i.e. Białowieża, Browsk and Hajnówka, also in protected old trees. Thus, dry trees and trees settled with a printer were removed for about 34 thousand. ha Natura 2000 Forest of Bialowieza. Greenpeace activists together with six other organisations complained to the European Commission about the activities of the Białowieża Forest resorts. Ecologists demanded, among others. Expanding the national park to the entire forest, it's about the Bialowieza National Park. Finally, the European Commission has launched a procedure against Poland for infringement of European law, namely for non-compliance with the Birds and Habitats Directives. On 20 February 2018, Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union Yves Bot pointed out that Poland had broken European Union law because by fighting spruce-eating beetles through sanitary cuts and others, the authorities did not ensure that these forest management activities would not adversely affect an integral part of the Natura 2000 area of the Białowieża Forest. The Court of Justice of the European Union also [[♪ The bell ♪]] referred to the requirements of the Habitats Directive. I have a question to the Minister: Why have the Ministry of the Environment and the relevant institutions associated with the Ministry not made sure that the forest management activities undertaken within the Białowieża Forest will not adversely affect the integrity of the Natura 2000 area of the Białowieża Forest? Next: Will you cancel the annex to the plan to organize the forest of Białowieża and annul Decision No 51 signed by the director of the Conrad Tomaszewski State Forests? Despite the final judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the clipping in the Białowieża Forest, can you ensure that Poland will comply with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u48	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. I understand that the Member has asked all questions as part of the first question and additional question. [[No, one more thing.]] You've got eight seconds left, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! These changes to the 2016 forest plan should be preceded by a history, i.e. a previous decision to change the 2012 plan, in which the limits for obtaining wood from the foresight of the Białowieża Forest were reduced six times. 2016 was the restoration of less than half of this limit. As regards the precise reference to the question why the institutions have not satisfied themselves as to the admissibility or adverse impact on the integrity of Natura 2000 sites, I reply that, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Information and Protection Act, the involvement of the public was undertaken and the Regional Environment Director considered that the implementation of this plan would be likely to affect Natura 2000 and therefore recommended that a strategic environmental impact assessment be carried out in accordance with the Act. It has shown that the performance of the tasks enshrined in the annex to the plan to organise the forest of Białowieża in no way will adversely affect the species and habitats protected by Natura 2000 Forest of Białowieża and its consistency and integrity. For spruce species in the longer term, this will be beneficial: saving old spruce trees. It is therefore difficult to claim that this assessment has not been carried out or that it has not been verified that this would not be an adverse effect. As far as the Court of Justice is concerned, I would like to assure you that the Polish Government applies these provisions completely on 20 November. This provision included, among others, the following: an order to stop active forest management in the areas of the foresight of the Białowieża Forest, except for situations concerning the safety, health and lives of people, i.e. the removal of trees that threatened safety because they fell on the roads. That's a recommendation that's been obeyed, that's a sentence we've executed. The relevant letter was submitted to the European Commission in the second half of January 2018. The European Commission considered it sufficient, proven that this judgment of the Court was respected. On the other hand, when it comes to the subject of the sale of wood, of course, the sale of wood was not contested or discussed, and this is not the subject of a dispute as regards forestry. On the other hand, the issue was the cutting out of trees. Once again, I would like to assure you that Poland has complied with this provision. I myself was in the Białowieża Forest, and I can clearly conclude that such an arrangement was fulfilled. With regard to the cancellation of the annex, it is, of course, no longer possible to cancel it in the current formal state, because the limits in it have been practically fulfilled, while what has not yet been achieved is a minimum quantity which must still be used to remove trees that threaten the safety, life and health of people. At the moment, this limit is practically used completely. The Court, the Advocate of the Court of Justice, does not contest the merits of combating the gradation of a printer's barker. It notes, inter alia, that a balance should be found between active and passive management activities aimed at combating the gradation of the printer's root to achieve the conservation objectives set out in the Habitats and Birds Directives. We are now pursuing a decision to stop the removal of trees, but we are awaiting the final judgment of the Court of Justice. After this sentence together, in dialogue with the European Commission, we will establish a protection plan for the Białowieża Forest. I would like to inform you that last week I met with Commissioner Vella, the Commissioner for the Environment. I presented to him all the documents relating to the implementation of the provisional order of the Court of Justice and the plans after the final judgment. I believe that in the dialogue with the European Commission, also taking into account the best reasons for protecting the Białowieża Forest, I stress: as regards the protection of the Białowieża Forest... This does not mean that protection is only passive, because protection is also about finding the right compromise between passive and active actions in the field of forest management. Choose the methods that will best protect the Białowieża Forest to pass it on to the next generation in its best condition. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u50	I ask you to ask for an additional question, but remember that you have used it almost all the time, Madam Member. [[Short, I have very short, Your Marshal, if...]] It was supposed to be short, too, and it took almost three minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Very briefly. Then why, even though the Court of Justice of the European Union had twice ordered the clipping to be stopped immediately by the end of the trial, was it still conducted and used in the wilderness? And a supplementary question: If the Court of Justice of the European Union agrees with the European Commission's position on the clipping in the Białowieża Forest, will you seek to ensure that the persons responsible for the resulting situation have adequate property and criminal liability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u52	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Once again, I stress that after the publication of the judgment and the provisional decision of the European Court of Justice of 20 November, no work was carried out in the Białowieża Forest. I have really convinced the European Commission that they were not being conducted, so I think I will slowly convince you too. In addition, I invite you to the Białowieża Forest to check. [[I was there, Minister, because that's where I live.]] Therefore, if we are talking about the fact that action was being carried out after 20 November, it was really just what was involved in the security threat, and these arguments were acknowledged by the European Commission. I do not yet know how to convince you that we respect the order of the Court of Justice. On the other hand, when it comes to the matter of liability, as you say, property, criminal, etc., the proceedings were conducted in accordance with the law, so it is difficult to hold responsible someone who is acting in accordance with Polish law. Of course, there is a difference in the approach to protecting the Białowieża Forest, there is a difference between active and passive protection. The European Commission - whether the tribunal confirms this - concluded in the final judgment - considered that action should be stopped at this stage and looked at what should be done: whether to protect the forest passively or actively. I'm sure it'll be balanced somewhere in the middle. Hence, it is difficult to talk about criminal liability or any other liability if someone is acting in accordance with Polish law. On the other hand, all these decisions that were issued can be discussed in a substantive manner, but they were issued on the basis of applicable law, and it is therefore difficult to talk about directing any cases to prosecution. It might as well be possible to discuss a decision issued in 2012 reducing the limit of forest management in the Białowieża Forest six times, which led to, among other things, a decision. to the rapid gradation of the printer bark. At this point one can say that the printer's barker spread through that decision, which destroyed most spruce in the Białowieża Forest. Should that decision be subject to the same assessment as this one? That one was also taken according to the law. We can judge her in substance whether she was better or worse, but she was also taken according to the law, just like the next one, so there can be no prosecution for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u54	Let's move on to the next question. This will be a question about the actions taken by the Minister of Health to minimise or eliminate the risk of hypoglycaemia in diabetic patients. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marcin Czech will answer, and the question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u55	Minister! As the Marshal said, the questions will concern hypoglycaemia, or hypoglycemia. In recent weeks, organisations, promotional associations have undertaken broad information campaigns on this issue. For the record, this is a serious complication of inadequately treated diabetes. The spectrum of symptoms is wide, from excessive hunger and weakness, through visual impairment, difficulty in speaking, to loss of consciousness, and even coma. The cause of hypoglycaemia is often an inappropriate regimen for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, e. g. inadequate or poorly planned insulin dose, incorrect injection, abnormal glucometer. Among those most at risk of undersugaration are long-term people, most often older. Therefore, the following questions: Do you know if the problem of diabetic complications is taken into account when determining treatment regimens? Do Poles with diabetes have access to modern therapies that reduce the risk of complications? What measures are planned by the Ministry to minimise or even eliminate the risk of hypoglycemia among diabetic patients?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u56	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u57	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! The treatment of diabetes and the approach to diabetes is multi-specialist and actually combines with a comprehensive approach to both diagnosis and monitoring of therapy. At the same time, it is worth paying attention to the large individualisation of such therapy, as each patient is different, has different therapeutic challenges related to treatment. Education plays an undoubtedly huge role. We welcome every initiative of patient organisations and any other organisations that disseminate knowledge on this subject. When it comes to complications of diabetes, they also go in very many directions. There are neurological complications, and cardiovascular complications. One of these complications is hypoglycaemia, i.e. low blood sugar levels with all the consequences. This is, as the Member has pointed out, a complication that can be very burdensome. It must be said that the frequency of hypoglycaemia depends on a number of factors. Depends on your diet and compliance with this diet, depends on exercise, control of this exercise, depending on your treatment. And yet, taking a step back depends on the type of diabetes the patient has, whether it's type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, or another type of diabetes. As I said, diagnostics and monitoring are crucial here. glycated haemoglobin level, sugar level. With regard to the first question, i.e. diabetic complications, I would like to say that they are of course taken into account when determining the treatment schedule and what is also included in the list of medicines reimbursed. We pay attention to these complications. This is the end point in the studies when we decide which preparations we want to refund and which we do not. As far as treatment is concerned, the ministry's efforts are continuing, I would say. In order to improve the care of diabetic patients in the Regulation of the Minister of Health on outpatient care guaranteed services, the specific annex sets out the provision of guaranteed benefits in the case of specialist advice and the conditions for their implementation: the care of a diabetic patient to mention only one of our recent efforts and actions. It includes treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes, which is provided and implemented at all levels of treatment in both primary and outpatient care, including hospital treatment, depending on health needs and current clinical condition. Separated benefit: care for a diabetic patient as part of outpatient care is aimed at balancing hospital care and ensuring full care without the need for frequent hospitalisation and thus controlling the cost of treatment. The indications eligible for care under this specialist advice are type 1 diabetes mellitus, children and adolescents up to the age of 21 years, type 2 diabetes treated with at least three injections of insulin, so they are the most difficult for us to control and control. It requires intensified monitoring or modification of insulin therapy, which is often associated with intravenous infusions in order to regulate water and electrolyte disturbances. It is also important to have pregnant diabetes that we take special care of. As regards monitoring systems and recent developments, the Regulation of 31 January 2018 enters into force on 3 March 2018, the amendment introduces changes responding to patients' requests, including: the organisations referred to by the Member and the doctors whose aim is to increase the availability of medical devices, especially those with no awareness of hypoglycaemia but also hyperglycaemia. To this end, the list of medical devices has been extended by the following products: the insulin reservoir for the personal insulin pump, the sensor for the real-time continuous monitoring of glycaemic control system, CGM-RT. It was accepted that the persons entitled to receive the above. the population of patients up to 26 years of age with type 1 diabetes who are being treated with an insulin pump, with no awareness of hypoglycaemia, i.e. no symptoms of prodromic hypoglycaemia, excluding alcohol hypoglycaemia. The rules set out more detailed criteria for entry. The transmitter, the transmitter, is also refunded. The regulations indicate doctors who will be entitled to prescribe and receive medical devices. Mr President, it is also worth saying that the list of medicines that are available to patients with this condition is constantly being enlarged, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. In the latest list of 75+-refundable medicines that will start tomorrow, we will have sulphonylureas. There's already metformin, there's human insulin and analog insulin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u58	And Mr Tadeusz Dziuba will ask an additional question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u59	Minister, thank you for your extensive response, but there's one thing I need to ask you. The question is: Is the Ministry planning a full treatment refund that reduces the risk of undersugaration? Why is that a question? The way of refunding treatment for diabetics in Poland is associated with numerous limitations of refund so-called. long-acting analogues, and these limitations in turn make them unavailable to parts of the needy. Some say that even for the majority of those in need. Thus, adequate care for diabetic patients is too late when the health situation is at risk. That's why I'm asking you this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u60	Mr President, I am in a hurry to explain. When it comes to treating diabetes, most patients have type 2 diabetes. That's ok. 90%. Some even say it's over 90% sick. Treatment in these patients begins with diet control, planning exercise. We have diet advice that are included in specialized care. The next step and the first medicine that is used is metformin, while access to metformin is practically a lump sum fee for most patients, and the 75+ list is free of charge. Another group of medicines are sulphonylureas, to which access is also within the framework of a flat-rate fee practically for the whole society and they are free for seniors. Human insulins and analogue insulins are listed on the refund lists. The difference between the use of insulins at the most extreme is that in the case of human insulin you need to be more careful about the appropriate application and the combination of these injections with meals. Germany, a rich country behind our western border, is based on the treatment of its patients mainly on human insulin, very often on four injections, and are ashamed to admit - better control parameters for these patients and fewer hypoglycaemia than we do, therefore the main problem is probably not the type of insulin. As far as insulin analogues are concerned, they are listed on the refund list and are available to patients at large. The limit is based on human insulin and it requires a surcharge - it is indeed the case - whereas for elderly people, i.e. they are included in the 75+ list, insulin analogues are available free of charge, hence this group of people who, for natural reasons, have the longest course of their disease, have access to free treatment with analogs, which are probably more comfortable and bear a slightly lower risk of hypoglycaemia when they do not see all aspects of this treatment and control. So that for this group of patients we have basically no limits. As I said, our actions, as far as this latest reimbursement list is concerned, also aim to ensure that these earlier stages of treatment are accessible to patients. However, I stress once again in my last 8 seconds that the approach to the treatment of diabetes, also to the control of diabetes and to the avoidance of hypoglycaemia, should be comprehensive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u61	Let's move on to the next question. This will be a question about the amount of pension benefits and the pension valorisation rate in 2018. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki. The question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Poverty in many retired families is a fact. The situation sometimes becomes quite tragic when one of the spouses dies and this single pensioner for one benefit he receives is to pay for the apartment, the media, as well as to buy food and maintain himself in general. Unlike the previous PO-PSL coalition, this government sees this problem. Efforts are being made to improve the situation of pensioners and to remedy this poverty. E.g. free medicines were introduced for seniors, but let us also remember the significant increase in minimum pensions from last year, when out of eight hundred and eighty of the few zlotys, the lowest pension rose to 1000 zlotys gross and when the minimum of 10 zlotys of valorization was guaranteed - contrary to what we heard, this happened. Unfortunately, it did not really cover, as we planned, all pensioners, this increase was not realized for pensioners who have passed the pension benefit under the law, this automation of the retirement pension after reaching retirement age. We're fixing it this year. Minister, I would like to ask how many people will benefit from this amendment of the Act this year from March. But first of all, I'd like to ask you about this year's valorization. Fortunately, it will not be such a proverbial 3-gold valorization, it will be much higher. What does it matter to count this valorization? What's up? Whether, first of all, prices, or whether it is about this amendment of the law still in the previous rule of law and justice, when we have also introduced a share of wage increases, i.e. improvements in the situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the valorization of pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u63	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress the news, the relevance of this question, and I would like to thank you for this question as well. We're on the eve, literally, of a pension benefit valorization operation. As every year, yes and this year 1 March, all pension benefits will be converted using the valorisation rate. In fact, I have very good information for pensioners and pensioners, because this rate of valorisation of all pension benefits this year is definitely higher than the rate of valorization in previous years. Let me remind you: 2 years ago, 2016, 1 March, the value of 0.24%. Last year, 2017, March 1st, the value of 0.44%. This year's valorization rate will be 2.98% , almost 3% will increase all pension benefits. It is also important to emphasise the subject matter of this valorisation, because the valorisation includes not only pension benefits in the general system but also pension benefits in the agricultural system, in the uniform system as well. The new element that will accompany this year's valorisation, as mentioned in the question, will be the equalisation of the benefits levied by persons who have passed the pension status, the person receiving the pension for incapacity for work, the pensioner's status, have been granted the right to retirement on their own when the retirement age is reached, who have previously been beneficiaries of the pension for incapacity for work. Let me remind you that in September this year... [[Last night.]] ...last year, I apologize, the Sejm, at the request of the government, amended the pension law and provided for the guarantee of the lowest pension benefit also for persons who have retired from office, who had previously retired, without having a parallel minimum pension entitlement to the guarantee of the lowest pension benefit of 20 years for women, 25 years for men. Let me also remind you that in previous years, because of this very low rate of valorization, we used correction mechanisms. In 2016, such an adjustment mechanism was the decision to pay one-off pension allowances to those pensioners who received benefits at a relatively lower level than the average pension benefit. Last year we actually applied two correction mechanisms, because significantly - I think it is worth it to sound clearly - because by 13%, we increased the amount of the lowest pension benefits, the amount of the lowest pension benefits for total incapacity for work and by slightly more than 11% we have increased the amount of the lowest pension due to partial incapacity for work. Please compare these percentages with last year's valorization rate, as I mentioned, 0.44%. So this is a very significant increase. The second element used this year is the introduction of a minimum amount of increase in pension benefit of PLN 10. It can be said that this year such an element accompanying the valorisation is a one-off equalisation of the amount of the benefit to all pensioners who have acquired the right to an ex officio pension, after the end of the phase of the incapacity pension, to the amount of the minimum benefit from 1 March Ub. r., i.e. it can be said that this is such an annual equalisation. This means that pension benefits are valued at 102,98% ? This means that the lowest pension, the family pension, the pension for people completely unable to work from 1 March, i.e. from tomorrow, will increase by PLN 29.80, i.e. from tomorrow it will amount to PLN 1029,80. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The pension for partial incapacity for work will increase by PLN 22.35 and will amount to PLN 772.35 from tomorrow. They will also increase by PLN 25.03 in social pensions and will amount to PLN 865.03. Average pensions, which in December 2017 amounted to PLN 2207.96, will increase by about PLN 65.80. Average invalidity pensions, which amounted to PLN 1622.08 in December 2017, will increase by PLN 48.34 to PLN 1670.42. The average family pension from the Social Insurance Fund will increase by approx. PLN 56,89 and from 1 March the average amount of the benefit will be around PLN 1965,89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u65	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mr Marek Polak, and then finished by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I also wanted to focus on the pensionists with total incapacity for work, who, after retirement due to lack of adequate work experience, receive a benefit lower than the minimum, i.e. less than PLN 1000. To be sure, I would also like to ask whether this year's revalorisation will bring for this group of pensioners a total increase in pension to PLN 1029,80 plus a correction of the outstanding discrepancies arising after March 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u67	Thank you. I still have a question, Minister, quite an additional question. I wanted to ask if there's any work going on, any analysis, to change the principles of valorization. I am referring here to the most likely expected value of the amount-percent, so that there is a fixed amount to be introduced into the valuer of such a social element. Is this even considered? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I also wanted to add to my colleague's question: How much will be equal to those old pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u68	You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the first question, regarding the compensation of benefits for persons who have retired from office without an internship - I would like to remind you that this is a group of people of about 105 thousand. - it is these people who will receive, as I said, compensation with retroactive effect from 1 March 2017. These persons will also be covered from 1 March 2018 by the guarantee of obtaining the lowest pension benefit, i.e. they will receive an increase in the pension benefit up to PLN 1029,80. This is an operation, you can say, also a financial one. The cost of this one-off increase is about PLN 120 million, while, of course, the inclusion of this group of pensioners in the guarantee of obtaining the lowest benefit for the future is already included in the envelope that was entered in this year's budget in the Social Insurance Fund for the valorisation of pension benefits. This is the amount of PLN 6 billion. As far as the valorisation mechanism and the second question are concerned, Madam, today, as we know, there is a price-payment valorisation mechanism. This is a mechanism, you can say, taking into account two parameters, i.e. increase in the prices of consumer goods and services, i.e. an element aimed at maintaining the existing purchasing power of a pension or a pension for incapacity for work, as well as a wage element. We know that this valorisation rate also includes at least 20% wage growth. I'd say this is a valorization mechanism, which is a mechanism for worse and better times, right? When times are better, the economy is growing, wages are growing faster than prices, and thus the wage element allows pensioners to participate in the effects of economic growth. That's how it is today. That's today, because this valorization rate is almost 103%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the result of the very good situation on the labour market and the fact that average wages are rising very quickly. The price element is an element for worse times, isn't it? When economic growth is slower, then very often prices rise faster than wages, and this ensures that the purchasing power to date can be maintained. Of course, we know the flaws of the so-called. percentage valorisation, i.e. We know that those who receive relatively higher benefits... It is simply thanks to the valorisation mechanism that the nominal value of these benefits increases faster. The result is an increase in the gap, the difference between the amounts of pensions and pensions charged at a relatively lower and relatively higher level. I can say that a review of the valorisation mechanisms in different countries has been carried out. We also know examples of countries where there is a mechanism of percentage-quota valorisation, which we tested in a way, because even last year's valorization with a minimum increase of 10 zlotys is also an example of price-paid valorization. I will also remind you that we have a ruling from the Constitutional Court, which in a way narrowed us down here. It recognised compliance with the constitution of quota valorization carried out in previous years, but in a certain sense conditionally, i.e. has stated that such an operation is possible, does not infringe the constitutional principle of the right to social security, if it is incidental, one-off, and has de facto ruled out the possibility of introducing this mechanism permanently. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u70	The next question is to increase penalties for personal data breaches and is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, State Secretary at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Marek Zagórski. The question will be asked, both basic and additional, by Mr Jarosław Gonciarz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u71	Dear Marshal! Minister! The Personal Data Protection Regulation will enter into force on 21 May. We know that this is an EU regulation, we know that it will apply directly, but in order to improve the functioning of this solution, many specific problems need to be regulated in the national law. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that there are a number of ongoing cases in the prosecution in connection with the breach of personal data protection. The administrative penalties provided for in the GDPR may prove to be inefficient and dissuasive in relation to this act. In addition, my parliamentary office was approached by people who indicated that, after the entry into force of the law, many ongoing criminal proceedings concerning, for example, were to be terminated. stealing personal data or using them by fraudsters. I would therefore like to ask what measures the Ministry intends to take in order to further increase its sense of security, improve the protection of private data, especially after the entry into force of the EU Personal Data Protection Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u72	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that question. First of all, I would like to say that GDPR itself is a mechanism that improves the safety of citizens, and for this purpose it has been issued. We are currently working on projects that clarify the issues that have been left to the Member States to regulate, that is to say, we are working on the Personal Data Protection Act and the rules implementing this law. This is a very large package. I hope that we will be able to bring the law to the proceedings of the High House at the next meeting and then we will be able to enter with the next amendments related to this. On the other hand, in response to this question in detail, I would like to say that we have taken into account in the project the risks associated with the possible remission of criminal proceedings pending the entry into force of the provisions of the proposed Act on the protection of personal data - in the event of its implementation, in the event of a depenalisation of infringements. In view of the above, we have decided to introduce provisions in the draft, in the light of which a deliberate violation of the rules on the protection of personal data, both ordinary and sensitive, will be at risk - as it is today - of imprisonment for one year and two years in the case of sensitive personal data respectively. So to put it simply, there will be no redemption of any personal data protection proceedings pending prior to the entry into force of the proposed Act on protection of personal data. We have also introduced into the project the Penalization of Obstacles to Control of Personal Data Protection Rules. So someone who will thwart or hinder the controller from carrying out checks on the protection of personal data will be subject to fines, restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. I would also like to point out that we see the need to make the national personal data protection system more effective. This is a whole series of tasks, e.g. strengthening the personal data protection office itself. There are budget appropriations for this. But I'm going back to the main thread. The Act also introduced a separate legal basis for referring claims to the General Court for breaches of data protection rules. The claim will not be competitive to the claims provided for in the Civil Code for breach of the rules on the protection of personal data. Therefore, a claim for breach of personal data protection rules will not preclude a complaint for breach of personal property, i.e. the right of privacy. It seems, therefore, that such regulations will address this problem in an appropriate way, which the Member has spoken about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u74	Thank you. Please ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u75	Thank you for your answer. Minister! I would like to point out that it is difficult for the average user of personal data to see the moment when personal data are detached from him and begin to live their own lives by exchanging them between the wrong parties. This is due to the fact that data are often given in a low reflective manner for current purposes. Are efforts being made to increase citizens' awareness of their personal data, e.g. through some active social campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u76	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! I would like to stress once again that GDPR itself is a mechanism that responds to the weaker position of consumers, citizens, towards those who process these personal data. As a result, the GDPR focuses first on the obligations of commercial operators, i.e. business, and administration towards citizens and introduces a number of limitations that result from such observation that the citizen is simply weaker in this process and is less aware that these data should be protected. Therefore, the whole range of solutions that result from the Regulation and later from these actions I mentioned, among others. at the level of national law, in principle it is intended to protect a citizen who does not have to and should not, i.e. Of course, he should take care of his data, but he does not need to know all these legislative intricacies. That's one thing. We hope that the introduction of these new rules will make this protection of citizens better. On the other hand, awareness-raising measures are needed. These awareness-raising activities will be carried out and must be carried out on a multi-track basis: from basic education through information campaigns. The Ministry of Digitization, as part of its responsibility and its activities, will carry out this as far as we can, but we safeguard both the forces and the means to run campaigns, mainly in social media, because here we see the greatest potential and need. Regardless of this, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data will conduct such activities primarily, today the Chief Inspector of Personal Data. We also believe that other institutions, including those that use these data, are also involved in this process, also for their sense of security, because the truth is that the conscious citizen on the other side is the fewer cases and doubts that arise in this process. As I said, in addition to education, which is certainly needed, information that is certainly needed, the basic purpose of these changes is precisely to protect citizens and consumers. So I think that in the package it should not solve this problem, certainly not, because low awareness of citizens requires longer work, but it will certainly help. First of all, it is about the fact that this discussion is currently underway because we have had a public consultation with a number of organisations that are also working on citizens' awareness, so this information movement is quite large and will increase over the next few months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we are approaching the date of entry into force of the GDPR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u78	We move on to the next question about restoring local border traffic with the Russian Federation. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration of Ms Renata Szczech will answer. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u79	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! A small border traffic was introduced in December 2011. It included border areas, which had a positive impact on the development of tourism, the gastronomic industry or trade relations in the border area. In July 2016, the Polish Government suspended the relevant agreements with the Russian Federation, arguing this need to increase the level of security during the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. However, the suspension of the agreement continues until today. For what reason? That's my first question. Why has the government still not restored visa-free border traffic with Russia, knowing that the suspension has a negative impact on the economy of border counties in Pomerania and Warmia-Mazurski voivodships, including local companies in the tourism, crafts, catering, cultural and commercial and service sectors? What about the initiatives planned in the framework of cross-border cooperation? Does the government believe that this is fair to entrepreneurs and workers of these industries from border areas neighbouring Russia? The visa-free traffic ban, which is escalated by the ban on trade on Sundays, causes economic losses estimated at PLN 300-500 million per year. Is the government aware that the data given by the government calling these figures into question is unbelievable because they are based only on VAT returns? However, the VAT refund is only reported when purchasing more than PLN 300. Does the Polish government plan to support Polish entrepreneurs who are suffering heavy losses due to bad government decisions in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u80	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, This decision by the Government of the Republic of Poland to continue the suspension of the local border traffic agreement with the Russian Federation was and is dictated by national security considerations and the need to reduce the risk of dealing with all kinds of threats. This could enable the development and freedom to pursue the interests of the Polish state. Here it is important to stress the importance of monitoring in a continuous manner threats to Poland, which have been aggravated in the last perspective, especially if these are phenomena such as the exercises of the Russian armed forces Zapad or the increasing militarisation of the Kaliningrad region, accompanied by the process of settling in this area of military personnel and the increased activity of special forces and other forces departments. I briefly present these major threats from one area. I would also like to point out, which is particularly important, that in Elbląg, not far from the Polish border with the Kaliningrad circuit, the Multinational Northern East Division is stationed coordinating NATO forces on the eastern flank. These are facts that are difficult to discuss in the context of security. I would like to stress that the issue raised by the Member is not and cannot be seen as the only action to improve the level of security of Poland in relation to the risks arising from the circuit. A key project in this area is among others. just as I said, very important - I stress this once again - strengthening the flank of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, as well as the efforts of Poland in the European Union to maintain a firm course in politics towards Russia in relation to its actions in Ukraine. It is also worth noting that the suspension of local border traffic and the support of passenger traffic across the Polish-Russian border on the basis of obtaining visas allows Polish services and public administrations to verify more thoroughly and more frequently foreigners seeking entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland. The crossing of the border by the Russians on the basis of a local border traffic card was largely replaced by crossing the border on the basis of visas. We do not note the problems with obtaining these visas, nor do we see clearly the phenomena mentioned here by the Member. The conditions on which the Russians cross the border must, however, first of all, respond to the need, as I mentioned, to ensure security in our country. According to the Border Guard statistics, border traffic at the border with the Kaliningrad circuit is steadily increasing. These are examples after its suspension, e.g. in July and August 2016 exceeded it respectively, I can give here the numbers 237 498 people. Then it's an increasing number - 252,000. However, in the corresponding months of 2017, the passenger traffic was significantly higher. We can send you these statistics, detailed, month after month, we have these tables. [[Send it in.]] I don't want to take any more time to pass on the details. [[I'd love to read it.]] In your question, there have also been economic arguments, the allegations made by you concerning the poor condition of small and medium-sized companies from border areas. I propose to confront this with the data of the CSO and the National Tax Administration, which do not confirm the thesis presented. According to estimates by the CSO in 2014 and 2016, the lowest level of expenditure of foreigners was recorded in the first quarter of 2016 - it was just over 105 million PLN - i.e. during the period of validity of the small border traffic agreement. In the first quarter of 2017, the value of spending of foreigners coming to Poland from the circuit amounted to almost PLN 125 million, i.e. 18% more than in the same period of 2016. I'll give it to you for comparison. The total value, I will stress, of the expenses of foreigners coming to Poland from the region amounted to slightly more than PLN 271 million in the first half of 2017. I stress once again: this is an increase of almost 14.5% compared to the same period of 2016, so the thesis about reducing the value of purchases of goods and services in Poland due to suspension of the operation of the contract is completely incorrect. As I say, we can send these detailed statistics to your information. I will further stress that according to the KAS data, the number of accounts registered at border crossing points with the Kaliningrad circuit within the so-called. The tax free system remained at the level of June 2016 in August and September 2016, i.e. there are no differences. I would add that this did not translate into a fall in the value of goods purchased by Russians in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as evidenced by the level of value of goods exported under tax free. We can also make the data available to you, and they will be sent to you by your Member. Cooperation in border areas based [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the difference in prices of goods purchased by residents or on the search for stable, legal forms of economic life? I would like to stress that the suspension of small traffic and the support of passenger traffic across the Polish border on the basis of obtaining visas allow Polish services and authorities to verify foreigners seeking this entry more thoroughly and more frequently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u82	Additional question. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As it happens, I am a Member of Warmia and Mazury, I speak directly to the residents of the border counties and they have a completely different opinion about this than the Minister. It is clear that the suspension of local border traffic has resulted in a very significant reduction in turnover with the Kaliningrad circuit, as well as a reduction in the growth opportunities of small and medium-sized companies in this area. Minister, I have also performed several times with local border traffic interpellations, and I have always received a reply that this is a temporary suspension of local border traffic. Since it's been almost two years since the suspension, for how long are you going to keep this temporary suspension? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A small border traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u84	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the supplementary question by the Member, I would like to point out once again that it will be very important here for the bodies I have mentioned. The suspension of traffic did not translate into a fall in value at all, which I will mention and what I would also like to confirm in a written reply to you. On the other hand, the important problem that we wanted to point out is that the suspension of traffic has resulted in a significant reduction in the illegal activities related to the smuggling of fuel, cigarettes and alcohol. And that's what we can measure with a reduced number of tax criminal proceedings and fines. It's very clear at this time. In relation to the period prior to the suspension of the contract, their number has decreased significantly, which translates - I apologise, this is the answer to the argument put forward by your Member - to statistics that say that entrepreneurs in the small border traffic area do not, however, indicate that they do not note the negative effects of the suspension of the agreement. As I say, let us work on numbers, this argument can also be analysed on the basis of the aspect of fiscal criminal proceedings and the mandates imposed. As for this period - I was talking about the reasons why this movement was suspended - he was not planned in any way and was not supposed to be a long-term solution at the time, and at the moment this discussion has returned in the context of the planned mass event, as I would like to say here, regarding the championship of the ball. I think there is no reason to be concerned at this moment to raise such doubts, because according to information published by the Polish consular services fans who will buy a ticket for the match, they will certainly be able to benefit from appropriate facilitations in crossing the Ukrainian border. This is how I supplement it, because I am running into a very distant future, where we are already very much planning steps and actions to improve border crossings. [[Russia. Are you talking about Russia or Ukraine?]] No, I'm talking about the Kaliningrad circuit and now the planned championships. Member, if I may, however... I'm talking about what the government is already doing ahead of time so that we can... [[You used the term Ukraine, which is why I'm asking.]] ...to improve border traffic liquidity [[♪ The bell ♪]] on this episode. Thank you. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u86	Another question on the access of the Minister of National Defence to classified documents, addressed to the Minister of National Defence, is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo and Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u87	Dear Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. It's been over two months since the government's reconstruction. But we have a meat loaf with Minister Macierevich. As it is possible that Antoni Macierewicz occupies a ministerial office in his, you can call it, a principality on the street. The clone, after all, is a private Member and member of the Committee on National Defence, while the new leadership of the MON is moving, moving to its second headquarters, at al. Independence? If I were malicious, I should ask how much it costs to rent a place so exposed by Antoni Macierewicz for a month. How is it possible that Antoni Macierewicz still has access to the most guarded places in Warsaw? The clone of the neighborhood with the American embassy is one of the most protected places... [[Russia.]] ...in Warsaw. There is the Operational Centre of the Minister of National Defence, i.e. the Office for Anti-corruption Procedures, where Antoni Macierewicz met with the most important guests, mainly due to the best anti-tapping safeguards. Final question: Minister - please answer now and in writing I would also ask - does Minister Macierewicz still have access to the most important secret state documents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u88	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u89	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this question was asked today or finally asked in the plenary room of the Polish Sejm, because it is worth giving comprehensive and detailed information in this area and also to lie more to media reports or fake news, which are so strongly exposed and operated in the media space over the past months. I am therefore convinced that I will provide you with comprehensive information and that it will not need to be completed in writing. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, MON headquarters at ul. The clone 1 and the cabinet of the Minister of National Defence remain at the disposal of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and are not occupied by Mr Antoni Macierewicz. In a building on the street. The official meetings of the Minister of National Defence take place in clone 1 and there are official foreign delegations or official visits of foreign guests when they are accepted by the Minister of National Defence. Mr Antoni Macierewicz, on the other hand, as chairman of the subcommittee for the re-examination of an aviation accident, uses rooms in another separate building located in a complex of buildings on the street. Clone in Warsaw. These rooms, these rooms, were made available for the purpose of the subcommittee to investigate an air accident by the Minister of National Defence. Let me stress once again: in a separate building. If you have knowledge, gentlemen, and you have knowledge, because you've probably visited a building on the street. Clone 1, for example, at closed meetings of the National Defence Commission, this is the building where there are literally two or three small rooms. [[Piłsudski's manor house.]] That's another line. According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information may be made available to a person only to the extent necessary for the performance of his or her duties or for the performance of his/her duties. The aforementioned regulation is commonly referred to as the principle of knowledge necessary. It refers to the fact that not every person with an appropriate security clearance may have access to all or selected classified documents. A classified information document shall be made available only to persons designated by the authorising officer of that document. Mr Antoni Macierewicz, who has an adequate safety clearance, can access only documents relating to the work of the subcommittee on the re-examination of an air accident which are necessary for the proper performance of his duties as chairman of that subcommittee, and as regards the storage and sharing of documents containing classified information, the Ministry of National Defence shall comply with all the provisions and procedures set out in the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information and its implementing acts. One more short line. As you probably know, in a building on the street. Klonowa, as I said, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak accepts official delegations, there are official meetings there. He's in the building at al. Independence. There was also transferred the Operational Centre of the Minister of National Defence, no longer located in the building at ul. Clone. At ul. Only the Secretary of State Wojciech Skurkiewicz on the ground floor of this building is temporarily in office. You're welcome. If you gentlemen have such a need to exchange information, I invite you to Clone One. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u90	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for that answer. In fact, you have confirmed to me that Minister Antoni Macierewicz still has unlimited authority. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak almost gave way to the former Minister. Looks like we're in some kind of trouble, 'cause it doesn't look good. It seems like Minister Mariusz Błaszczak couldn't sit in his own office, so we have this dissonance. As Minister Mariusz Błaszczak wants to enjoy the authority of his subordinates: officers, commanders, soldiers, if he cannot recover his office on the street. Clone? The transfer of management - it is also my question whether it is only about the MON Operations Centre, whether the entire management of MON will move to al. Independence. Will Clonow really become such a principality of Antoni Macierewicz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what it looks like, so my question is whether we will actually keep asking the question of what Antoni Maciarewicz does on Klonowa 1, in the so-called. Polish pentagons? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u92	Thank you, sir. I ask Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen! Well, we can keep moving around like this. I'll say it again... [[It's hard to answer, isn't it?]] Let me repeat: Clone 1 is the place which will be this area of representation for the Minister of National Defence. You will admit it, gentlemen, and you will admit, ladies and gentlemen, unless you're right, that the very location of the building or building complex on the street. Clone 1 in the immediate vicinity of the Russian embassy is not fortunate for one of the most important resorts in the government - the Minister of National Defence. It's a shame the predecessors... [[Voice from the room: Or the other way around?]] [[Voice from the hall: After all, we are in Poland.]] Gentlemen, this discussion has been taking place for many years, over at least a dozen years, whether the Minister of National Defence should actually be in the immediate vicinity of the Russian embassy. [[Then move to Zakopane.]] We believe the Law and Justice do not. Therefore, the decision of the Minister of Defence, Mariusz Błaszczak, to transfer all those members of the national defence department's management to the building at al. Independence. There are already some ministers, including Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, Head of the Ministry. In the next few weeks, Minister Łapiński will also move there from the residence at ul. Clone 6 and probably in the next few weeks - by the month - I will also move as Secretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence, right there to the building at Al. Independence. This building at Klonowa 1 remains only the representative area of the Minister of National Defence. [[Anton Macierevich.]] I'll say it again: you're using the wrong language. And Mr Suski knows very well, because he has often been in the so-called. base, what are these rooms on the top floor of this building: two or three tiny rooms with very modest furnishings, very modest conditions. Mr President, it is not true. I believe Minister Antoni Macierewicz resided in the cabinet of the Minister of National Defence at ul. Clone 1. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u94	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information will be considered at this session of the Sejm on the unexplained links between the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator, his deputy and the head of the CBA with the former Vice-President of the Office of Property Management currently in custody. Warsaw, who was responsible for decisions in proceedings concerning returns of nationalised Warsaw real estate, which was presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start with three quotes. The first is that there is no acceptance of the principles of a democratic rule of law. Convincing you of your own power. No respect for constitutional values. These are quotations from the justification of the sentence which was given by the Polish court in respect of Mr Mariusz Kaminski and Mr Maciej Wąsik. Such actions have been assessed by the court. Then both gentlemen, in order to be able to sit in the PiS government, President Andrzej Duda pardoned. Today we want to ask you two things: the contacts of these gentlemen with Mr. Jakub R., the chief defendant in the so-called trial. Warsaw reprivatisation, but also whether you continue to follow the principles that have already been assessed by the court, whether you continue to use special services to conduct your political interests, or whether you continue to use special services to fight against political opponents. In this room three weeks ago, we also asked Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki about the first publication of the Gazeta Wyborcza, showing the close relationships of Mr Maciej Wąsik, Minister Kaminski, the coordinator of the special services, and Mr Ernest Bejda, Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, with Jakub R. Then Minister Dworczyk answering on behalf of Prime Minister Morawiecki said: Actually there is no problem, everything is perfect. And the ministers did not address very serious charges. I would like to remind you that these allegations are made publicly to persons who supervise Polish special services, and these allegations concern the use of special services for political purposes. These allegations are really about wanting to enter a reprivatisation business to benefit from this for the Law and Justice. There was no reference. What are the ministers afraid of? Are they afraid that Minister Wąsik's relationship with Mr Jakub R. was very, very close? And if they were very close, if it is true that Mr.Wąsik, Mr.Kamiński, helped to find a job for Jakub R., then why help him get this job when PiS was finishing his adventure with the Warsaw government? What was Mr Jakub R. really supposed to supervise in Warsaw government on behalf of PiS? Was he supposed to oversee the reprivatization processes and really the creation of this new law firm, which was supposed to enter into the reprivatization business, or was he supposed to defend the interests of the Silver Company, a company which was founded as a result of the first, great, unclear interest of the 1990s, and connected with the environment of Jarosław Kaczyński and the former Agreement of the Centre? I will remind you, then it was Jarosław Kaczyński and his political environment who in a strange way received rights to four important properties in Warsaw, property worth millions today. PiS is the only party that has real estate in the center of Warsaw and wants to build skyscrapers on these properties. It's a kind of retirement insurance fund for a lot of PiS politicians. Now they're making money there, and then they'll have something to live on. It was a big deal, so far unexplained, and that's what we're gonna be asking. Was Mr. Jakub R.'s interests to be defended, and were Mr. Kaminski and Mr. Wąsik running it? Or was the main goal of collecting hooks for Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and the Platform crew? And as long as you were hoping these hooks would be delivered, Mr. Jakub R. was acting normally. When he said, as it was written in the Wyborcza Gazeta, that there were no such documents, it suddenly turned out that he had been arrested. He's been arrested, but strangely enough, you're so happy to talk about the reprivatization incident -- I'm addressing the PiS -- you're talking about the reprivatization mob where he was in his heart. James R., but you do not have the courage to call on Mr James R. to appear before the review committee. Why? Because you are afraid that Jakub R. will say uncomfortable things, that he will tell you what he was doing in Warsaw City Hall for, what interests he was supposed to take care of, how he was supposed to supervise the reprivatization affair. And the most important charge. In the light of this information, it can be argued that the reprivatisation scandal was largely created by the PiS community, that your ministers, the service coordinators knew about this incident as early as 2006 and did nothing with it because they assumed that they would benefit politically from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a lot of real estate might not be left... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u96	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, what the Civic Platform is doing today, when submitting this request for information on current matters, is reducing the seriousness of the High House. [[Voice from the room: Maybe about facts something.]] The attempt to legitimize the communications led by the arrested former Warsaw City Hall official is unacceptable. We are dealing with writings directed by a person who is accused by the Polish prosecutor's office of accepting giant bribes. Jakub R. is not a random person who has been involved in a scandalous affair. [[Are they reliable at Gawlowski's?]] From the content of the allegations, as far as the allegations are concerned, it is highly likely that Jakub R. was an informed participant in a large-scale corruption operation. The political responsibility for this situation lies with the ruling Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz in Warsaw. But neither she nor her colleagues from the Civic Platform intend to admit mistakes. Instead, they prefer to drag Parliament into the dirty game of a man in custody. I remind you that Jakub R. is not a witness in reprivatization investigations. He's a suspect in serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen! Jakub R. was to accept more than PLN 50 million bribes in 2009. It's a sum that has to be impressive. The evidence in this case is strong enough that Jacob R. is grasping on increasingly violent methods. Over the past months, he has been directing communications to many public institutions in Poland concerning people who have led to the arrest of him and members of his immediate family. Jakub R. as the defendant can accept any line of defense, that's his right As the defendant, he can say anything about this. [[Did he take the pictures himself?]] What's going on with the Civic Platform that's looking for the credibility of its absurd as well? The reprivatization scandal broke out under Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, president of the city. Warsaw, which for many years was deaf... [[But that's a lie.]] ...for the voices of the social side, the residents and the councilmen, including the Councillors of Law and Justice. The procedure, which resulted in the tragedy of thousands of people and cost the Treasury, the city's wealth, was not interested in the ruling capital of the Platform. The Civic Platform did nothing in its time of government to explain the reprivatization affair. We had a festival of deadly investigations, no action by law enforcement. [[The CBA wasn't doing anything, Mr. Kaminski.]] Today, Members of the Civic Platform are trying to convince the public more and more clearly that the reprivatisation scandal is burdening Law and Justice. You know... [[The facts are telling themselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have asked the question, I ask you to listen to the answer. [[We're waiting for an answer.]] When the applicant spoke, no one interfered. Please don't bother me either. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Marshal, thank you very much. I'm continuing my speech. [[We expect an answer.]] Today, these trials, or use of James R.'s statements, have become primitive. I don't know what you're hoping for. It was the actions of your party's politicians that led to a remarkable reprivatization pathology. It's not gonna change your conclusions, your conferences, your press releases from jail. The reprivatisation scandal is the Civic Platform's affair, and it will remain the case, and the state will not change that. Poles need not be persuaded. [[And we'll see about that.]] The reprivatization affair is explained by the determination of the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski and his colleagues. It was because of their actions that James R. heard the charges. It is thanks to their reprivatization actions that the scandal will be settled. The essence of Jakub R's arrest reports is an attempt to paralyze reprivatization investigations. The consent of Jacob R. to make a request is de facto the consent to stop reprivatization investigations. I think that's what James R. is talking about. That's why he got the support of the Civic Platform? Are you so afraid of the truth about this? [[What about ……]] [[You sound like a politician, but letting you go to the election is three votes.]] The enthusiasm you are promoting Jacob R.'s thesis requires you to ask how much more your party has to hide. And maybe a personal remark. Mr Kierwiński spoke here about this absurd allegation that Minister Maciej Wąsik would urge Jacob R. to accept Law and Justice as a political force as a party to participate in illegal reprivatization procedures. This was to happen in 2011 when Mr Wojtunik ruled the CBA when Mr Bondaryk ruled the Home Army when Minister Miller ruled the Home Office. [[Minister, 2006. Read the article.]] I read what Mr. Jakub R. wrote in his writings. It points directly to 2011. Notice how absurd this situation is. Even assuming the worst will of the Ministers of Kaminski and Wąsik - I have no reason to assume it, I say in advance, of course you do not think so - an elementary sense of reason would rule out such actions. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We didn't hear an answer.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? You're welcome, my fellow Member. I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński, Mr Law and Justice has the floor. You're welcome. [[He's gonna be peeking in his zipper. Top anti-Semite.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Fairy tales about the company Silver, fairy tales: Report from Jakub R.'s prison cell, which... [[Facts!]] ...the procurator accuses of accepting a wealth advantage of tens of millions of zlotys, making the already ridiculous Civic Platform ridiculous. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Citizen's Platform, contrary to the facts, tries to shed its responsibility for the reprivatization affair in Warsaw, but as long as the Civic Platform was ruled, the reprivatization mob was stealing the buildings in bulk. People were thrown out on the street, including former Warsaw insurgents, veterans, sick people and elderly people who had to be cared for. You can't not mention the murder of Jolanta Brzeska at this point. After winning by the Law and Justice elections, Mariusz Kaminski and Maciej Wąsik together with the new head of CBA Ernest will lead to decisive actions under which law enforcement authorities could charge and temporarily arrest, among others. James R. with his parents: Alina D. and Wojciech R. At present, over 20 people have been detained in the case of theft of reprivatization. At this point, I'm addressing the Minister with an inquiry. Why was there no temporary arrest of lawyers, pseudobizmen, officials of the Ministry of Justice, as well as officials of the Warsaw City Hall - trusted president Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz? Why didn't the then head of the PO Councillors' Club in Warsaw intervene in the matter of theft reprivatization and later the Member of the Special Services Commission Marcin Kierwiński? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u100	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, at least you could do better than that because you took a card like Nicodemus Dyzma - what I was going to say, I read, thank you. That is your contribution to this very important and interesting debate between Warsaw and Poles. A few smart guys took possession of the property in Warsaw. Indeed, there are many victims, but the case is not resolved, and there is one political environment that benefits from this agreement. If the heart of the mob, you said, the heart of the mob, was in the city hall, it was Jacob R., the defendant you are talking about, and his closest colleagues - Mr. Wąsik and the head of CBA Mr. Bejda. That's what we're talking about. If Jakub R. is a suspect, then why aren't his closest colleagues who put him in town to protect him, among other things. the interests of the Silver Company or the remnants of the [[Applause]] We're talking about this out loud because the testimony you referred to isn't the testimony of the defendant James R., it's his brother, a colleague of the NZS, who's not accused or accused of anything, but they have a lot of credibility. This is also my colleague from the time when Mariusz Kaminski and I broke into the party's buildings so that the PZPR-owska nomenclature would not be used. Today, unfortunately, Mariusz Kaminski is not a good policeman because he allows theft in his own precinct, because he turns a blind eye to it, because the PiS-owska nomenclature has been acquitted, with PC as the source of this process, [[Applause]] Jarosław Kaczyński was the founder of this organization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u102	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta, Law and Justice. [[Your marshal, please...]] Excuse me. Excuse me. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the matter of Jakub R. can be crucial in explaining many topics of the reprivatization affair in Warsaw. Recently, information about the letter to the most important people in the state of Mr. Jakub R., who served as Vice-President of the Office of Real Estate Management in Warsaw, appeared in the media. That's why I have a few questions. It is a pity that Minister Kaminski or Minister Wąsik or Mr Beida did not appear in this Chamber today, but I hope that here the Minister will be able to answer these questions. [[They watch and listen for sure.]] Is it true that Jakub R. was employed in the capital city hall in 2006? Is it true that Minister Wąsik helped him get this position? Is it true that this was supposed to be the person who was supposed to represent the ministers I mentioned from the PiS at the Warsaw City Hall? Did the ministers have any personal relations with Mr. Jakub R. or the parents of Mr. Jakub R.? Is the photo that appears on the Internet really like Mr. Mustache sits with Mr. James R.'s loved ones? Is this photo real? Is it true that Mr. Beida contacted Mr. Jakub R. about the plot on the street. Silver when Mr. Jakub R. was Deputy Chief of BGN? Finally: Is it true that the CBA was to be used to find hooks for Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz along with Jakub R.? I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u104	Now I ask you to ask Mr Kaleta, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u105	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Looking into the eyes of colleagues from the Civic Platform, you may feel that you are intelligent people. And again we are dealing with a farce, because you can get the impression that once again, one of the people who did not necessarily have everything regulated from the legal side - I mean Mr.James R. - you want to make a man who becomes a credible person, you want to take his statements, his media information for something extremely reliable after everything that we already know has happened. So it's an incredibly sad thing that you're doing this again, but it's also a certain method of yours, your correctness, that this is the kind of people you're taking in the defense of. But as far as the functioning or perspective of the Civic Platform on this issue is concerned, as far as I know, what the verification committee has determined, the Internal Security Agency has already taken some action in 2011 in relation to the reprivatisation case. From the parliamentary side of the Internal Security Agency, the Special Services Commission is under supervision and, as I am aware, Mr Marcin Kierwiński was a member of this committee. Mr President, the simple question is, have you done anything about this? Excuse me, maybe the question is to the Minister: Is there any knowledge about this? Did the Member do something about it, or did he act exactly the opposite way? [[And I was the chief of staff?]] I would very much like us to look at this issue too, because I am afraid of continuing this thought, and it is very important to clarify this subject. [[Proceed.]] Is Mr Kierwiński very reliable [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he approach this case as a member of the Special Services Committee? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u106	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the situation of the PiS connection with the sources of the reprivatization scandal in Warsaw, it is like looking for the closest ones... in the immediate surroundings of Jarosław Kaczyński. Please note that articles that indicate very close links with the defendant, Jakub R., both Mariusz Kaminski, Head of Bejda's CBA and Minister Wąsik, have no response. These ministers should be immediately suspended in their activities. There's no way he can coordinate the special forces of a man who has any shadow of suspicion that he might have a connection with the defendants in such a big affair, and it's an incident where the PiS cares so much about explaining. That's one thing. Secondly, my question is: Is there another service, for example, due to suspicions against the former CBA Head of the CBA, the current CBA Head of the other service, e.g. Homeland Security has taken action to explain the role of these gentlemen throughout the reprivatization scandal? And that's one thing. Second thing. The question is, aren't the closest family members of Mr. Wąsik, Mr. Bejda, for example. in some kind of legal firms in Warsaw, which also had a role in various activities concerning, for example, buying claims or actions around Warsaw reprivatization? It is also important that these matters are clarified. I therefore expect the President of the Council of Ministers to take decisions suspending or withdrawing Mr Mariusz Kaminski and the CBA Head of Services of Mr Beida and also Minister Wąsik to clarify the matter. Either you want to explain something, or you want to use the service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To hide it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u108	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that many times in this Chamber we hear answers read by ministers, but the speech by Minister Paweł Srrot was really embarrassing, completely not on the subject. I'm glad you didn't become head of the National Election Office, because if this institution were headed by an official with such dramatically low competences, it would be bad for this institution. But I'm getting to the point. I wish they had the courage to appear in this room, Minister Jak, Minister Kaminski, Minister Wąsik. Their vote here, in this matter we would expect, because they are involved in this matter. It is true that the public is demanding clarification of matters relating to the reprivatisation affair. I have no doubt about that. This applies to any real estate, but also to the circumstances that have been going on for the past few years. Today in this context We know about completely new circumstances. We know who installed Jacob R. in the Warsaw magistrate. I don't think there's any doubt about that. Observing these pictures, you can see the great intimacy of Jacob R.'s family with Maciej Wąsik, with CBA agents. It's all just a fact. Perhaps it is true that the idea was to repeat the maneuver from the 1990s when Warsaw real estate was taken over by Jarosław Kaczyński's environment. Perhaps they had this idea to improve this maneuver and to the nth power so that all the property in Warsaw would be in the hands of the PiS. Is that what this was about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u110	Now I would like to ask the floor of Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u111	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you not think that we are currently dealing with an attempt to reverse the narrative that the Civic Platform is not responsible for the reprivatization affair in Warsaw, not Mrs. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz? Yeah, you're just putting it together... [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is obvious.]] ...that it's law and justice. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Suddenly it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the thief starts screaming, catch the thief. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, I wouldn't put it better, ma'am.]] Minister, is it true that Mrs Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's family was a beneficiary of Warsaw's reprivatization? [[Voice from the room: Who gave it to you?]] Is it true that Mrs. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's family, former vice-president... [[Voice from the room: Whose decision is it?]] ... The Civic Platform, she should never have recovered the tenement at... [[And who gave it to you?]] ... Noakowskie 16, because this tenement... [[Voice from the room: Who broke the law?]] ...was stolen from pre-war owners? Thank you for your attention. [[What year?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u112	I ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u113	Ladies and gentlemen! Sir, you may be the Minister, but you're not the Minister of the Republic. You are the Minister of PiS who came here and tells us... [[What are you saying?]] ...so things that I'm really ashamed to hear that on behalf of... [[What are you saying?]] ...a Polish state can say that. I am a Member of the Sejm, and I came here and I wanted to hear how you will deal with the charges... [[Member of the Platform.]] ...which are formulated by the media - these are pictures of Mr. Wąsik with two people who are in prison, with his mother, with his son - about his relationship with this family, about the fact that they visited each other for Christmas and that they are, I don't know, some other relationship - godparents, godwigs. It's the papers that wrote it. We didn't manipulate these photos. These are facts. And I waited for someone to come and answer these facts, that Mr. Wąsik would come and say, "Yes, I know this man for 20 years, and that's why I should be off this case, Mr. Kaminski will come and say, "Yes, I know him and I should be off this case," and Mr. Beida will come and say, "No, in this case I can't be objective." You chose loyalty to Kaczynski and PiS, and Silver today. You are loyal to the Silver, not loyal to the Polish state. [[Applause]] You have no right after what you have done here, to say that you are conducting some investigation on behalf of the Polish state, because the prosecution, special services in Poland are subject to the interests of PiS, Kaczyński. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'd like to ask in this courtroom...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u114	Mr. President, less emotional... [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] ...and less screaming. Nobody's deaf here. [[Voice from the hall: By God...]] [[Voice from the hall: Please don't involve God in this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u115	Let me speak, don't take my voice away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u116	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u117	Ma'am, I'm defending Poland here. Please don't disturb me. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] I wanted to ask you from Mr. Jake's room. For God's sake, Mr. What's that? Thieves in... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u118	Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. Don't yell. [[You're defending the platforms.]] [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u119	What does that mean? What are you doing? You've made a mistake. [[You're a disgrace.]] You've made a mistake. You even censor Members in this Chamber. It's a disgrace, Your Marshal, what are you doing... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[You're a disgrace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u120	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u121	You're not holding the pressure, Marshal. You're not holding the pressure. [[This is a man's speech to a woman. You think about what you're doing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u122	Mr Kalet! Think about whether you're in the Seym or apologizing at the bar. Calm down. Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Calm down, please. And I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u124	Mr Kalet is in the way. Mr Kalet clearly prevents me from speaking. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Calm down, please. Mr President, I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u126	Mr Kalet is in the way of his ability to... [[You're on the silver side, too, you can see.]] ...and as it may, you can see. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Information about the very serious allegations against the ministers of the Special Service Coordinators has been made available to the public. I have to say, citizens are wiping their eyes out of wonder. [[We'll account for you. You'll see. I'll see you in front of the committee of inquiry.]] How is it possible that people with such serious allegations have functions that have such a serious impact on the security of the state? This is, ladies and gentlemen, unacceptable. Few of this when it comes to explaining these links and these allegations in the High House, the Ministers of Kaminski and Wąsik do not have the courage to face the High Chamber, but hide behind the back of Minister Szrota and pretend that their case does not concern them at all. I ask Mr Morawiecki whether these are the standards he introduced in the Polish state. Is it, Prime Minister, the standard that people who are being charged with such serious charges have some of the most important functions in terms of state security? Prime Minister, you should stand here and explain this situation, because it is unacceptable that, in such a serious area, in such an important state security perspective, very serious functions are of this kind. Minister, are you able to come here and tell the truth? Because what you've said so far, unfortunately, is completely disconnected from reality. Can you come in here and tell us what the truth was, what role ministers play in this whole affair and why they're not here, why you're not saying... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] Isn't that right? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u127	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Duda, the Law and Justice question. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! It was like this. In 1989 there were several offices in the centre of Warsaw, which belonged to the State Treasury, i.e. the sovereign. In 1990, President Jarosław Kaczyński established a press foundation, which took over the land and buildings in 1991. In 1996, Jarosław Kaczyński established a company called Silver. His name is on the notarial act. And this is the first part. [[Applause]] The second part is money. The Silver Company trades an hectare of office space that is rented to this company and in this company are employed by PiS politicians, including ministers with very important functions in government. And who now sits in the authorities of the Silver Company, and who represents the extraordinary meeting of the Silver Associates? Here is a document dated 23 June 2017. Mrs Barbara Skrzypek is here on behalf of the Foundation: number of shares, ladies and gentlemen - 12 million PLN - 5880 shares... [[Voices from the room: Kaczyński's secretary.]] Secretary Jarosław Kaczyński - PLN 12 million! The second person at the assembly - also Barbara Skrzypek's signature: two shares. The third person is Mr. Skrzypek, Mr. Marcin Skrzypek... [[Kibol.]] ...Mrs. Barbara's son, because Mrs. Barbara is signed at this assembly. [[Patriot voice.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is really amazing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u129	Let's get to the point, sir. [[You wouldn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u130	Hence the question: What interests, whose interests was this man to guard? What arrangement is referred to in the article "Electoral Gazeta"? [[To Bury's with the talk. A friend of the coalition boy's.]] Kamiński's mustache was guarding Silver's business. What's the money? 'Cause Silver Company is the biggest asset of all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public in history. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u131	I ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, anti-Semito.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Asking the marshal not to censor Members' statements. I would also like to ask Members to be treated equally in terms of both law and justice and opposition. Because I don't recall a situation in which Marshal Kuchciński would turn off the microphone to President Kaczyński, who was screaming from that speaker... [[Voice from the hall: He yelled.]] ...and insulted all the Members, claiming to be traitorous murders. [[And Mrs. Mazurek turned it off.]] So let's treat each other the same way. The level of emotion, on the other hand, sometimes needs to be reduced a little bit. [[He didn't offend me.]] Well, it's hard to offend you. [[Applause]] Modern... [[You're not gonna make it.]] The modern one is not responsible for the reprivatization affair in Warsaw. President Gronkiewicz-Waltz is not the President of Modernity. Nevertheless, the modern one is too precise to explain the whole reprivatization affair. [[In Kraków, too.]] And from the information that appears, it doesn't seem to be a case. Only the Civic Platform, but also the Law and Justice, because no one other than the gentlemen mentioned here repeatedly put Jacob R. in office at the city office. Given the experience of Mr. Kaminski and Mr. Wąsik in the provocation they applied to self-defense to get her out of the government, we have some doubts as to whether a similar mechanism did not work. On this very operation that wasn't Jakub R. put in the city's office... [[Voice from the hall: Krakow.]] ...to make another provocation to compromise the authorities of Warsaw and the Civic Platform. The question is also whether Mr.Jakub R., given his very close personal and social relations with the ministers, did not feel unpunished by taking such high bribes because he thought that he was friendly with these people that he was safe. [[Voice from the room: Bribes were for the PO, Mr. President.]] The question is also: What happened to the money he took? And, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't an election campaign... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u133	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u134	You're here to answer questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u135	Please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform and Marcin Kierwiński, who was the head of the Civic Platform Councilmen's Club and the grey eminence at the Warsaw City Hall, are responsible for the Warsaw reprivatization. [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] [[Why gray? A colorful eminence.]] Yes. There were people there who made huge fortunes on the city's assets. [[Mr. Mustache's colleagues.]] These people enjoyed the boundless trust of Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who rewarded them, of course, on the basis of: the more tenements you take, the more bonus you will get. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Based on what do you say?]] Mr Kierwiński's request from the Civic Platform is another attempt to blind the Poles. You want to introduce yourselves as victims. But the Poles know it's you, the Civic Platform... [[These are the victims of fate.]] ...you're responsible for reprivatization scams and various other cases. You're so ridiculous, you're pathetic. You're just liars. [[Game in the O.R.]] You lie and mislead the public. Minister, I have a question. In fact, a request for information... [[Voice from the room: To whom?]] ...if Marcin Kierwiński knew or might have known... [[Voice from the room: How about Mr. Marcin?]] ...the establishment of estate curators with the approval of the Warsaw Town Hall for people who were 130 years old. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u137	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Monika Wieliczhowska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we wanted to listen to Prime Minister Morawiecki or perhaps Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydło, what they have to say in this controversial, ever-discovering new cards, no longer a mysterious matter. There were supposed to be explanations about the connections of obscure, controversial, suspects. Did we hear what? The political tirade of the secretary in KPRM by Mr Paweł Srrot - not so long ago, I will remind, as he claimed of himself, the apolitical candidate for head of the State Election Commission. A political tirade with no answer, unfortunately. But you must all know that the heart of the reprivatization system is Jakub R. Really, Minister, aren't you worried about the close knowledge of the chiefs of special services with the heart of the reprivatization agreement? You guys really don't care that this case isn't about the D.A.? [[We didn't go to weddings with him.]] You guys really don't care that there's been no resignation from the task force coordinator? Prime Minister Morawiecki, it is a pity that the resignation is already late today in this Chamber, but it must be immediate, because today the supervising special forces lost primarily moral law to track any crime in Poland. Because the special forces are above all the safety of all of us, the security of the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u139	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka from the Modern Club. There isn't. In that case, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The golden years of reprivatization are the years 2010 and 2014 of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's reign and the Civic Platform. In those years, special forces were ruled by the people of the Civic Platform. I would like to remind you that Mr Marcin Kierwiński was in the Committee on Special Services at the time. [[Game in the O.R.]] And somehow Mr.Marcin Kierwiński didn't talk about the reprivatization affair, although he had good contacts with Mrs. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, because he was also head of the Civic Platform Council Club in the previous term. Or did Mr. Marcin Kierwiński then know the officials responsible for returns? Maybe you knew Mr. Marcin Fairy tale... [[I didn't. I'm sorry.]] ... Jakub R., maybe you knew Adam R. and the other real estate officers? [[I'm sorry, I didn't. I wasn't with them.]] Today, the Civic Platform is trying to turn the cat's tail. He blames it on the officials, on the predecessors, on the dead. Lech Kaczyński, for Law and Justice, for CBA, but they were members of the Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz family, former Vice-President of the Civic Platform, took over a tenement, a Jewish tenement house in Warsaw, to which they never had the right. [[They weren't at the wedding with Moustache.]] Jacob R. was put in prison not for the Civic Platform, but for the Laws and Justice, because somehow you didn't have the courage to do it. [[You tried to shut him up.]] The question is why it happened. That's because under the Civic Platform's rule of reprivatization of special forces, a protective umbrella was spread out. CBA Director in Warsaw made it clear that in Warsaw reprivatization for Platforms will not be moved. [[And what kind of director was that? What?]] Minister! Hence my question is: Is it true that the director of the CBA in Warsaw said in this way: that reprivatization in Warsaw is a great policy and he will not touch it under the rule of the Civic Platform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u141	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Paul Olszewski from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u142	Good morning. Your Marshal, if I may, because the Minister is sitting in such a place that I would like to show you something.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u143	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister, I'm so sorry, I don't remember your name, but it also results from this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u145	Mr Szrot, let me remind you: Paul Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u146	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[And what envoy does he say? Oh, Olszewski.]] Because to tell you the truth, today he should be standing right here... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can you not scream? Would you mind calming down your party buddy?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u148	To tell you the truth, Prime Minister Morawiecki should stand here, because - let us agree - neither Minister Kaminski nor Minister Beida should ever be ministers in life. Abstracting from this, this is a question to the Minister: Do you have any idea if Minister Kaminski ever sought admission to the Special Forces in the early 1990s, and if he tried, why wasn't he admitted? But that's by the way. If you don't have that knowledge, I'd ask for an answer in writing. Much has been mentioned here about various kinds of contacts with Mr Jakub R., also family ones, but there are also very important facts and above all photographs. Maybe I'll show you a picture: Minister Wąsik is quite passionately kissing some other gentleman. I don't know who this gentleman is. The next day, as the dates indicate, you're all hugging each other. I don't know if it's the same man, definitely not the same party. Is it because these types of situations may have caused blackmail from criminal groups, from interviews with other countries, or have security clearances been withdrawn from this gentleman, Mr Wąsik? Because this is extremely important. [[Let me see it again.]] I would like to remind you that Minister Wojtunik, in connection with the fictional accusation that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u149	Mr... Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u150	I'm just finishing up... ...as if he'd leaked classified information...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u151	I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u152	As it turns out now, it didn't happen. I'll just finish up, Marshal. Has the safety clearance been restored to him in this regard? Because as far as I can tell, Minister Wąsik has neither been suspended nor there is no review procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u153	Your time is up, sir. Madam, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Mr Po's motion is a classic attempt to reverse the narrative. Trying to convince citizens that the reprivatization scandal is not the Civic Platform, it's the Law and Justice. [[Voices from the room: Yes, sir.]] You are expecting today, I quote: rapid responses to media reports. And I will ask: Where were you when you were expecting the answers of the residents reprivatized in Warsaw tenement houses? They're being harassed, they're being harassed, they're being thrown out of their apartments. Minister! The golden years of reprivatization in Warsaw are the second term of the term of office of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and the Civic Platform. Most real estate returns occurred just under the Platform's rule. The Civic Platform, which is responsible in Warsaw for the reprivatization affair, is now trying to blame others: officials, the entire political class, their predecessors, the dead. Lech Kaczyński, for Law and Justice, as well as for CBA, which she would like to eliminate. Now he's trying to convince Poles that it was Mariusz Kaminski and Maciej Wąsik who shot the reprivatization scandal. It's classic tail flipping, but society can't fall for it. Minister! I ask you kindly to answer the question: Why did the Internal Security Agency not initiate any action to clarify this matter and stop it in 2009 and 2015 despite the information about the reprivatisation incident? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u155	Thank you. I ask you to ask Arkadius Myrch, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! The case of the Silver Company, as in the lens, shows the whole essence of Law and Justice. It's like in the lens, how big are you hypocrites. It shows your whole face. It is regrettable that you could not see your mines when Mr Brejza exposed financial links - direct financial links - Jarosław Kaczyński and the company Silver. But unfortunately, those are the facts. You want to pretend that this problem doesn't exist. You want to pretend there were no articles in the paper. You want to pretend that the pictures that Mr Olszewski showed and saw all of Poland were not there. You want to pretend there's no connection between Minister Wąsik and Jakub R. You want to pretend that there is no Silver Company, you want to pretend that it did not own the property of Poles, and you want to pretend that it took place for the full acceptance of Jarosław Kaczyński. But unfortunately, these are facts. These are facts and you can't change that. Once again, you show how empty your words are about explaining the matter of reprivatization. In your previous term of office, you did not even want to support the law that regulated this case. In this term of office of the Sejm, you have set up a committee which is a purely political spectacle and does not want to question the most important witnesses in this matter. Neither Minister Wąsik nor Minister Kaminski takes the floor in this matter. They're running away, they're cowards again, and they're scared, just like they ran to court just because their party friend, President Andrzej Duda, pardoned them. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Your time is up. I would like to ask the question of Mr John Kilian, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u158	Thank you very much, Marshal. This reprivatization scandal destroys blood in the veins of Poles, because someone who does not have the right to do so, suddenly, thanks to official decision, receives the rights to great wealth. The interesting thing is that, after these statements before Mr. Patrick's committee, you're somehow silent about this plot of property ownership in the days of the rule of law and justice in the city. The strange thing is that if journalists write about this, if Jakub R. in letters to the Prime Minister Szydło, says Brother Jakub R., who is at large and has no charges, if the documents indicate that the great intimacy was connected by three important ministers: the head of the CBA, the coordinator of the special forces and his deputy to you who is in prison today, there is no response from the government and Mr Patrick Jaki. What's that talking about? Is this a fact that you want to keep quiet by force just because it's behind them that you don't know what the interests of your people are? After all, a normal reaction would be that after the first article that appeared, these three gentlemen of your government would be suspended from their duties. [[Minister Sienkiewicz.]] And my question to the Minister. Minister, if Prime Minister Szydło found out from the newspapers and from James R.'s letters that her ministers could be involved in criminal activity, what did she do? What did you do now, Prime Minister Morawiecki, after the last articles resembling this affair? What action did the Prime Minister take with suspicion [[♪ The bell ♪]] A certified reporter's article that's happening...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u159	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u160	...something wrong with his government. If you don't answer today...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u161	I'd like to ask you a question, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u162	...please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u163	...messenger Alexander Forczynski, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, I would ask you to ask Mr Mark Rząsa from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u164	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When one of the opinion-makers of the nationwide journals writes that in matters of Warsaw reprivatization there are activists of the current opposition, PiS activists and faithful journalists quote specific paragraphs or whole passages with liking. However, when the same newspaper describes the dark connections, even the constellations of leading PiS activists and the management of special forces with those closely involved in the affair, then it is called an angry, brutal, primitive, unparalleled and unjustified attack on the current rulers. Adjectives showing your rage, and especially government media, could be multiplied without a trace. However, if journalists are looking forward to hearing the truth, it is our parliamentary right, not only our duty, but our right, especially our duty, to demand the elementary truth here in this House. Finally, the truth sets it free. We want to hear reliable answers to the simple questions that have already been raised here today, which I will allow me to repeat. What connections do Jacob R. have with the management of the special forces, the Kaminskis, Wąsik and Beda? What kind of things did these gentlemen talk about? What role was Jakub R. supposed to play in Warsaw City Hall? Whether it was influenced informally or used other forms of pressure on its direct activities related to real estate, and especially on real estate at ul. Silver? Will the Poles, Minister, have a fair answer to these questions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u165	Now I ask you to ask Ewa Szymańska from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the tenements are being taken over illegally informed tenants, social organizations, councillors, wrote about it and showed it to the media. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, President of Warsaw, prosecutor's office and special forces were informed. All the decision makers were deaf and blind to voices and reports. I have a question for the applicant. Has any of the Prime Ministers of the PO-PSL government taken any action to deal with the reprivatization mob within their respective powers? Today's screaming won't change anything. It's the Civic Platform that's responsible for theft of reprivatization, for depriving tens of thousands of people of their apartments. Throwing your own responsibility into the Law and Justice won't do you any good. No one's gonna believe you anymore. You don't believe what you're saying. [[A voice from the room: You're in what you wrote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u167	Thank you. Now I ask that Mrs Bożena Kaminska speak from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is true that from a perspective of almost 30 years, the absence of a law on reprivatization in Warsaw is a sin of systemic transformation, but it is not true, Minister, that the Civic Platform, ruling in a coalition with PSL, has done nothing. She did, because it was in 2015, at the request of President Gronkiewicz-Waltz that a small law on reprivatisation was passed. It's not true what you said wasn't done. I am asking you now: When will we receive as an House a bill on reprivatization, prepared on the basis of what is done by the committee led by Minister What? Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister's show is kind of changing direction. In the beginning, it was a beating and an attempt to defame Mrs.Gronkiewicz-Waltz and the entire town hall, but it turns out that it was the Prominents of Law and Justice, connected with the company Silver, as mentioned here, also enriched themselves with the property and reprivatization of Warsaw. Here's what we have in the KRS statement, the im Institute. Lech Kaczyński is represented by Barbara Skrzypek, who is also known to Mrs Barbara of the President's Office, we know why it is such a gray eminence - because she manages nearly 12 million PLN as a shareholder. Another shareholder is Mrs. Barbara Skrzypek herself, who has shares in Silver Company, and another person is Mr. Marcin Skrzypek, who is Mrs. Barbara's son. Here are the connections that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...clearly derived from the KRS documents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u169	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. Please take the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform. There isn't any either. In that case, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. I'd like to ask you a question. There isn't. In that case, another speaker, Mr Richard Wilczyński. Excuse me, Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I am addressing the Prime Minister and the President of the Party with the noisy name Law and Justice, which are not in the Chamber today, and they should be. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to find out how it is that a party that says that the main purpose of its action is to fight corruption, cannot or does not want to make a clear reference to acts committed within its group. How is it that prominent PiS politicians, who claim to be the greatest exterminators of corruption, have a vague, long-standing relationship with Jakub R., accused of corruption, and continue to perform their functions? Isn't the reprivatization scandal a PiS scandal? How does Prime Minister Morawiecki react to this matter of links, relations and actions? Because it seems that he does not react at all as if he lived in another world, in the virtual world of PowerPoint, and not in the reality that we have every day, in which Mr. Jakub R., a friend of ministers, who was responsible in Warsaw for reprivatization, has corruption charges. Will the Prime Minister finally take care of this case? Despite letters written by Mr. James R., despite his brother's testimony, the party authorities of PiS are not interested in the whole matter or are trying to sweep it under the rug. We are therefore asking, during today's information, the Prime Minister and the President to check all the information that we are talking about today, which the press is writing about, and to inform the public about the outcome of their actions. The important questions that we expect to be answered, which have already been repeated many times here, which should be repeated indefinitely until these answers are received, are the following questions: When will Mr. Jakub R. be questioned by the committee of inquiry? Was the Prime Minister informed about this case? What action did the Prime Minister take in connection with the activities described by the press... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] What sort of errands did Mr. Jakub R. want to take care of at the office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u171	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform. Allow me to welcome the students of the Forest School Complex in Rucian-Nida. I hope you'll remember your stay in the Seym very nicely. [[Applause]] Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u172	High Izbo! In public space, photographs have appeared that may indicate the risky behaviour of Minister Maciej Wąsik. Such behaviors give the possibility of blackmailing the person who committed or allowed such behaviour. In particular, this is dangerous when dealing with a public person, not to mention being a deputy coordinator of special services. Is this why the Prime Minister has commissioned or intends to commission an examination procedure confirming the validity of the security clearance, which allows Mr Maciej Wąsik to have access to classified information? I would like to say that as a civil servant in the past, I have been through this procedure twice, I know what it is, and I know what its sensitive places are. I also held responsibility for the protection of classified secrecy. I must say that, in this situation, the Prime Minister has no choice but to order this procedure. Minister! I would like to make you aware that you will have the final vote in a moment. You represent the Prime Minister of the Republic here. I trust that this awareness will sober you up and answer your questions. The main question is: How does the Prime Minister react to the situation? How does he react? [[He's on his way to the chairman's office.]] I would like to mention that all you have to do is answer in Polish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u173	I ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No other party in Poland has grown as many companies, businesses and foundations as Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Now we have Silver and lobbying in Warsaw City Hall by the management of the service. The recently published further appalling information about how the pardoned ministers were supposed to demand protection of the interests of the Silver company, show clearly how the ruling party wants to achieve its goals and do business in real estate. Today's service managers knew exactly what had been happening before on reprivatization, and we are therefore clear about why the reprivatization bill has not been adopted so far. You've been in charge for three years. Mr President, what will the political consequences of the irregularities revealed be? Will there be an investigation? Are we getting further pardons in perspective? Address: Silver 16, pre-war mortgage number: 1147 - for this property the heirs of pre-war owners are seeking. At what stage is the proceedings in the Supreme Administrative Court? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u175	I would like to ask Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A little bit of facts. In 2002, President Lech Kaczyński took over the M.P. Warsaw. As the system of Warsaw changed during that time, the entire staff of officials was rehired without competitions by the newly elected President. Which is why I have a question: Who and when hired Mr. Jacob R. in the real estate office of M.S. Warsaw and who gave him the power of attorney to sign the return decisions? Next question: Who hired in the real estate office m.st. Warsaw's director of Fairytale, and who fired him from not signing his return decisions? Who signed that agreement by name? Next case, next question: Who signed the decision to return the property in which Mrs Brzeska lived, whose causes of death have not been explained until today? I'm asking for an answer in writing, too. But I have another question: When Mr Mariusz Kaminski - according to the latest press releases - and Mr Wąsik will be called to the reprivatization committee to submit appropriate... When will they be interrogated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u177	Thank you. In this we have exhausted the list of Members who have been written down to ask questions. Now please take the floor of the applicant's representative. I understand the voice will be divided. Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome. And let me remind you that you have a total of five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u178	Yes, Your Marshal. Thank you very much. The Minister is surprised, but no wonder he's surprised if he doesn't answer. So I'm gonna ask the questions again. If we're dealing with transformations that affect the early 1990s. - Mr Brejza, Nowogrodzka 84/86, Aleje Jerozolimskie 125/127, Silver 16, Ordona 13, parking; from all these places, these properties are benefited from - this reminds me that there was an RSW Liquidation Commission - Press-Book-Ruch. Her proxy was who? Is it true that Wojciech Rudnicki, father of Jacob R.? Did he then participate in this process so that this union of several companies and companies from which you, Law and Justice, so far benefit? If so, did Mariusz Kaminski ever write a memo about it as a specialist in these services? Marcin Kierwiński is mentioned here by you in every question as the one that was on the Warsaw Council. And was Maciej Wąsik in the second term of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz the councilman of Warsaw, who specialized in these subjects, and wasn't he the head of the club of Law and Justice? What was he doing then? [[Applause]] That's what we're asking. And the most important question is: When will the reprivatization bill be? Because there are two compartments in which it was never adopted. Do you know which ones? In the early 1990s, we had three projects in each term. In 1991, there were three projects, and I was a spokesperson for one of the clubs at the time. One opposition club, originally from the old days, did not support any of these projects. It was the Centre Agreement. But there was also a period when it did not affect, or actually was stopped to process the reprivatization project - in 2005 and 2007. Why? Why did Lech Kaczyński sign the Warsaw Rugi? This is the only time that residents from their rightful homes were raided, whose status was not regulated. This is the execution of Bierut's decree. When you finally stop working for Bierut's decree or something, the muddy water that allows these smart guys not only to draw... [[You've been in charge for eight years, Minister, sir.]] It is so and I regret that our project, which I also brought with Mr Kierwinski, has not been adopted. I'm very sorry, because this was the moment when he had to be praised. But you had to help. Did you support a small reprivatization bill when Prime Minister Kopacz ruled? No. [[Yes, sir.]] Shame on you. If there was a Marshal Brudziński, he would gladly shout: Communists and thieves. I wonder who. [[Applause]] [[Mr Komorowski vetoed this bill, and thanks to President Duda it is signed and entered into force.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u179	Mr Marcin Kierwiński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I expected the Minister to defend his colleagues from the PiS, but to be honest, I didn't expect you guys to be so completely incompetent. In such a situation, when there are very serious allegations of a certain vulnerability of Mr. Wąsik to the influence of foreign services, criminal environments, the Prime Minister of your government does not even demand an explanation from Mr. Wąsik, does not initiate a review procedure, does nothing at all. After all, this really means that ultimately, if the relationship between Mr.Jakub R. and Maciej Wąsik is confirmed, it will also burden the Prime Minister legally. You're extremely incompetent. You can't even ask your own ministers what kind of colleagues they have. And now a few facts. The Minister didn't refer to them, so it's worth talking about them. Mr Maciej Wąsik was a colleague of James R. and the Rudnicki family. You can see that in the pictures you showed Olszewski. The PiS environment, and previously the Centre's Agreement, is the only political formation that has owned Warsaw real estate and the only political formation that has cared very much for Warsaw real estate for 25 years. You didn't vote for a small reprivatization bill, you didn't vote to eliminate scams. That's a fact. You didn't have the guts. You do not want a large reprivatization bill - our project you do not support, and your project, the project of Minister Jaki, you withdraw. And do you realize that the plot on the Silver, on which you want to build a high-rise, is also covered by the decree of Bierut, that there are also claims there? Maybe that's why you don't want a reprivatization bill, because maybe you'd have to return that share. [[Applause]] And then the insurance fund... the calm old age of many law and justice politicians would be uncertain. That's the truth, there are claims. You should know this as a Warsaw Member. And finally to the end... [[The voice from the room:...it's illogical.]] Exactly, we'd have to return something that you've taken over now. Don't you get it? The Silver Company has it, and maybe it would have to be returned. And last but not least, since you are not afraid of anything, since everything is all right, call Mr. Wąsik, Mr. Kaminski, Mr. Jakub R., in front of the review committee. Let people see what Mr. Jakub R. has to say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about a close, very close relationship with the ministers of the PiS government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u181	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. [[There are claims, sir.]] [[Speech outside the microphone]] Gentlemen, may I have your peace of mind? [[Yes, Marshal, we'll be good.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Questions have been asked a lot, I'll try to answer at least most of them. First of all, as regards the question which has been repeated many times here in the statements of various Members, and of Mr Halicki, and of Mr Truskolas, and of many other Members, I would like to stress with full emphasis and conviction that there is no shadow of evidence or evidence concerning the fact that Mr Jakub R., accused in the so-called case. The privatisation scandal was located in the city office of Warsaw by ministers Maciej Wąsik and Mariusz Kaminski. [[Did you report to the D.A.'s office?]] There is no indication that this would be true. [[Was there a corrigendum?]] All of this is based on press materials, which in turn are based on insinuations of a person who is accused of accepting many tens of millions of gold bribes. [[Marcin Rudnicki is not charged.]] But the writings were directed by James R. James R. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He was describing the situation, and that was the basis... As regards further questions, Mr Mosiński asked why there were no arrests during the rule of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice on the Warsaw scandal. [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] Civic and PSL platforms. Well, I can ask the same question and say that I don't know why these arrests didn't happen. Arrests have taken place since 2015. Mr Truskolas and Mr Halicki - I have already actually answered this question. Mr Kaleta asked the question about whether Mr Kierwiński had acted in the Committee on Special Services during the previous term of office of the Polish Parliament. I am unable to answer and this is generally a matter on the side of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, I can say with conviction that I am not aware of the effects of such actions, even if they were to happen. Mr Grupiński asked if the matter had been dealt with by the relevant services. I know, and everyone who read the press releases and the writings that Mr. Jakub R. led, that the case was referred to the prosecutor's office by Mr. Jakub R. Prior to further questions... That's the kind of question I've been asking. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, after receiving all the information that the accused Mr Jakub R. referred to him, asked the Attorney General for information on this matter. Mr Grupiński also asked if family members did not work in law firms buying claims. I do not know any information about this and I take this question as a kind of insinuation. [[And the results?]] Mr Marek Sowa of Modernity was pleased to express his satisfaction because I did not become the head of the National Election Office. I wanted to express in the act of some reciprocity the satisfaction that Modern is in the opposition... [[An apolitical candidate, that's what you said about yourself.]] ...and has no major impact on what is happening in Poland. This really is the reason for my sincere and untraceable satisfaction. [[Your independence is legendary, Minister.]] I have already answered Mr Owl's next question... [[Voice from the room: You confirmed that you were an officer of the PiS simply.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the Minister's political right.]] [[Voice from the room: Scandalous speech.]] Ms Anna Cicholska from Law and Justice asked whether the beneficiaries of the privatisation of one of the Warsaw plots, the plot at ul. Noakowski, former family of Mrs. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz. Here's what I'm going to say: from the media, I know that this is true, Madame. Mr Sławomir Nitras' question. Mr Nitras showed us here... Wait a minute. In fact, I must say that I have already answered Mr Nitras's questions at the outset. Mr Mirosław Sochoń from Modern... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Dry.]] [[You're gonna focus, Minister.]] ... He asked whether such government responses were a standard of law and justice. The standard of law and justice, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in the event of suspicion of great problems, we are acting. The result of this is the committee of inquiry... [[There's no committee of inquiry.]] ...the verification committee, there are numerous arrests and charges brought against specific individuals. [[Maybe there'll be a committee of inquiry. Maybe the minister knows something.]] Mr Brejza asked the question of whose interests Jakub R. was to watch at the city's office. I repeat, he wasn't supposed to be minding any business. He did not represent anyone who was supposed to direct him to this work. There is therefore no shadow of any circumstantial evidence. [[Is there gonna be an investigation into...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u183	Minister, are you done? Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Not yet. Mrs Bernadeta Krynicka asked questions about Mr Kierwiński's knowledge of the establishment of proxy representatives for those over 100 years old. This knowledge is actually shared by all of the media at the moment. These are facts that have been undisputed. [[So you've been breaking the law, too.]] Mr Lisiecki asked a question about what one of the CBA directors said, it seems to be about the reprivatisation of Warsaw that this would be a serious political issue. I, to be honest, don't know it, but it was, as I understand it, published in the media. Mr Olszewski from the Civic Platform showed some photos here and around these photographs he was insinuating... [[Questions. Blackmail vulnerability.]] ...which I would call completely disgusting. I cannot declare anything here for Mr Maciej Wąsik, it is already on the side of protecting his personal goods. There's so much I can say about this. [[Time will tell.]] Mr President, the time to ask questions has passed. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs Borowiak asked why the ABW did not take any action in 2009 and 2015. I'll repeat what I said before. I don't have an answer to that question, I just don't know. I don't want to speculate here, but that also makes me think. Mrs Radziszewska asked about the great intimacy of Jakub R. with Mariusz Kaminski and Maciej Wąsik. This was not a great intimacy, Commissioner. Mr Wąsik has already made a public statement on this matter. There's a loose connection... [[Relaxed relationship.]] ...years ago with Mr. James R.'s brother and his accidental contact with James R. Absolutely not intimacy. Minister Wąsik publicly denied it. [[Relaxed behavior.]] [[You can't defend what you're saying. Conservatism sucks.]] She also asked what the Prime Minister had done after hearing about the reports that Mr Jakub R led from the arrest. I already told you that. On his behalf, you sent an inquiry to the Attorney General, Minister Michał Dworczyk. Mr Marek Rząsa once again asked what relationship Jacob R. had with two ministers from the firm. I have answered these questions many times from this stand. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, as well as many other Members of the Civic Platform, have asked questions about the further fate and deadline of the reprivatisation law. Ladies and gentlemen, all I can say is that we are consistent. She'll be directed. As for the deadline, I can't tell you. There will certainly be no delay beyond the necessary one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, may I have the extension, please? Minister, you're welcome, but move towards the end. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Sure. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak Again, she asked about Jacob R.'s supposedly vague connections with the ministers. I have repeatedly explained that absolute abuse is to talk about close ties or any intimacy between this person who is accused of accepting multimillion-dollar bribes, with Mariusz Kaminski and Maciej Wąsik. You also asked when Mr. Jakub R. would be questioned in front of the committee. That's actually a question for the committee. The government side cannot refer to this, of course. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, I would also like to remind you that he repeated Mr Olszewski's innuendo on the photographs of Minister Maciej Wąsik. [[These aren't insinuations, it happened.]] Mr Wąsik, there is a line of thought behind this, which, in my personal opinion, is offensive to Mr Maciej Wąsik. That's all I can say. The rest is on the Minister's side. [[That's what he insulted himself, that's what happened.]] She continued to ask about the reprivatisation bill. I've already explained it. Mrs Hibner, Mrs Jolanta Hibner, asked who, when and on what basis had he hired people connected with the reprivatization affair at the Warsaw City Office. This is not a question to the government, Madam, it is a question to the local government. Warsaw. Again, the question was when Mr. Mariusz Kaminski would be summoned to the review committee. That, too, is the question that lies outside the government. Mr Andrzej Halicki... [[Present.]] ...in the final statement he drew attention, asked me if I was familiar with the fact - the alleged fact, I am unable to confirm it, in advance I say - that the father of Mr. Jakub R. worked in the liquidation commission of the RSW. [[He was a proxy.]] I don't know about that. These facts aren't familiar to me. On the other hand, I am familiar with the fact that he worked in this committee, for example. Mr. Donald Tusk. [[That's not what I asked.]] From my knowledge and my readings, Mr. Donald Tusk worked on this committee. Was Maciej Wąsik a councilman when issues concerning the so-called. A reprivatization scandal? Yes, he was a councilman, and he was working on it. He made interpellations, inquiries, he was very active when it came to explaining the case. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. As a summary, I'd just like to... [[That didn't go well.]] As a specific summary, I would just like to quote a few facts, a few numbers. In the context of two proceedings involving this case, 24 suspects were charged. These are allegations of fraud, the acceptance of benefits in connection with the exercise of public office, the granting of benefits to a public office person, the excess of powers. A precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest shall be applied to 11 of those persons who have been accused. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Those are the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm asking you to answer my question in writing.]] Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. And to our deliberations, ladies and gentlemen, the guests of Mrs Elżbieta Duda from the district of Cracow are listening. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law of Entrepreneurs (Prints No 2255 and 2267). I ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law of Entrepreneurs, print No 2255. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 20 February 2018 the Senate resolution on the above matter to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation. The Senate passed 12 amendments to this bill. Amendments 1 and 2 harmonise the terminology of the law as regards the name of the register of economic operators of the National Court Register. The Law of Entrepreneurs does not take into account the amendments made to the Act on the National Court Register by the Act of 26 January 2018 amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. The condition for ensuring consistency of the Act on the Law of Entrepreneurs and the Act on the National Court Register after the amendments will be the addition to the article. 24 a new provision concerning the automatic entry of information on the resumption of business activity, and this is covered by Amendment 3. Amendment 4 is editorial and eliminates language error. Another amendment. Given that the modal verb should raise interpretational doubts, following the views of the Constitutional Court and the doctrine in this regard and taking into account the legislative practice, the Senate accepted Amendment 5. In drawing up the amendment, it was also followed by the technique adopted in the Act under consideration to formulate rules on the conduct of bodies. Amendment 6 aims to introduce the possibility of prior call for an individual interpretation to complement the lack of the proposal. A similar institution is provided for in the Tax Order Act. According to Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 In the case of a request for an individual interpretation relating to separate facts or future events, a charge shall be levied on each of the facts or future events presented. Consequently, Article 2 (1) of the basic Regulation provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 10 (2) on the reimbursement of the levy should refer both to the facts and to the future event, and this is covered by Amendment 7. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 15 It should be taken into account that a State-owned organisational unit will also be required to remove an individual interpretation from the BIP in the event of its repeal or annulment. In addition, the terminology of this provision should be correlated with other provisions of the Act on how to name an entity issuing an individual interpretation. In drafting Amendment 8, Article 8 was taken into account. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, where the entity is identified as a competent authority or a competent national organisation body. Amendment 9 harmonises the terminology of the provision. Amendment 10 eliminates language error. Amendment 11 takes into account that the opposition concerns the activities of the control authority and not the control authority itself. Amendment 12 concerns a situation where an indication is made that the results of the evaluations and analyses referred to in Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 shall be included in the impact assessment as a separate part of the justification for the draft regulatory act, provided that the obligation to draw up such an assessment arises from separate provisions. This does not take into account the specificities of the preparation of senate legislative initiatives. The Senate shall attach to the justification of the project an OSR form, drawn up similarly as in the case of government projects. The senate form is similar to the government's. The Senate practice is not sanctioned by any provision. It is solely due to the philosophy of drawing up the results of the ex ante impact assessment adopted in the Senate. Leaving the provisions in the form adopted by the Sejm could mean that the Senate, although the results of the evaluation and analysis indicate in the OSR form, cannot attach it to the justification of the project, as there is no separate provision which imposes an appropriate obligation on the Chamber. In other words, the Senate would be forced to enter to justify what it currently contains in the OSR form. Of course, it is difficult to say that this was in line with the intention of the legislator. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation after considering these amendments at its meeting on 27 February 2018 requests the High Sejm to accept all amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u185	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position on the Senate resolution on the Law of Entrepreneurs, print no 2255. I would like to remind you that the bill is the implementation of the Responsible Development Plan, which announces the adoption of a new legal act, which will be comprehensive and consistent in regulating the general principles of doing business in Poland and which, by creating favourable, transparent and stable conditions for doing business and strengthening the guarantees of freedom and rights of entrepreneurs, will reduce business risks and increase the willingness of entrepreneurs to take up and pursue business activities. The Law on Business Freedom has already been amended 90 times and has become illegible and inconsistent. The right of entrepreneurs is to maintain the primacy over other laws governing economic activity. One of the most important regulations is among others.: introduction of the principle: which is not prohibited by law; the principle of presumption of integrity of the trader; the principle of a friendly interpretation of the rules under which unclear rules will be settled for the benefit of entrepreneurs; the principle of providing information - the public administration should not only quote the rules in force but at least briefly clarify the meaning of those provisions; the appointment of an ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises; the establishment of an ombudsman; the establishment of an ombudsman in the form of non-registered activities; the establishment of an ombudsman does not have to set up a company in the event of a minor activity if the revenues from this activity do not exceed half the minimum wage in any month; the start-up allowance will be exempt from social security contributions for the first 6 months of the business; the possibility of dealing with certain simple official matters by telephone, e-mail or other means of communication; the maintenance of an individual interpretation institution; the obligation to reduce administrative obligations and information obligations. The Law of Entrepreneurs was designed with the assumption that it is intended to constitute not only the main core of the legal framework for business activities, but also a reference point for interpretation and application of related legal acts. The aim is to simplify and shorten the new legislation governing the right of entrepreneurs so that it contains only general, key provisions for them. The law is very transparent and readable, easy to analyse by every entrepreneur, even the one who starts an adventure with business and does not have a staff of lawyers. The Senate has made 12 amendments. Among the amendments proposed by the Senate is among others. an amendment aimed at introducing the possibility of an earlier request for an individual interpretation to remedy the deficiencies in the application. However, the vast majority of amendments are mainly legal and legislative in nature. All the amendments received a positive opinion from the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. The Law and Justice Club supports the amendments adopted by the Senate [[♪ The bell ♪]] and therefore, on behalf of the law and justice club, I request that they be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u187	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Law of Entrepreneurs Act. I would like to say first of all that I do not share my belief - I did not share and still do not share - that this law contains only such regulations as are really necessary for the institutional strengthening of the guarantee of economic freedom and which will give businesses credible and authoritative information about their red tape rights, because contrary to these declarations - and the Senate's resolution is to some extent proof of this - this law is not a clear, transparent and compact act. These amendments, as we have heard from the rapporteur, are editorial and cosmetic. In part, they result from the poorest preparation of this law. In fact, there are two amendments: an amendment concerning the automatic entry of information on the resumption of activities and an amendment supplementing the request for an individual interpretation. These amendments deserve support. The Civic Platform Club, even though it was against the entire bill, given that these amendments aim to improve and improve its readability, will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u189	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Kukiz club15. There isn't. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As regards the committee's report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law of Entrepreneurs, the Modern Club, whose position I have the honour to present, will be in favour of the amendments. This is a number of minor drafting amendments, but there is also an important amendment - this is a modern amendment - which aims to ensure that in the case of an individual interpretation request which does not meet the requirements set out in paragraph 1. 1, 3, 4 or 6, call on the entrepreneur to complete the deficiencies within 7 days. We have requested 14 days, but 7 days are also satisfying, so that we are glad that this amendment has been taken into account. Amendment 8 concerns the obligation to publish immediately in the Public Information Bulletin. We also believe that these interpretations should be available to a wider range of entrepreneurs as soon as possible, so that we also believe that this amendment is correct. Therefore, the club Modern will be in favour of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u191	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Cyranski, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate introduced 12 amendments in print no. 2255 to the draft Business Law Act. Most of them are more precise and harmonise the terminology contained in the Act. In my opinion, two of them give this law an important tone of thought, such a pro-entrepreneurial one. The first one is minor amendment 5 to the article. 27, which replaces the words "should act by the word "act" and refers to a situation in which the authorities deal with matters relating to the pursuit of business activities. Someone might be tempted to say that this is a minor change, but it guarantees and forces the proper approach of officials on cases by removing the possibility of omission associated with the word "should." The next amendment is Amendment 6, which in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 obliges the office to call on the trader to remedy the deficiencies in individual interpretation. Such a solution seems logical and rightly taken into account by the Senate. Finally, I would like to point out that the introduction of these laws is a very good signal for entrepreneurs, who can finally see the specific willingness of the state apparatus to change the attitude of authorities towards entrepreneurs. It is a good thing that entrepreneurs will no longer be constantly suspected of being combinators and that they want to deceive the state. A large majority of them want to conduct their business honestly. They just need the right conditions for it. I look forward to further such laws, which will stimulate the development of entrepreneurship in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u193	Thank you. That's where we ran out of statements on behalf of clubs and circles. There are no Members to vote. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this resolution of the Senate in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Enterprises (prints No 2256 and 2268). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to inform you that yesterday the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation was debating. We received four amendments from the Senate. The Senate proposed in amendments 1 and 2 that the need to harmonise the terminology of the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs and the Law of Entrepreneurs should be governed. As regards Amendment 3, the Senate concluded that both in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) as well as Article 1. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 of the Act seeks to grant the Ombudsman the right to apply to the Supreme Court with a proposal to resolve the divergence of interpretation of the law and, therefore, one of these provisions is redundant and should be eliminated from the law. And in Amendment No 4 the Senate took the view that it is appropriate to clarify the provisions of the Act by indicating that the seat of the office of the Ombudsman and of the field assistants should be specified in the statutes. At yesterday's meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, the committee welcomed all four amendments and asked the High Sejm to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u195	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the Senate resolution on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, prints No 2256 and 2268. I would just like to remind you that this proposal, as justified, concerns the comprehensive regulation of the new Ombudsman's new institution for small and medium-sized enterprises and is part of the so-called. a business constitution package aimed at implementing the constitutional principle of freedom of business and other constitutional principles important for entrepreneurs, as well as introducing changes in Polish economic reality. At yesterday's meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, the committee welcomed the adoption of the four amendments proposed by the Senate. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u197	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna Nemś from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, print no. 2256. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 which came from the Senate are legislative and precise. We have absolutely no comment on them. In Amendment 4. The Senate indicated that it was in the Statute that the seat of the Ombudsman's office and of the field agents' offices should be specified, following the principle of effective performance of tasks and the need for concentration. In fact, the direction is good. Our concerns have already been passed on in our amendments. We have comments on the competences and the way in which this law is implemented. These amendments will be supported by the Platforms Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz15. I can't see. In that case, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from Modern. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Club voted against this law as the only one of the whole business package because we felt that the appointment of an ombudsman by the Prime Minister was inappropriate, because it should be an entirely independent institution, should not be connected with the administration, because it could come to a situation where the ombudsman would not know on which side of the dispute he might face. As far as these amendments are concerned, it seems appropriate to consider whether the Ombudsman's seat should be different from that of Warsaw, because there is an appeal, however, that those institutions which do not have to be in Warsaw may be located elsewhere. I therefore hope that this amendment of the Senate will give some consideration to the drafting of the Statute. In general, although we were against this law of course, these amendments correct it slightly, therefore the Modern Club will vote in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u201	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Łopata, a club of PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. High Izbo! This law is set up by an institution to support and monitor the implementation of the legislation that has just been adopted, for example in this package. The Ombudsman is to work towards the following principles: freedom of business, confidence in public authority, impartiality and equal treatment, fair competition and legitimate business interests. The targets are very noble. We cross our fingers so that it is the right person and the right institution - still located in the right place, as today, just now, informs the fellow Member. At the same time, we regret that this institution could have worked, been created at least 1.5 years ago, but the project submitted by the club of the Polish People's Party, by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, was rejected at first reading by Law and Justice. Back to the amendments: as the rapporteur put it, the Senate proposed four amendments. The Commission adopted them unanimously. I declare on behalf of the club similar behaviour during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u203	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski a question. There isn't. In that case, the discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this resolution of the Senate in the voting block. The Health Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an e-prescription. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur (prints No 2257 and 2269). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the report of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation on the Senate Resolution on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, print No 2257. On 20 February, the Marshal sent the Senate's resolution to the Extraordinary Commission. This one gathered yesterday and decided on the amendments tabled by the Senate, which are such amendments: Amendment No 1 in order to avoid a legal gap expresses in one provision a standard whereby an entrepreneur can make a notification to social and health insurance both himself and employees; Amendment No 2 corrects the erroneous reference that has been made in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 of the Act; Amendment No 3 accepts that the application for entry in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity is incorrect if it concerns non-economic activities; Amendment No 4 corrects the erroneous reference in Article. 18 laws. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt all four amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u205	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u206	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I will present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission in print No 2269 and the Senate resolution on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, print No 2257. Let me remind you that the law is part of the business constitution package, which is part of the plan for the responsible development of the Ministry of Development of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for a law is based on the Law of Entrepreneurs - another law that we have just dealt with, and which in its legislation proposes to separate this parcel in a separate law. The need to improve the functioning of the Central Register and Information on Business Activity and a single point of contact arises from the Directive, so-called. a service directive. It is about adapting to new legal institutions, such as: the possibility for an economic operator who is a natural person to provide procura. It is therefore necessary to define the new role of the Central Register and Information on Business Activity - not only as a business register but also as a management instrument granted by the trader. The amendments tabled by the Senate are as correct as possible and necessary in this law. The whole act is very friendly to entrepreneurs, it is deregulational and will allow Polish companies to function even better. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I propose that these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, print No 2257. The amendments that have been tabled by the Senate - 2nd, 3rd and 4th - correct the wrong reference and this is, of course, in line with the letter of law. Amendment 1 removes the legal gap resulting from provisions which enter into a separate period, i.e. from 1 January 2019, and concern the notification to the social and health insurance of the trader and his employees. Of course, it is legitimate. So that the Civic Platform Club will be in favour of these amendments, it will vote positively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz, 15, has the floor now. I can't see. Then please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Club will vote in favour of these amendments because they actually correct certain shortcomings in the law, and we have no doubt that this will improve the content of this law. Therefore, the club Modern will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u211	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Łopat, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u212	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur - this is a fairly long title. In the framework of this law, business registers will be kept, information will be made available on entrepreneurs and other entities, on the extent and date of changes in entries and on the established proxy or proxy. The Senate has proposed, as has been said here, four amendments, four amendments. They are needed, justified. This, even if the first one, mentioned here, complements this, that is to say, eliminates the legal gap and allows the application to social security of both employees and, as it were, the employer himself. Thus, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments by sharing the Senate's proposals and the committee's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u213	Thank you, sir. None of the Members have signed up to ask questions. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Enterprises and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland (Prints No 2258 and 2270). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u214	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation. I would like to inform you that yesterday the committee discussed the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Businesses and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland, print no 2258. The two amendments proposed by the Senate were considered during the proceedings. The first amendment refers to ensuring that members of the families of foreign persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland can take up and pursue their business activities on the basis of a temporary residence permit on the basis of the conditions under which foreign persons undertake and carry out such activities. The Senate pointed out that this solution currently operates under the Freedom of Business Act and it is appropriate to maintain this solution. In addition, the Senate also proposed the necessary amendment because there was a wrong reference in Article. 13, and I would like to say that the committee unanimously accepted these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u215	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that Print Act 2258 lays down rules for foreign persons to undertake and pursue their business activities. Thanks to this law, there is an opportunity to eliminate doubts regarding the conditions under which foreign companies can engage in business activity in Poland. I would like to remind you that this is a law which is part of a package of constitutions for entrepreneurs and is one of the essential elements of regulation and embellishment of rules which have so far been scattered in other laws. We hope that this will increase the activity of foreigners living in Poland or motivate foreign investors to invest in our country. This law brings together the provisions implementing the Services Directive and the Law on freedom of business concerning foreign persons, and the Senate amendments clarify this law, for which, of course, we thank the Senate warmly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u217	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I present an opinion on the Senate resolution on the Law on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Businesses and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland, print no 2258. Ladies and gentlemen! This law was a government project which was part of the package of regulations under the collective name of the business constitution. The Act contains issues currently regulated in the legal state in two legal acts: in the Law on the Freedom of Business, as well as in the Act on the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Civic Platform expressed its opinion on the whole draft legislation on business rights during the process of dealing with these laws in the Sejm. This opinion was negative for the whole package because the vast majority of these rules are already present in the current legal order, including. in the laws, in force provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Civil Code, Criminal Law, Tax Law, Special Laws or Supreme Court case law. However, with regard to the amendments that the Senate has adopted in the law, the Civic Platform Club proposes to accept these amendments, as these are only two clarification amendments, which are therefore improving this law, which was adopted anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u219	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Mr Kukiz, will now speak15. There isn't. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Regarding the position of the Modern Club regarding the report of the Senate's committee on the Law on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Enterprises and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland, print No 2258, the Modern Club is in favour of the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u221	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr John Łopata, PSL - ED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Enterprises and Other Foreign Persons in Trade in the Republic of Poland. This law is a set of regulations governing this space, this area of economic activity. The Senate has proposed - and the committee has divided this position - two amendments, as has already been said. In the first amendment, probably the most important, the Senate drew attention, proposed to ensure that members of families of foreign persons residing on the territory of the Republic of Poland can undertake and pursue business activity on the basis of a temporary residence permit. Such a solution is already regulated under the existing law on freedom of business. We share that view. The committee also shared this view, so we will vote in favour of these amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u223	Thank you very much. The list of Members speaking as part of the statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles has been exhausted. No one asked me to ask you a question. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law Rules introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activities (prints No 2259 and 2271). I would like to ask Mr Michael Cieślak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation at yesterday's meeting adopted the amendments of the Senate, which were presented on 15 February during the procedure for implementing the Business Law Law and other business laws. The Senate put forward 31 amendments for its opinion. Amendments have been blocked in their area of impact on the draft law. These were editorial amendments, eliminating language errors, harmonising terminology. The Commission has accepted the amendments tabled by the Senate in the proposed blocks and recommends that the High House adopt the amendments tabled by the Senate at third reading. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u225	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Cieślak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present an opinion on this law on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The Act introducing the Law on Business Law and other business laws will replace the Act of 2 July 2004 on the freedom of business with a view to rebuilding and reforming the law concerning the institutional environment of entrepreneurs and their business activities. The Law of 2 July 2004 on the freedom of economic activity has been in force since that year and as a result of numerous amendments, the changes have become opaque and do not pursue its primary objective, namely to be a set of principles of economic law in a clear, uniform, recognizable system. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce solutions that will give a new impetus to the development of Polish entrepreneurship. At the same time, the new solutions proposed in the Business Law Act require changes in many specific laws, which is why it is proposed to develop regulations implementing the Business Law Act. The Act is procedated together with the Law of Entrepreneurs, because the introductory provisions are secondary to the provisions of the draft Law of Entrepreneurs and do not, in principle, contain spontaneous solutions of a substantive nature. Today, this law brings together scattered regulations contained in more than 180 laws governing economic space in Poland. In addition to making a number of amendments to the specific laws related to the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, non-registered activities, relief to start, with the amendment or transfer of regulations concerning the regulated activity, the act has a very positive effect on the economic space in which Polish entrepreneurs are to move today. It is long-awaited, has very good opinions from the point of view of entrepreneurs and institutions that bring together entrepreneurs. I therefore recommend that the above provisions be adopted on behalf of the club. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u227	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the committee's report on the adoption of the Senate's Act of Law introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs. I can say that these 31 amendments that the Senate has tabled are, in fact, not the best review of the quality of this legislation, because these amendments of the Senate are the evident removal of errors that have appeared in this bill, errors in references, editorial errors, legislative errors. And thanks to these amendments, this bill will certainly gain, although I will repeat once again, that is not what entrepreneurs really expected. Polish entrepreneurs expect simple, clear, transparent, compact rules in place of the very complex and complex rules that you are proposing to them. But, as I have said before, because these amendments are aimed at removing manifest errors, we will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u229	Thank you. Mr Jacob Kulesha Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the report of the Senate's committee on the Act of Law introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activity, print No 2259. The amendments are in principle legislative and editorial and are also forced by the Senate amendments to the other laws of the package. Therefore, the club Modern will vote in favour of these amendments. As far as the whole is concerned, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your determination, because I know that the work on this set of laws has begun in the previous coalition. This is one of the few cases where there was a certain continuity in the process and in the preparation of these laws. Not all of them meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, because not all of the requests made during the consultation have been taken into account. This is a step forward. Here I have already pointed out that we were sceptical about the appointment of an entrepreneur's attorney in such a formula. Generally speaking, given that this is something of a simplification, simplification and consolidation of a number of laws, I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation. And I hope that these regulations will in some sense be implemented quickly and improve the situation of Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u231	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act of Laws introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activity. High Seym! The Senate has proposed 31 amendments to this law, as has been said many times here. I think we should say 31 amendments. Although it is also true that some amendments, some amendments are a consequence of the previous four in this block of laws that we have discussed, we have just discussed. A number of amendments are such that their objective is to eliminate interpretation doubts. Therefore, the committee at yesterday's meeting adopted the proposed amendments. I will also recommend to the club the same attitude, voting in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u233	Thank you very much. That concludes our speeches on behalf of the clubs and the circles. There are no Members to ask questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law of the Penal Code (Prints No 2260 and 2279). I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to submit a report to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an acceleration and not everyone is on time, so I'm managing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 27 hours 13 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 20 of the agenda. I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, print No 2260. Committees meeting on 27 February they considered the Senate resolution and five amendments tabled by the Senate. The joint committees recommend that all five amendments be adopted. During the committee's deliberations, however, there were serious doubts about the 2nd amendment to the Rule. 1 point (2) (a) f - paragraph 2. 4a - in which the Senate proposed to replace the word "Rzeczka" with the words "Rzeczka" may refer to an optional criminal measure in the form of a prohibition on the pursuit of the profession, conduct of business and activities related to the use of animals or the impact on animals if the perpetrator of the offence involving the killing or abuse of an animal has acted with particular cruelty. At the committee meeting, the greatest doubts were about the effectiveness of the optional penalty. The question was whether to give judges the choice whether to impose an additional penalty or not would be to fully implement the principle that punishment should be a deterrent to people who lack moral principles and who are afraid of high and inevitable punishment. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the mandatory penalty gives a better chance of eliminating inhumane attitudes towards animals more effectively. Despite so much doubt, the committee recommended that amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u235	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agata Borowiec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Code of Penalty is a response to the unchanging situation of the protection of animal rights for several years, while increasing the number of animal offences, including with particular cruelty. Let me remind you that data from the Ministry of Justice shows that the number of crimes against animals has increased for more than 15 years. The number of offences committed in a qualified form is increasing every year, i.e. those with particular cruelty. Currently, every year there is a valid conviction of about 600 perpetrators who kill animals, abuse them, and persons who violate the existing rules on the slaughter of animals. It is therefore necessary to amend as soon as possible to tighten the penalties for animal harm offences and to extend the responsibilities of perpetrators of such acts. The project is designed to address existing problems primarily by increasing the penalties for killing animals and bullying animals. The fact that the limits of criminal liability for the killing of animals and the abuse of animals differ significantly from the level of penalties that may be imposed on the perpetrators of animal thefts - e.g. Up to 5 years of imprisonment or hunting for game in a protective period - also punishment up to 5 years. We agree with four of the five amendments tabled by the Senate, although we have a different view on the Senate proposal for Amendment 2. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, this amendment, which consists in replacing the word "orch" with the words "can" or "replace" a mandatory criminal measure into an optional one, will not allow full implementation of the principle, which is to be a deterrent to people who lack moral principles and who fear only high and inevitable punishment. The continuous increase in such crimes, including the increase in the number of acts committed with particular cruelty, is an undeniable basis for concluding that the current criminal rules do not fulfil their duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u237	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to refer to the submitted Senate amendments to the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. The submitted government project, which we adopted with great hope and thanks to the first Member of the Republic of Poland, Jarosław Kaczyński, who mobilized his club to accept the amendments of the Civic Platform, was a really good project. Unfortunately, we were surprised to learn that the PiS club in the Senate in Amendment 2 had changed the mandatory validity of the judgments of the courts to optionality. I am very pleased that the Ministry is not happy with this change either. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club very much asks the PiS Club to reflect and want to maintain the proposed change as proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will vote against Amendment 2 and recommend that the other amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u239	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15, will now speak. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u240	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 26 January on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, introduced five amendments. This amendment has aroused a lot of controversy since it came into being at all, because in its history it has undergone some wrong modifications, to the extent that Minister Whatever had to explain from the intervention of the Minister of Agriculture in his project, but maybe we should not dig into it anymore. This time, there was an idea that certainly wouldn't do any good to protect animals. This is about Amendment 2. The court will be able to rule against the profession of contact with animals in the event of particularly cruel abuse of them, but it will not have to. In the version adopted by the Sejm, this prohibition was mandatory and there is no reason to change it. The reason for this amendment is not convincing. The penalty for a qualifying crime, which is particularly cruel, should be sufficiently higher as it is socially more dangerous. The rule should remain in its former form, i.e. with a mandatory ban, which gives the possibility to isolate the crime in terms of how the perpetrator acted, that is, crimes with particular cruelty. It also gives a stronger assurance that sadists will not work with animals after the sentence. As you all know, the big problem that the environment has been paying attention to every day dealing with animal problems is redemption in such cases, that is, in animal abuse cases. Similarly, it may be with this recipe, which is in the 2nd amendment. The law will not protect animals with which people previously convicted of extremely cruel treatment will still be able to work. We therefore believe that this amendment is missing the purpose of the provision and is completely unnecessary. The rest of the amendments clarify the provisions in quite a proper way. The majority of the senators of the committee supported Amendment 4, which adds a new paragraph stating that, in the event of a conviction for an offence involving non-compliance with the prohibition of any animal or specific category of animal referred to in the Law of 6 June 1997, the court shall rule on the animal's forfeiture. Amendment 5 provides that the new provisions enabling the ban on the holding of animals and the taking up of certain activities will apply both to bans imposed and to those which will be decided upon after the entry into force of the novel. These are good solutions. As modern we will, of course, be against the 2nd amendment, which is clearly harmful. It'll go on for years if we leave her. For all the rest [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u241	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No 2260. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the purpose and noble principles of the bill are not controversial. This expression was given by the majority of the people sitting in this House at the stage of the procedure for this law in the Sejm. Those who abuse animals not only deserve punishment, but should also have an obligation to make amends to animal organisations such as shelters Or associations that take care of animals. It is good that the state will be more active than ever to protect the welfare of animals, and this certainly deserves to be emphasised. However, in a broader sense, it is not possible to abstract ourselves from the situation of people. There is no evidence in the draft legislation that protects citizens from false or hasty accusations. We have already highlighted this at the stage of work in the House. There have also been and there have been doubts, regardless of the amendments made by the Senate, whether the high claims will become an incentive to bring unfounded accusations, to report to or maintain the animals. Nowadays, representatives of NGOs are already entering the premises often without police and veterinarians. However, this does not change the fact that the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats will support this law as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u243	Thank you. Mr Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak from the Free and Solidarni circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. Today, there is widespread animal abuse, which is why they are extremely happy with the government's actions, which result in a proposal to amend the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. The regulations proposed in the revision aim to impose more severe penalties for the killing of animals. The senators have tabled five amendments to the bill. They considered that the possibility to rule on the perpetrator of an offence involving the killing or abuse of an animal should include the prohibition of any occupation, any activity and any activities related to the use or impact of the animals. The perpetrators will feel the inevitability of punishment for their actions. I cannot agree with the second amendment introduced by the senators. A criminal measure against persons who have killed or abused an animal with particular cruelty should be mandatory. The amendment proposed by the Senate is not justified. A criminal measure should also be a tool to deter potential animal abusers. We cannot talk here about the optional assessment of the acts committed if they have been carried out with particular cruelty. I believe that all perpetrators of such an act should be punished severely. I hope that today's solutions to increasing the level of penalties are the first step that the government is taking towards animal protection. Around Free and Solidarni will not support the second amendment proposed by the Senate. The other amendments proposed by the Senate are worthy of support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u245	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec, the Law and Justice question. The time for questioning is one minute, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For more than 15 years, the number of crimes against animals has been increasing, while there is no increase in the legal protection of animals, including an increase in the number of crimes committed with particular cruelty. Minister, while appreciating the great role that you played in this bill, I would like to ask: Would it not be possible, however, to maintain Amendment 2, this form of obligation rather than optionality, to increase the effectiveness of the fight against non-humane crimes committed on animals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u247	Thank you. I ask you to ask Arthur Dunin, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a quick question. Are you, as Deputy Minister of Justice, in favour of the second amendment voted by the Senate? I would like to make it clear what position the Ministry has on this amendment, so that the parliamentarians of the PiS can hear it clearly. [[But we're against this amendment.]] This is the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Madam, on the committee voted in favour of this amendment, an amendment that is breaking this law. I'd like the Minister to make that very clear, articulate. Thank you very much. [[We have a different position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u249	Thank you. I ask Minister Patrick Jaki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, to answer these questions. [[The minister has changed from that conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u250	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I answer the question of the honourable Member and the honourable Member. The government's position is that we propose not to accept this amendment to reject it. [[Applause]] We believe that betting on a hard solution, i.e. showing that the court is ruling, not giving it the option of an optional solution, is more effective and is also a better message to have a sound for the whole environment, a sound coming from this law. This is the answer to the first part of your question. Namely, we want a sound from the High House, a signal that there is no tolerance for people who abuse animals, and we will always enforce it hard as a country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u251	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Health Committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescription (prints 2264 and 2315). I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescription, print No 2264. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 21 February 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading. The Health Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 28 February 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The proposal concerns the amendment of eight laws, including the Pharmaceutical Law, and aims to allow the issue of a prescription after examining the patient through electronic systems or communication systems, which will affect the development of telemedicine, the change in the way in which electronic medical records are signed, the amendment of the rules governing the issue, implementation and control of prescriptions, including those issued in electronic form, concerns the reporting of pharmacies transferred to the National Health Fund and modifies certain provisions concerning the issue of requirements for medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices by medical operators. On behalf of the Health Committee, I ask the High Sejm to adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u253	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice an opinion on the Law on amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of the prescription, Parliamentary Printing No. 2264. We are all witnesses of this and in some way victims: computerization in health care is slow, slow. Many times impressive, all-embracing and widely-designed projects do not usually go beyond the project area. Implementation is always a huge problem. They stop at projects that are often out of date at the time of their completion, because it took so long to prepare projects that they would need to be updated due to technical progress, which is huge in computer science. So it is good that we are moving from discussion to implementation, and this is not the implementation that covers the whole system, but some part of it, because it is usually more effective and allows us to gain important experiences that can then be implemented in the implementation of other projects. In general, the implementation of information systems, which include population, population, is always burdened with some risk and error, because then not single officials, but the entire population becomes a reviewer of what has been realized. The changes instantly include a large population group, and there are various shortcomings that are related to such a project. Therefore, it is very good that the programme will be implemented at the beginning as piloting. For this pilot to succeed, it is necessary to pass this law, because the act and pilotage contain a number of solutions that are innovative and are certainly expected. In particular, they will be friendly to older people, because the possibility of issuing a prescription in the system, i.e. through telemedicine, i.e. when the doctor does not have direct contact with the patient, only through electronic systems, it is indeed a significant leap. I think that this is even the greatest innovation in this implementation if it succeeds in this possibility, because it will undoubtedly relieve patients from often unnecessary visits to health care facilities and relieve doctors from this sometimes unnecessary obligation only to prescribe a prescription and prolong the functioning of the medicines used so far. So that this solution, however there are traps here, because in turn older people may have problems with handling, i.e. using an electronic system, but that is why piloting is needed to test all solutions. So that it will be undoubtedly progress, that this possibility will arise. Remote advice will be able to function not only in connection with this prescription, it will be able to be used more widely, but in the case of prescription events there is a lot of it, a whole mass. The project also uses the ZUS certificate, which is already implemented, to a large extent implemented. Doctors have a certificate to issue L4, so at this stage it seems appropriate that we are already using a functioning system, we are not introducing another certification system. Perhaps there will be time for this depending on the results of this piloting. The bill also includes an attempt to further seal the drug distribution system, which unfortunately still comes out. If it's clogged somewhere, there's gonna be a new rift coming up, and the reverse imports are being made. This will address issues related to the need for medicines. I think it's either a seal or at least a seal this time, if that's the solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. My parliamentary club, of course, recommends the adoption of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u255	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform club with regard to the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescription, print no. 2264. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The overall assessment of this project, the objectives it sets for itself, are absolutely familiar to us and are accepted by us. Besides, we believe that it is also expected not only by the patient environment, but also by the medical environment. This is a process that is ongoing, the individual elements of which are gradually implemented, and we have no doubt about it. As my previous speaker said, this project introduces some quite important changes, among others. rules governing the issue of the so-called 'issue'. the requirements of medicinal products. This is aimed at sealing the distribution system and limiting illegal export of drugs from Poland. This is one of the following elements, which will finally lead to illegal drug exports being blocked, so it is absolutely necessary to support such changes. The project also brings a number of different provisions from regulations to the law. There is also a new provision, which concerns cross-border prescriptions, as well as prescriptions that do not have a marketing authorisation in Poland. There are also changes in this project that concern the doctor's profession law. An important issue, namely the replacement of personal examination, which will enable prescription in the telemedical system. This is the absolute future. As for this too, there is no doubt that without regulations changing the e-prescription, the development of telemedicine can be quite complicated. These are all the changes that we absolutely accept. On the other hand, we do not agree on the procedure for introducing this law, as regards the so-called. the fast legislative path, because the project, although it is a government project, was not consulted by the environments that should consult. E.g. the opinion and position of the Chief Medical Chamber are lacking. After all, this project is aimed primarily at the medical environment, including the medical environment. So we believe that such a practice, such a fast legislative path does not serve anybody, and it certainly should not be the law that introduces such changes, all the more so that this law is not a life-saving law and we can take time calmly to fight it. Similarly, the whole legislative process also in committee, today the first reading took place, now it is second, tomorrow it will be third, so the mode is really very fast. Hence our concern, why this and such a path is introduced by the law. Another thing that I also want to stress here, and which also concerns us, is whether this IT system is so prepared that we can be tempted to fly. These questions were asked. I understand, Minister, that this will be an element of piloting, but we will also look very closely at it, and I think that you, too, because we all want the effect that this project is about to achieve, to be as good as possible, especially for patients. So, in summary, the Civic Platform will support this project, except that we disagree and ask that the way in which such projects are implemented in the future, however, be in line with legislative law and comply with all applicable rules which should also apply to this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a Senior Convention in a moment, and it has been convened, so unfortunately, I have to announce a recess by the hour. 2.30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 01 hours 14 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before we begin, allow me to welcome the students of the Primary School of the Resurrection Sisters to the gallery. The mother of Zofia Szulc from Czestochowa. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay in the Sejm, enjoying the plenary room, but also from the Sejm's clowns. Hello, good morning. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] Can I do it now? Oh, great. Finally, it is the 21st century, and this is a step - here I am talking about the draft law on e-recepts - in the right direction. We all live in a digital age and this really makes life easier in different areas. Unfortunately, the health system has not yet gone as the challenges of the times require. For many years, there has been talk of computerization of the system, and really nothing concrete except e-releases has been done. It was spent on computerization of considerable amounts of money and nothing happened. And now we have a good project. This is piloting, but it is, as I said before, a step in the right direction, because no one will lose, and we will all gain - first of all, us patients, because it is for us this bill. We patients are the subject of the whole system, not the subject. Thanks to such an amendment - this is piloting, although I would prefer it to happen faster for the whole of Poland than in 2020, but it is a step in the right direction - we are gaining, and above all, patients who are suffering from chronic diseases. I mean me, too. I'm forced to go to the doctor after the prescriptions continue. Yes. I'm not telling you what I'm saying, I'm just a practical patient, I know how this is done, I have to go to a doctor every 2 months for insulin, because there's no other way. [[Voice from the room: every three.]] And now I have the benefit of saving my time, doctor's time, not making queues. All benefits, no weaknesses. A little of this, you have to take into account that with e-prescriptions there are other benefits for the patient, for example, that if there is no one drug in a particular pharmacy, I can, without losing any relief, go to the other pharmacy. It's not right now. If there's no cure, I can't use it, then I'm buying these drugs as full pay. Besides, with the e-reception, we eliminate a very important thing - we eliminate the danger of a mistake in the pharmacy, the release of not such a drug. This is another very good thing. E-prescriptions is a small step towards complete informationization of the health care system. I would like to wish for and for all patients who look at the system prospectively, that eventually it will be created in Poland, as in the developed countries medically integrated medical information system. This is a challenge of the times and this will facilitate the ministry's work, doctors and, of course, make life easier for the sick. I talked to my first contact doctor, a doctor from POZ, who tells me that yes, she has her own system, but through this system she can communicate with two or three pharmacies, because the rest isn't hooked up. But the integrated system will allow it to work. E-prescriptions are the second step after e-releases. E-releases are growing step by step. In my opinion, the e-prescription, although there are two pilot cities so far, will function successfully throughout Poland in 2020 and everyone, especially those who are open to computerization, and it is difficult in the 21st century not to be open to it, will accept it with really great positiveness. If in other areas we have computerization, we can apply for ID without moving from home, we need - not that we can - as small companies send uniform control files, then what hinders this, what is to hinder the development of computerization in the health care system? That's why I don't agree with the accusation that it's too soon. I'll say, the platoon state, it's too slow, because it's your term of office that should have happened by now. We've lost many years of tapping in place, and right now, with this project, we're finally moving from this place. I'm really taking this project with a big positive. The Kukiz Club15 will certainly support this kind of solution, because we are in favour of computerization of the health care system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk will perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u260	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law introducing e-prescriptions is undoubtedly necessary, because they can largely solve one of the most pressing problems in the Polish health service, the problem of long queues. E-prescriptions are one of the components of the Electronic Collection Platform, Analysis and Sharing of Digital Resources about Medical Events P1. They are designed to facilitate and speed up existing legal procedures, with significant benefits and to address the risks facing the patient. I am referring to eliminating the problem of illegible prescriptions and the associated risk of giving the wrong drug. Regularly ill people will not have to go on a regular basis to the doctor to receive prescriptions, which will reduce the length of queues and save time for them and doctors. Possibility to make a prescription in several pharmacies will save patients on medication. The dosage information will be clear and legible and medical staff will be able to access the history of the disease and the prescriptions issued. The introduction of e-recipes is also a benefit for the health care system and its employees. E-prescription is a saving of money and time that the doctor will be able to devote to the next patient. Improving the readability and reliability of the prescription and simplifying the implementation process will make it easier for pharmacists to work. Computerisation of the issue and implementation of prescriptions will reduce the circulation of medicines and allow for better control of the marketing of refunded medicines. According to the Act, a teleinformation system is to be created made available free of charge by the Social Insurance Institution, which will enable confirmation of the integrity of the data needed to sign electronic sick leave. The emergence of another modern system is considered unnecessary. There is already ePUAP, which with the appropriate support could include electronic medical records. State information is absolutely necessary and desirable, but we consider the creation of cyber-bureaucratism to be a mistake that we can avoid at this stage. Further proposals of the Act are related to the issue, implementation and control of prescriptions and the reporting of pharmacies to the National Health Fund. While it is not our concern to issue a prescription via teleinformation systems or communication systems after examining the patient, the above-mentioned reporting of pharmacies to the National Health Fund already does. The government's activity in this field is interesting. According to the parliamentary club, the modern record constitutes another attack on the apothecary sector in Poland after the pharmaceutical law adopted on 7 April 2017. The introduction of pharmacies reporting to the Minister of Health does not seem necessary or significant for the health system in Poland. They should therefore be regarded as a non-targeted procedure, constituting an excess of the powers of the rulers. At the end of the day, our disapproval is once again aroused by the way we proceed over the bill. The change, which is a natural direction, required by the European Union, which we have known for a long time about the need for implementation, is being put in motion, bypassing the broad public consultation that could bring a huge positive load of substance. But I understand that the Minister also treats this pilot programme as a public consultation. Modern views the need to inform you as one of the key challenges for our country. Given the direction of the changes being made and the spirit of the law and its facilities for citizens, the Modern will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u261	Thank you, sir. I would ask Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-recipes, print no. 2264. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a change ahead of us, which nowadays is a necessity. They are also a continuation of the policy of computerization of health services from previous years. All products related to computerization, e.g. Your e-account, your e-prescription, your e-release, your e-direction, your e-order is a requirement of time. It's also a lot of ease. The draft amendment of some laws on the introduction of e-prescriptions is a decisive facilitation both for doctors and, above all, for patients. It's just that these prescriptions can't be lost or accidentally destroyed by patients. There will also be no problems with illegible prescriptions or lack of signature or stamp. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that an e-recipe will be issued in the form of a barcode, to be sent to the patient's mobile phone or e-mail or printed in the doctor's office. In the pharmacy, the bar code will allow you to read the doctor's instructions. In addition, if there are several medications on the front desk, you will be able to easily buy some of the medications in one pharmacy and others in another, if you do not have all the medicines prescribed for you in one pharmacy. In addition, you will be able to check the history of the patient's disease online. This option for seniors will also be available to eligible family members. This will allow you to see if the person has bought the medication. If not, such a prescription may be implemented if necessary. A very ambitious assumption is that the project will start in pharmacies from the beginning of next year. We're in. Of course, continuous access to the online database is a prerequisite. It seems necessary to ensure continuous access to electricity and the Internet so that no matter what the pharmacy's malfunctions, patients can sell drugs and buy them out. Doctors have until 2020. This is important, because another issue is to prepare medical staff for proper and efficient e-recipes, so that it actually would be easier, not more difficult. All the offices will have to be equipped with a computer, and today there are computers in the offices. According to recent estimates, about 160 million prescriptions are issued per year for the refunded drugs themselves. This shows the scale of the challenge. The IT system must secure a huge database and give access to it in every facility in the country. We also need to ensure that we do not steal patient data from online hackers. A similar system operates in Denmark. It shows that you can. It remains to be hoped that there will be no unexpected complications at the implementation stage. It is a system for years, so it should be well prepared. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Polish People's Party sent a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki a few weeks ago calling for a discussion on a comprehensive reform of health services. We still believe that if we want to reform health care, all political formations must sign under such a project so that after the parties have taken power, the reform will not be withdrawn. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the patient's well-being will be placed above current political competitions. We put on the table a health pact prepared by us as our proposals in a constructive discussion. That's what we're hoping for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u263	And on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescriptions. The changes made to the Pharmaceutical Law are aimed at, among others, at: enabling the development of telemedicine in our country. The possibility of issuing a prescription after consultation on the patient via ICT or communication systems will have a direct impact on this. The revised Pharmaceutical Law also requires alignment with European Union legislation in the area of cross-border prescriptions. The amendment of the Act provides for the modification of certain provisions concerning the need for medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices by medical operators. The required requirements are to be included, among others. information on the next number of needs issued by the medical operator concerned, details of the medical operator, the manager and the doctor who signed the request. In addition, each requirement has information relating to the number of patients who will use medicinal products. Medicines will also be required to make a statement that the assortment included in the need has been used to provide the patient with health care. It is clear that such ordering of rules in this area is necessary and beneficial. The amendments also concern the provisions governing the issuing, implementation and control of prescriptions and e-recepts, as well as the preparation by the pharmacy of reports submitted to the National Health Fund. To issue e-prescriptions to patients continuing treatment for chronic diseases will directly affect the limitation of doctor's visits only in order to obtain another prescription. I believe that this will have to be translated into a reduction in the lines in the clinics. In addition, the amended legislation introduces an obligation for pharmacies to keep records of pharmaceutical prescriptions and requirements. No such obligation has been imposed so far. I consider the obligation to keep records to be reasonable and necessary. Medical operators will be required to provide the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection with an overview of their records and copies of their requirements. This will eliminate possible errors, irregularities or cases of dishonesty. The proposed changes also concern how to sign the electronic medical records introduced by the possibility of using the confirmation of origin and the integrity of data from the electronic system made available free of charge by the Social Security Office. This tool will be used to sign electronic sick leave. The change has a significant impact on the transition to an electronic way of keeping all medical records. During the committee meeting, applicants were accused of not having a public consultation. It must be said here that the Ministry of Health intends to carry out piloting, which is an in-depth version of such public consultations. On the basis of piloting, you will be able to see what works and how it works and make appropriate adjustments to the implementation of the system. I believe that the action taken by the Ministry of Health is good and will show the shortcomings of the system and thus allow them to be removed before introducing e-prescriptions across the country. It is clear that such a solution will avoid many errors during the implementation phase of the whole system. The rules introduced are a good step towards creating a friendly treatment environment for patients, and at the same time they are part of the ongoing IT process of the health sector, which will improve and monitor healthcare services. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u265	Thank you, Member. Twelve people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Anybody else want to join this list? I can't see, so I'm shutting her down. [[More, more...]] You're welcome to sign up. There are 13 people in this regard. I'm closing the list. You are beginning Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club, with time to ask a question of 1.5 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we know, work has been going on for many years on the introduction of e-recepts. They have been operating in Estonia for 7 years, but also in other countries such as Iceland, Greece, Norway, Sweden, Italy, etc. I am very pleased, Minister, that the work on the introduction of e-prescriptions has accelerated. Thank you very much. We'll finally be in the 21st century. According to the report "E-health through the eyes of Poles" about 75% people would like to receive an electronic prescription or exemption. Minister, I have a question. Can the transition to electronic prescriptions hinder access to medicines for older people? And one more question. For visually impaired and visually impaired, it is desirable that photocodes may be prescribed to identify these prescriptions and the information contained therein. Will the provisions of this law relating to the content of prescriptions prevent such solutions from being used? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u267	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On some sides of the room there were strange statements that the opposition wanted to delay the entry into force of this law. There was no such voice at the committee meeting, I don't recall it. It was only a matter of the fact that this law, which is very important and necessary, expected by society and by health professionals, should be examined in accordance with all legislative procedures. But never mind. Minister! We now have two seats in the country where the piloting will be conducted. The Minister said at the committee meeting that there would probably be more of these places over time. Please tell me what is the expansion scheme so that the piloting is conducted throughout the country, and what will be the conditions for qualification for this piloting. Since we are going to do such a big thing and there is determination on the part of the ministry, we obviously want to work together in this regard, not disturb it. Please also answer me the question of what happens if piloting, let's say, runs properly... Many practicing doctors already work in the computer system today, write exemptions, print prescriptions, so the transition to an e-prescription will not be a drama for them, but unfortunately we also have doctors who will probably not be able to adapt to this by 2020. Do we leave the paper version until, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be necessary from a logistical point of view in terms of the performance of health professionals, or will there be a deadline within which we only go to e-prescriptions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u269	Thank you. Are you Beata Małecka-Libera? There isn't. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone is very happy that we will have an e-prescription that we are in the 21st century, that it is time for the e-prescription to function also in Poland. I am also glad that we are in the 21st century, but at this age there will also be older people and older doctors. In connection with this law in 2025, will older doctors who have the right to issue a paper prescription for themselves, for their immediate family, i.e. pro family, pro authors, lose this possibility? It's not like they're gonna have access to the electronics system. So how are they gonna be able to exercise this authority today that they're writing a paper prescription? Let's give these older people a chance, the more we live longer and longer. Doctors too, at least some of them live quite long, although some die young - on duty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u271	Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. It has already sounded once in the Committee on Health, but I would like to make sure with the Minister, because there are also nurses in the groups that are now entitled to prescribe medicines, to a certain extent, apart from the rims and doctors. There's no place in this bill for them. Or are you predicting this in the near future to be revised? That's it. For, as I say, something new. Or maybe you have an orientation as to whether the Ministry has an orientation, how many nurses have actually exercised this right so far, and what number of nurses write these prescriptions? That's one thing. And the other thing. Minister, it is known that this bill is also intended to seal the drug market. This is probably one of those major, very important, important ideas here. It's about the drugs being exported. I would like to ask when you expect to see some of the first effects of this law, so that we and the public can be informed about the benefits, of course beyond the benefits for patients, except for the benefits for the elderly, etc., which are also the financial benefits for the whole society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the bill that is being processed today is really expected, because who of us has not witnessed such a scene here, that an elderly person comes to the pharmacy, sick and leaves the window because the prescription is wrongly written or the pharmacist has doubts about what is on this desk. That's what I'm asking you. After the introduction of this law, of course, after a period of piloting, because for us, the main purpose of this law is to fully function, is there a chance that such situations will not happen? Or just, among other things. Is that what this bill is about? Second thing. Here, there have already been opinions that the e-prescription works in many countries. I would like to ask what is the degree of satisfaction in those countries where the e-prescription works. Is it true that this level of satisfaction with the functioning of e-recipes is very high? And one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. I think piloting is an excellent form of analysis of weaknesses, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a certain discussion and consultation of these very provisions. Thank you very much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Then it is Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Poles are surprised by information about statutory changes in health care. Many of these changes, e.g. concerning the network of hospitals, caused practically deterioration of the situation, access to doctors, especially specialists, the extension of queues. Many concerns and uncertainties, especially among the elderly, are also raised by e-prescription. On their behalf, I would like to ask the Minister why the government does not carry out information activities on e-prescriptions on detailed solutions, deadlines for introduction. How's this e-prescription gonna work? Are such information activities being prepared? I think that they are necessary, because a few older people have asked me what it will be like, because they are afraid of it, without the knowledge of IT, how it could work. I therefore appeal: let us respect Poles and inform them about new solutions that raise so much doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u277	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescriptions sets out a very desirable, long-awaited modern direction in health protection. Among the various solutions, it introduces the possibility of signing e-prescriptions and the possibility of issuing prescriptions through telemedical consultations. My first question concerns the assessment of the Minister as to the possibilities of our IT systems, technical parameters and the availability of the Internet for computers to assimilate the program in a relatively short time. Second question: Can the positive financial impact of the introduction of a law related to a much greater possibility of monitoring and controlling the system be estimated? The third question is more specific: Do the proposed solutions provide for the patient's physical access to the content of the prescribed prescription, or only when reading the code in the pharmacy? Finally, what many Members also ask: Will it be a system that is not complicated enough to be dealt with by people who most often use these prescriptions, and thus older people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u279	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The European Parliament dealt with e-recipes 10 years ago, in 2008. It's been a long time. It's only now that our first changes are being made. I would like to ask if the system will be designed in such a way that a medical professional dealing with a condition other than this patient's chronic illness has access to this e-prescription, even if it is to check whether the medicines he is going to administer will not interact in any way with the medicines that the patient is taking on a regular basis. It's about not having access to this information doesn't make the patient's health worse. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u281	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about this pilot program. Indeed, at the committee meeting there were two cities and dozens of participants in this programme. I'm afraid, which is why I'm asking you that this is a little too few units in the pilot program. What direction is the Ministry in the case of these pilots? However, is there any timetable that will increase the number of units, the number of voivodships or the number of cities in Poland so that this piloting is more objective and more reliable? The more units in this piloting, as I said, the greater this credibility of e-recept will be. Does the Ministry have any idea of increasing those amounts in the pilot program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u283	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a very, very, very good project, but it is unfortunately piloting, i.e. Unfortunately also steths, because it really needs to be tested first in practice. It's a good thing we're doing this. I would like to ask how long this piloting will last, how the programme will be evaluated, whether we will receive any conclusions from this and whether new players will be able to join it during this piloting. And I'd like to ask you again what the cost of introducing an e-prescription, this piloting will be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u285	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u286	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! My predecessor asked about the cost of piloting, and I will ask about the overall cost of the project. How do you estimate this on a national scale? After the piloting period this will be extended to the whole of Poland. So how much is this going to cost and do you expect European Union support for this kind of programme? How will operators introduce e-prescriptions, this new formula for issuing prescriptions in general in the field of healthcare? What programmes on the basis of support for actors, communication, communication will you prepare and will you guarantee money? And the second point is to prepare patients to use e-recepts. How do you predict when and how you will try to tell Poles about this by properly promoting this solution, training and information available to patients? We wish Poles to be as healthy as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask a final question on this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! E-prescription will bring many benefits for patients, medical staff and pharmacists - among others. The problem of impureness of prescriptions will disappear thanks to the use of IT tools. Unfortunately, there are two sides to the coin. Many pharmacies maintain a low state of storage by ordering up-to-date medications that patients with written paper prescriptions expect. This situation will change because the patient will be able to buy any medicine in a different pharmacy thanks to the fact that each medicine will be written on a different e-reception. But that's the problem of pharmacies and their marketing strategy. The introduction of e-recipes can actually change the functioning of the pharmaceutical market in Poland. I wanted to ask you about the situation of substitutes for e-recepting. Will there be any deeper changes in this area, or will e-prescriptions make it easier for patients to buy cheaper medicines? Are their fears unwarranted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u289	Thank you very much. I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński for an answer to this question and earlier questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u290	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Let me answer the questions one at a time. I will start with Mrs Krynicka's question about the elderly and their access to electronic prescriptions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, electronic prescriptions in our intention are primarily to facilitate the availability of medicines for the elderly. Electronic recipes, first of all, will themselves contain solutions that will enable them to be used in almost the same way as the current paper recipes, i.e. every patient on request - and here we do not hide that we think primarily of older people who do not necessarily want to benefit from all these innovations - will be able to get the so-called. information printout. It will contain information that is currently printed on the reception desk, i.e. the name of the medicinal product and the dosage. It is also important that in the case of an information printout as opposed to a prescription, we do not leave this printout to the pharmacist in the pharmacy, we only take it with us because the prescription is in the central secure system, and the printout contains all the information and the patient has access to it all the time, even when he gets home. In addition, as regards accessibility for older people, we provide the possibility of authorising a loved one, a family member, to access the patient's online account. That's another thing we do when we turn to the elderly. This way, each of us will be able to check whether this older person, or whether a family member has purchased the prescribed medication, without leaving the house, simply by means of a computer, because the power of attorney to the patient's online account will entitle him to do so. It seems that all the things that we have prepared here in this project are also prepared for older people and there is no exclusion here at any point, because, as you have pointed out many times, it is the elderly who are the most frequent clients of the health system and, above all, we are preparing these solutions for them. As regards the issue of access for visually impaired and visually impaired persons, as such doubts arose at the stage of the permanent committee's agreement, the provisions which we introduce, which also concern what a prescription should look like, do not in any way exclude the inclusion of the so-called "prescription." photocode, which could enable a blind or visually impaired person, simply by scanning, to read by such a special tool what is also contained on this desk. There's no contraindications here. The recipes - I'll just remind you - there can be no advertising or marketing messages, but this is for understandable reasons. The prescription is supposed to be a medical document, not a medium for someone to sell their products. Then there was Mrs Gądek's question about the conditions for extending pilotage. These are questions that later repeated, so let me answer them here at this point. We are as open as possible to extend this piloting at a time when we will be sure, first of all, that these functionalities, which are fundamental, which are the key ones that patients, healthcare professionals and pharmacists most care about, are working properly not to expand this piloting at a time when we would not be 100% confident because, as you have said here, piloting is such an extended form of consultation of this solution, consultation, verification of technical solutions with the environment, with society. On the other hand, when we see positive effects, we are as open as possible to expand this piloting. It is difficult for me to talk about specific dates here, because they depend on the outcome of this piloting, but I am convinced that if, after starting piloting - it will be with patients on 1 May - we will have good results, we will be able to tell about it after about 2 and 3 months, then after the holidays we will be able to think calmly about joining further providers, but also other pharmacies, because the condition for the success of piloting is in some sense such geographical closure in some area, i.e. that there would be enough pharmacies in the vicinity of the healthcare providers so that they could be safely realized electronic prescription. As for the next question - will we leave paper - then, ladies and gentlemen, here we will proceed slowly, constantly running a promotional campaign, but definitely. That is, in 2020 we want to achieve a full electronic prescription cycle, because if we leave exceptions, it will suddenly turn out that 90% will remain with these exceptions and will simply not want to use these new systems, and from our point of view, from the point of view of the system for which all Poles, all taxpayers, pay for it, is crucial to have it fully electronic. That is why we are moving on with the pilot almost two years before the entry into force of this obligation to eliminate all problems along the way. I would like to draw attention to the two-step implementation of this solution: first, since the end of this year, there is an obligation in all pharmacies, and then, a year later, there is an obligation for all medicinal products. Regarding Mr Hok's question about the pro prescription familia, pro auctore, this is where we will keep the paper form until the end of 2025, also because of the doubts that you shared with us. We want older doctors who prescribe these products for themselves and for their loved ones to continue to be able to do so. As for Mrs Gelert's question about prescriptions issued by nurses, we now have several hundred nurses in Poland who issue these prescriptions. We believe that it is very good to increase the prestige of the nurse's profession and to give nurses as many opportunities as possible to carry out such activities as the issue of prescriptions, and here we are as open as possible. Therefore, after today's committee meeting, I have commissioned work to examine whether it is possible to introduce such powers also for nurses issuing prescriptions. As regards the question of when the first effects of this anti-export activity will be seen, the Act shall enter into force within 7 days of the announcement. This is an extremely short term, but this is what we do because of, among other things. for these anti-export issues. I think that at the end of 2018, when, I hope, a revised law on monitoring road freight transport will be in force, we will be able to show very measurable effects of the fight against the export mafia. This is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and, you can say without a little bit, the entire government. In this respect, we will show a lot of action. Unfortunately, this system currently functions so that e.g. If we manage to close the pharmacy channel, then the wholesalers appear when we are more effective at the wholesalers, then the medicinal agents appear. That's why it's a question of need. However, we act, we are active, we see the problem and we intend to solve it as soon as possible. As for Mrs April's question about the degree of satisfaction with the implemented solutions: electronic prescription in the world, we have already done a review of the results of international research. I wanted to say that these results are extremely promising. I mean, among pharmacists, among doctors, among patients this level of satisfaction exceeds 90% , and in some cases approaching 100%. As far as the operation of the electronic service provided by the administration is concerned, these are excellent results, and this is also a benchmark for us, on which we want to operate and which we want to achieve. As regards Mrs Czernow's question on information measures for the elderly, as I have already said, this information action will be carried out. One of the ways in which these information activities are carried out is by piloting. On the occasion of this piloting we try to talk more and more about this electronic reception, introduce patients into the fact that such functionality will be. Many patients already know that recipes are being issued through a computer, but now we are dealing with an absurd process, namely that a prescription is issued on a computer and then printed and stamped on it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't the 21st century, this is a solution that doesn't help anyone and that we just want to get away from as soon as possible. We are also extremely hoping that these facilities that are already putting it on computers will be very quickly ready to not wait for the end of 2019, only as soon as all the drugstores are available, enter with electronic prescriptions. As regards Mr Szulowski's questions about the possibilities of IT systems for handling electronic prescriptions, we are in constant contact with cabinet software manufacturers because they are our partners in this implementation. The Ministry of Health, the Health Information Systems Centre, is preparing a central system that is adapted for communication with office systems. Our intention is to provide a solution that will ensure safety above all, but also significant efficiency - on this side we are safe, while on the side of cabinet software manufacturers we leave issues related to how it will work in cooperation with the user. Manufacturers of office and pharmacy software are also our partners in the pilotage and we talk to them as part of this pilotage and integrate this software. This is also what this first phase of piloting, which is currently underway to clarify certain issues, has already eliminated certain problems, so that when they interact with the patient, everything will be under control. As far as the positive financial impact of anti-export measures is concerned, as I have already said, we want to present information on this at the end of this year, when we can already see the full impact of both this regulation and the regulation resulting from the Road Freight Transport Act. With regard to Mrs Tomaszewska's question as to whether a specialist doctor will have access to other prescriptions, this is an extremely important issue and only shows what range of possibilities we have for introducing these prescriptions in electronic form. They will allow for the simple provision of information to other doctors about what questions or preparations have been prescribed by other doctors. This can actually contribute to improving the quality of treatment to avoid certain adverse effects. Because at a time when this system will be fully implemented, we are open to respect the patient's rights, because it is he who is the most important here, with the possibility of his consent, because this consent must be given every time... I would also like us not to fall into a trap of such an excessive, too fast digitization of certain spheres of our lives. We want, with the consent of the patient, to allow such access, which will also automatically tell the doctor what undesirable interactions may occur and have a negative medical effect. As regards Mr Lubczyk's question as to whether we can expand piloting, as I said, we will want to widen it and follow the small steps. We start here, but probably in the next stages, if we extend this pilotage, we will also try to strike in particular in the village a little bit larger than Siedlce and Skierniewice, in which we are now conducting this pilotage. As for Mrs Michalek's questions, how long will the piloting continue, as I say, the first proposals will be in the middle of a holiday, possibly after a holiday, in September. Then this piloting will continue in some form until the very implementation of this in all pharmacies at the end of 2019, because at the moment when we know that it already works, that it has passed the fire test, t we will be able to go further and further cities, the next actors will join this piloting. Evaluation criteria are primarily the satisfaction of users, both patients, doctors and pharmacists. Secondly, technical issues, i.e. response times, performance tests, questions as to whether this system can actually handle the number of queries that will be necessary. The third issue, which has been raised many times, is how in practice it has entered into the functioning of medicinal entities, i.e. whether in fact in the organisation of medicinal entities, just as they are in Poland today, the preparation is at an appropriate level to ensure that only electronic prescriptions are in force throughout Poland. As far as the cost of piloting is concerned, it is difficult for me to point out the exact cost of piloting, because this is all part of the P1 project, which has an electronic prescription as one of the products. The cost of the whole P1 project, which Mrs Skowrońska asked about, is, as you probably know, about 700 million PLN, while the cost of the second phase, which started thanks to certain measures and talks with the European Commission carried out by Minister Streżyńska, by Minister Radziwiłł in 2016 and which will end in 2020, will be around. PLN 170 million. Within this framework, the Polish state, Polish patients will receive electronic prescriptions, electronic referrals, first of all electronic medical records signed in electronic form, and the fourth component, also extremely important, although not visible to participants of the system, i.e. the data warehouse, which will contain information that will allow us to analyse data concerning the functioning of the health system. I went fluently by linking these issues to Mrs Skowronska's questions. Will there be support for healthcare providers for computerisation? As part of the project We do not anticipate this, but we want to check on this project, on the occasion of the study of readiness, what is the degree of adaptation of medicinal and pharmaceutical operators to the requirements of the electronic prescription. We want to conduct continuous monitoring of how this is developing, and if it turns out that there is a necessary intervention, then we will consider what instruments the Polish government has at its disposal, in particular with the use of EU funds, we will introduce. When it comes to preparing patients, this is the question that I really should answer first, because we do it for patients and they are the most important in this project. We are planning an information and promotional campaign that will reach patients who will actually present them with how the electronic prescription works, as well as show them all the functionalities, advantages, safety issues. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I have such an ambition, perhaps it is excessive, and I would like us as administrations to start implementing solutions that are not like a VCR and do not require instructions for use. Ladies and gentlemen, has any of you ever been instructed on how to use a prescription? Certainly not, because it was intuitive, everyone knew it. I'd like the electronic prescription to work in exactly the same intuitive and simple way. As for the last question, asked by Mrs Navel, will there be substitutes for medicines that will be available on an electronic prescription, then yes, of course they will be. All functionalities that currently have paper recipes, in particular those concerning the possibility of using replacements, will also be available for electronic prescription. Thank you very much, Your Marshal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u291	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 4:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 29 hours 16 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for a supplementary election of a member of the Court of State. The opinion is in print No 2303. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. This is print number 2313. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. There's a formal conclusion. Anna Maria Siarkowska from the Law and Justice Club is making a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago at the hospital Paweł Kulczak, a man who was brutally attacked and stabbed on the day of the Smolensk monthly, died on February 10th, in Kraków Przedmieście. It was a person who died only because she dared to draw attention to a man who spoke in an indisputable way about the current power, who was possessed by crazy political hatred. Paul - the engineer, the husband, the father of three children, the youngest of his child is 18 months old - left his family, who today was left alone with this tragedy. I ask the High House to condemn on the one hand any political hatred, and on the other hand, let us celebrate its sacrifice, another sacrifice, a minute of silence. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] May he rest in eternal peace. [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u293	I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the measures that the Government intends to take to avoid paralysis in the health care sector, in connection with the reduction of working time announced by residents up to 48 hours per week from January 2018 - notified by the Poselski Modernosna Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on current Polish-Ukrainian relations and policy of the Polish Government towards Ukraine in the context of recent decisions and statements of representatives of the Polish Government - reported by the Civic Platform club, [[I can't hear anything.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on recent appointments to the positions of President of the General Courts in Poland by the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor General and persons subordinate to him - notified by the Civic Platform club, [[Mr. Marshal, you can't be heard in the O.R.]] - Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. police intervention using the so-called "police intervention." tasers, investigations into the death of Igor Stachowiak and the absence of police reports on this case - reported by the Modern Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We'll proceed to the vote... [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] We are voting on the proposal for information on the measures the government intends to take in order to avoid paralysis in health care. Who of you is in favour of the proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 193 voted against - 234, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on current Polish-Ukrainian relations. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 195 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion.]] I will accept the formal proposals after the votes. [[But how did the votes go?]] [[You're breaking the rules.]] We proceed with the vote on the request for information on recent appointments to the positions of the Presidents of the General Courts. Who of you is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point covering the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on this matter, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 176 voted against 253 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on police intervention using the so-called. Tasers. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 256, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u294	Dear Marshal, This proposal is so pointless that I wanted to draw attention to this formal request that you do not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. First of all, we have an opinion from the Sejm Analysis Office that you cannot accept a formal application at the time when it is submitted, i.e. before the vote. We had such a drastic situation here that you gave the floor to one of the messengers, and you did not give me the floor. [[Applause]] [[Scandal.]] The Lord forgets that Art. 173 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm require you to present the matter to the House before the vote. We are dealing with such a situation that we have been trying to persuade you for 4 months to debate Polish-Ukrainian relations, and the state has been destroying these relations for these 4 months. It was your Marshal of the Sejm a few days ago that you were manipulated by the Kukiz club15 and adopted a bill you did not want to accept. If there was a normal debate in this Seym, if you listened to the opposition's arguments, we could avoid a lot of things. On the other hand, the country - it is worth it for the Poles to hear it, our guests at the gallery - you work as follows. We see problems, we see that you are not doing well, e.g. in Polish-Ukrainian relations. We ask you to debate. We want to present to you our point of view, the point of view of a traditional Polish foreign policy. All you're doing is keeping this request four months in the marshal's freezer, and then you're rejecting it without any discussion. If only this was the case, there would be no problem, but during this time you are devastateing Polish-Ukrainian relations, you cause the Werchowa Council to call us to remember. It is a shame for Poland to show more respect for our achievements than we do. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They hold back and say, "Hey, come back to cooperation, and you don't want to cooperate." [[Is this a formal conclusion?]] The bottom line is you're making us honor the memory of a man, supposedly murdered...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u295	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u296	...in Krakowskie Przedmieście, and four months you're rejecting a request for information about the death of Igor... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u297	Thank you, sir, but I inform you that this is not a formal proposal. Unfortunately, I would like to point out to you that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and I am saying this in accordance with the Rule. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. We would like to return to the discussion of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Juliusz Lea, President of the City of Krakow in the 100th anniversary of his death. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission is asking for... [[Voice from the room: Questions!]] The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute. Please. [[I'm saved, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u298	Ladies and gentlemen! We wanted to celebrate the great Pole, the president of the city of Cracow Juliusz Lea on the 100th anniversary of his death. The president of the city of Krakow for 16 years, died in 1918, not only modernised and expanded the city, gave it momentum, introducing a modern management system... [[Voice from the room: Is that a statement?]] ...but at the same time he was a great patriot. This must be remembered in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. He was the first president of 1914. Chief National Committee and co-founder of Polish Legions. In addition, at its request, the City Council provided a donation of 1 million kroner to the emerging regions. He was a great patriot and was able to use the freedoms that prevailed in Galicia to promote patriotism, modernise the city and use his influence in the Galician Seym, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where he was president of the Polish Circle. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the memory of Juliusz Lea on the 100th anniversary of his death. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u299	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2274, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Wait a minute.]] 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. [[You've already been mean, Marshal.]] The Sejm unanimously adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Juliusz Lea, President of the City of Krakow, on the 100th anniversary of his death. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on bailiffs. The additional report shall be in print No 2032-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law on bailiffs, print No 1582. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. After considering these amendments yesterday, the Commission recommends rejecting amendments 1 and 2 and accepting amendments 3 to 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u301	Thank you. Let me remind you that this is a draft of the 2032 Print Act. The amendments presented in the report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 149 applicants propose that enforcement fees should constitute the full income of the bailiff. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. I remind you, the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! I would like to ask this question: why did the idea of the PiS to reward bailiffs on a commission basis, and what, therefore, is the usury of the state towards those who have suffered a tragedy? [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to these new two laws, every thousand zlotys will be guaranteed 100 zlotys commission. Let me give you another example. Since PLN 1200 of debt at the beginning of the proceedings, the debtor pays at the end of 3500, and today you still guarantee greater profits. So far, the bailiff has had 50,000. A month, now he's going to have 70,000. monthly. Mr. President, really think about what you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u303	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 66 votes against 361, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 225 applicants propose to apply also the provisions of Article to applicants and assessors. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed provisions limit the possibility for bailiffs to perform certain tasks themselves. Only one year after the start of the application will the applicant be able to perform office and order activities only. I would like to ask whether such a solution will not result in applicants not being properly prepared for the profession, especially since other laws governing the functioning of legal professions provide for the possibility for applicants to perform certain activities themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u305	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 3, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 401 against - 4, 30 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 801 consisting of an addition of § 4 and to Article 4 801 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the applicant proposes, inter alia, that, in certain situations, a bailiff should be ordered by the creditor to search for the debtor's assets for further execution. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law, on which we will be voting in a moment, does not constitute an act which would significantly improve the functioning of the judicial execution process, contrary to the announcements. It does not contain solutions that would improve the enforcement process, on the contrary, there is a concern of slowing it down. According to some experts, e.g. Prof. Andrzej Marciniak, the solutions adopted threaten to reduce the effectiveness of the judicial execution to a level prior to the entry into force of the current 1997 Act. The project also does not improve enforcement efforts in relations between the creditor, the bailiff and the debtor. I would like to ask the Minister why, in the proposed solutions, you have focused mainly on limiting the functioning of the bailiff's authorities, expanding the supervisory system, while many issues have been dealt with marginally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am referring mainly to solutions that improve the execution process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u307	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 4, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 256 voted against - 8, with 169 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 305 applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 14, 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Members shall ask. Member of Krzysztof Paszyk, club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. [[I quit.]] The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! I have a question for you. You promised people in the election campaign a reduction in bailouts, and in the meantime this is an obvious increase in bail fees. People are told that of 15% We're going down to 10%. This is fiction, because monetary liabilities are 94% , the majority is deducted from the accounts and the fees for them are 8% So we're practically raising that amount. Mr. President! Civil processes in Poland are almost the most expensive processes in Europe. By raising these charges, we're ruining the debtors. I wonder what you're gonna tell them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u309	The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's another legal thing. It's another legal issue, the effect of populists taking over justice. It is not only that you do not reduce the fees of the state, it is practically because execution in Poland will be impossible. Many law firms will fall, and anyone who lends money to someone or pays for their work, child support or benefits will be left to himself. I urge you to stop being such a populist. I'm sure in a moment you'll be talking about the elites, as it always is in your custom. I have an appeal. What kind of bill are you going to take, that's the opposite effect, that's the case with the IPN Act. Now you're gonna lead me to believe that instead of improving the execution situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will make it worse and cause that execution in Poland will not be at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u311	Thank you, sir. The Deputy Minister of Justice, Patrick Jak, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u312	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! We would like to move away from this populist formulation of Mr Budka. [[It's about time.]] If he mentions all the activities we have done and says that we are supposed to do what we are going to do, it is wrong, then it would be enough to mention only a few such cases, several such cases that he had previously dealt with, among others. Mr Budka, which we are dealing with today. Turns out the prisoners could never work, and the future law and justice crew, and now they're working the most in history. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[One-tenth of a job.]] The electronic surveillance system you left behind, it was completely lying down, today it rose by 100%. [[But how does that apply to bailiffs?]] Reprivatization, I could trade here for a long time. Suddenly it turns out that what couldn't be done is done. [[Applause]] All we had to do was introduce criminal laws, and suddenly there is an extended confiscation: 500 million zlotys were confiscated from criminals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You couldn't before, now you can. It could be exchanged for a long time. But let's talk about bailiffs. [[Yeah, let's get to the point.]] High Seym! This is the first comprehensive, new, uniform bill on the bailout system in Poland in over 19 years... [[That's a lie.]] ...which changes everything, changes vectors, changes the way you think about the execution system in the Polish state. At the very beginning, Mr Budka did not check the most important element. You're saying we have bailiffs falling under our rule. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice have come to power and we have 230 more law firms. We also have higher efficiency. Effectiveness has increased, High Sejm, by almost 5%, if we look at these most important statistical elements, but that is not what we want to talk about. On the other hand, we have heard accusations against this bill that debtors will pay more. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the numbers. After all, today's basic fee is 8%. and 15% . On average, as we have shown you many times, the debtor pays a fee of more than 12%. And so far, it was the debtor who had to pay the VAT. Now the system will be transparent and transparent, because instead of these 15% and 12% The debtors will pay 10%. This will be a clear system for the creditor and the debtor. If any of you are trying to say that 10% is more than 15% I can't help it. [[Applause]] High Seym! What's the most important thing? You've listed some of these elements, some fundamental allegations of this bill. First of all, bailiff status. We accepted, and that's what these giant pathologies that you could observe on TV every day, not to mention the famous tractor, the tragedy of families, the children who were taken away by the last estate, even though they were often not indebted at all... That is why we make it possible to write directly in the bill: the bailiff is a public authority. The bailiff will be a public servant again, not the one who will carry out his business, executional activities. [[Applause]] Finally, we are restoring enforcement activities to the state. That's one thing. Secondly, as a rule, we believe that the bailiff government will not be able to conduct business. It would seem to be something absolutely fundamental, but it wasn't. This is bailiff status. The second element, the professionalization of the profession, you mentioned this in your speech. Today's the case, I don't know if the High Sejm knows that up to 10% of the bailiffs have no higher education and 30% have no higher education. He doesn't have a law degree. We're professionalizing this, every bailiff will have to have a law degree. [[Voice from the room: Neither do you.]] [[And you?]] Plus, we say no more assailants. Many pathologies, especially those that have been mentioned many times in this House, e.g. In the Łódź voivodship, it came from the fact that you allowed people who were learning to work to carry out brutal executions. That's why we say quite enough: the applicant is a theory, the asessor can only learn practice, but the actions, it's a principle, they do bailiffs in the field, because they're called to do that. This is absolute professionalization of the profession. In addition, we create sections and specialised departments in courts, which will allow for a higher quality of enforcement services. The third element - humanitarianism. I mean, we want the bailiff's profession to finally be humane, humane, which means that every execution has to be recorded as a rule. Moreover, it was often that the bailiff entered the apartment of a frightened family and this family did not even know what rights he had and how to defend himself against it. Now the bailiff will be required to give such a family a standardised form which will show what rights the family has, which is essentially to show when and where they can appeal, only by filling in this form. We also help people who couldn't handle the legal system. Active role of the police. If a police officer sees a bailiff carrying out an execution like this. Like the one with the famous tractor, he'll finally have the right to intervene. It's not gonna be like a cop saying he was standing by and saw something was wrong, but he couldn't do anything, and that's the kind of system you guys tolerated. [[Voice from the room: Finish now.]] In addition, we introduce a catalogue of items that will not be executed, important for children, for families - washing machines, refrigerators. Moreover, as a rule, the execution cannot be carried out from objects other than the property of the debtor. It would seem to be an elementary issue in today's world, but it's not. The elimination of ventricular pathology. You were talking about ventricular pathology. After all, this law once and for all abolishes the so-called. Chamber wholesalers. Moreover, it significantly limits trade in debt, which is one major pathology of the Third Republic. There will be liquidation of the old Commission, auctions as a whole - as we will look at as a whole at the situation of the bailiffs - in principle they will be electronic. Control of the bailiff. Your Sejm, we are finally introducing responsible supervision here by the President of the Court. It's not gonna be like we don't know who's controlling the bailiff anymore. In the area concerned, the President of the Court will be responsible for its activities. We introduce the possibility of preventive checks by the Minister of Justice, we introduce mandatory checks in each chamber, we introduce an obligation for the President of the Tax Office to participate in these audits also in financial terms. So this is a real professional checkup, just like it should be in the country. In addition, we introduce transparent fees, but I already mentioned that. And, High Sejm, we are looking at this system, this new bailiff system as a whole, which is not only from the perspective of the debtor, but also from the perspective of the creditor. Therefore, we will promote effectiveness and in principle there will be no more situations that one bailiff earns 2 or 3 million, one bailiff who has more than 10,000. cases. After all, it is obvious that the bailiff is not usually able to even review the files of so many cases in a year. That's why we, as a rule, introduce 2.5,000. cases for the bailiff's office, but if one bailiff proves to be more effective if it proves to be more than 35% effective, it could be up to 5,000. cases. Therefore, in one word, we are finally introducing a real, long-awaited reform of the enforcement system in Poland, a reform which will also see a man, a reform that will allow a man, even if he gets into problems, to lift himself out of it so that the State can give him a hand, and finally so that the creditor can count on an effective state. That's the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u313	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2032, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 254 against - 174, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on bailiffs. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft bill on bail-out costs. The additional report is in print 2030-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee of justice, I have the honour to present an additional report on the draft bill on bail-out costs, print No. 1581. 20 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Justice Commission yesterday considered them and recommended the adoption of amendments: 1., 2., 13., 18., 19 and 20. and rejection of the others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u315	There you go. Let me remind you, it's about printing 2030. We will first vote on the minority proposal and the amendments tabled in the additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 6 applicants propose to add point 4a. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Art. The 25th Act provides for a comparative fee for the bailiff ranging from PLN 150 to PLN 50,000. zł. We offer to reduce them - from 100 PLN to 200 thousand. zł. Well, I'm wondering, ladies and gentlemen, about one thing: why the PiS is so eager to move towards an increase in bail-in fees, which will de facto lead to the creditor not recovering his money. [[Applause]] Once again, ladies and gentlemen, think about it. Already with small debts, about $1,000. PLN, in civil and enforcement proceedings, the debtor pays almost three times their value. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u317	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u318	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no doubt that the bail-out system in Poland was malfunctioning and its reform was required. However, it is important that changes bring real improvements and social justice. Under the cloak of civilising the execution process, unfortunately, it cannot lead to its inability. Dear Minister, The bailiff has always been a public servant, but according to your law, the bailiff continues to conduct business on his own. His remuneration is subject to VAT. The bailiff is responsible for his own firm. Finally, the bailiff hires employees. Is this someone doing business, or is it a public servant? You have introduced a hybrid that will prove inefficient and will work against creditors, to the detriment of Polish companies, to the detriment of mothers who take alimony, to the detriment of employees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which employers are overdue with payment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u319	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 370, against 52, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 4 and 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 48 against - 374, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one specific question: How will you not be ashamed to look debtors and creditors in the eye, and why are you not fulfilling your own electoral promises to reduce enforcement fees? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u321	The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no fee in this bill that would be increased. There are reductions, but rational reductions. On the one hand, we hear that the bailiff should still make millions, on the other hand, we hear that he shouldn't make anything, or even that he should add to this business. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to be rational. Those reductions we're proposing are exactly what they are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u323	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 52 votes against - 377, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 47 against - 380, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. 27 The applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 45 votes against - 385, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. 27 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I wanted to ask you: What great work does the bailiff do by taking the bank account? Well, you're offering him at least 5%. commissions when we anticipate a 3-percent commission. Take a look at this, like, 100,000. How much for sending one letter - to the ZUS, to the bank, to the workplace - to the bailiff? And you're telling us it's gonna be lower charges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u325	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 50, against 268, with 113 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 27 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. Amendment 9 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, we want to lower the commission, a relative charge, when the debtor brings money to the bailiff himself within a month. So far, you're predicting 3%, we're predicting 2%. We think it's a lot of money anyway, because the bailiff doesn't do anything about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u327	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 7 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 79, against 349, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to add a second and third sentences. Amendments 10 to 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8 and 10 to 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 44 votes against - 388, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 9, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 30. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 163 votes against, 266 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 31. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment aims to reduce the relative charge in the case of securing a money claim on a bank account. According to your project, that's 10%. We're offering 3%. I think 10% for securing the bill... Let the entrepreneurs count well what the amount is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u329	Thank you. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 180 voted against - 254, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 33. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 163 votes against - 264, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 34. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 47 votes against - 377 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 48 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 248 against 126, with 57 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 53. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 3 with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. The 54 applicants propose that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2019. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 2, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the entire bill, the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I'm sorry to say that you've approved and you're about to pass a bill that was lobbied for, for the bailiffs, so that they'll enjoy it. [[Applause]] We, on the other hand, wanted to ensure that this law was for debtors and creditors. I'm asking you what your purpose was. Do not convince us that if a commission is paid to the Treasury and excessive fees are raised, it will lead to a reduction. Minister Yak! What's civilization? You'll think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u331	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law must be considered together with the previous one. In total, they do not create a coherent financial system for bail-in activities that would encourage bailiffs to enforce cases efficiently. The best example here is that in the case of large law firms that run the most cases, from the $1,000 executed. zł The Treasury will collect 400 zł. This is not for the benefit of the debtor, nor for the creditor, nor for the bailiff. In both of these laws, there are more rules that are inconsistent, abolishing some fees to average salary, average salary, and therefore it will have to be re-newed. In some cases they leave too high fees, in others too low. In total, this law may weaken the enforcement of claims and there will be no guarantee of enforcement of claims which the court will order for the creditor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u333	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2030, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There were 249 votes against - 185 and three abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on bailouts. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Water Law Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2276. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were supposed to be Polish waters, Polish swamp came out. And as it gets in the swamp, every step of the way, it keeps melting more and more. Employees from marshal offices have nothing to work on, no desks, no contracts signed, no knowledge of how much they will work for, what they will work for, what they will do. There aren't even contracts signed with the Polish Post, and the perpetrator of this whole mess I don't know where he went. Therefore, the question to the Prime Ministers: Where is the perpetrator of all this confusion, Minister Gajda, and what reward did he receive for making this whole mess? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u335	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, you pushed new ones. Water law. There was supposed to be a new order in water management, and there was a disaster. You have retained all the investments, since 1 January no environmental decisions can be taken. You're in debt, you're bankrupt. The National Water Farm of Poland is bankrupt. [[Applause]] You can't even afford to pay your current bills, and you've already eaten half the grant. There's supposed to be a budget of four billion, and there's a budget of 1300 million. [[Don't yell.]] You have 1 million PLN for investments in Poland as a whole. [[Quiet, don't yell.]] PLN 1 million. It's a shame. One law has led to a disaster in water management. [[Applause]] [[Don't scream.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u337	Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the fact that the Water Law Act is terrible, you don't have to convince anyone who thinks. [[Applause]] And I'm going to give you one example, which is very extreme. You have established the State Water Farm of Poland, which was supposed to manage the entire economy, and as it does, shows an example of a water barrier on the Lake Mucharski. There was supposed to be a power plant and there was a power plant that was supposed to deliver electricity to the surrounding towns. Several trials were carried out with positive results, but due to the incompatibility of the Water Law Act with other laws it is impossible to sell electricity, it is impossible to collect water for this power plant. In December last year, power plant facilities lost the guarantee, devices worth PLN 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, how much longer are you going to make such a bad law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u339	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 177 voted against - 247, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we hear... [[Members put money in a jar kept by Mr Grzegorz Długo, cheerfulness in the hall, applause]] May I, Mr. Marshal, ask for time... Mr. Marshal, please allow me to speak. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can see, the Polish waters have turned out to be extremely cloudy, just as cloudy as the law you're practicing, and that's because you don't listen to anyone and anything, and then you fall over, you stumble over your own legs. One minister has already sailed through these muddy waters, the other one isn't good enough because it appears to us as a specialist in Polish-Jewish relations [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the expected infamous...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u342	But, Marshal, I'm asking... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about my time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u343	Thank you, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u344	Mr. Marshal, you're responsible for...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u345	Thank you, Member. Please leave the podium. Thank you very much. Please leave the podium. [[That's rude, that's not fair.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u346	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. On the occasion of the Water Law Act, I would like to remind you that in 2016 Minister Gajda signed an agreement with trade unions in order to increase wages for employees of today's Polish Water farm - this is about increases of 850 PLN. One and a half years have passed, these workers have not received this money, and I therefore call on the Prime Minister, the State, Prime Ministers and the Polish Government to comply with the commitment made and to finally get the rise they deserved from the Polish Water farm, under which they signed, approved it, Minister Gajda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u347	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2276, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 244 voted against - 173, with four abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Water Law Act. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity: - a parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, - a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (prints No 2009, 2112, 2134 and 2134-A) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2134-A. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm and the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm presented by the Sejm Bureau. Two requests for rejection of the draft resolution were submitted during the second reading. The Commission has taken a negative view of these proposals. Five amendments were also tabled. The Commission recommends that they be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u349	Thank you very much. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2134. We will vote on the motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety, the proposal of minorities and the amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. The Commission, I remind you, requests that the proposal be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u350	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Members of the applicants: What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of... [[Traitors!]] ...making changes that we're working on today? I think you're afraid of the Kukiz15 movement, because we're the only substantive opposition in the Sejm, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We fight for Poles, we fight for their affairs. Well, I have the impression that you are not afraid of Members of the Civic and Modern Platform, total opposition, because they have nothing to offer ordinary Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] [[Are you sure?]] The only thing the Civic Platform has to say is defend their guys, defend their friends. [[You still have a lot to learn.]] She showed it yesterday, at the last sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, defending Mr Gawłowski. [[Luke, there's no going back.]] That's why I have a question about this project. [[Traitor!]] Why will we not be dealing with the project at the next session of the Sejm when it comes to Mr Gawłowski? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Sit down, there's no going back.]] It cannot be in the Polish Seym of sacred cows, equal and equal. [[Why don't you take care of Rooster?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u351	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u352	We have to take care of everyone... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u353	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Sir, please leave... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, you want to intimidate the opposition, on the other hand, hinder its activity in the Polish parliament. [[She made it harder for herself.]] You want to punish the opposition, make it easier to impose fines in the amount of a monthly minister's reward from the PiS government. That's what you're trying to make easier. There was a time in Poland when it was also said that the opposition could not act, that it hindered power. Then there were people who had the courage to pay a high price for it - prison, internment - because they acted in opposition and did not let themselves be intimidated by power. They're here, in this room, in the ranks of the Civic Platform. [[Eight years of your rule.]] Some people paid even higher prices. Antek The Man beaten by the SB, Henry Krzywonos beat up during the interrogation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You want to intimidate them now? Do you want to intimidate them with financial penalties? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You won't scare us. Prizes for the government, for the ministers of the PiS government, punishment for the opposition. But we won't be intimidated. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u355	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times during this term of office of the Sejm, we have witnessed acts of behavior that undermine this House's seriousness. Doesn't the seriousness of the debate affect the fact that Mr Kaczyński read the Atlas of Cats, taking the floor without any mode, calling Members of the opposition treasonous murders? Was he punished financially for this? The answer is simple: no. Mr Marshal, can we consider Mr Pyzik's behavior showing Mr Cimoszewicz the gesture of the middle finger to be a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm? Mr Pyzik also did not suffer any sanctions for this purpose. Other Members who did not act like this have been punished financially. So when is it a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm, for which you will punish Members? I think only when it concerns Members of the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u357	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 189 voted against 243, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[You'll be surprised how this works when you're in opposition.]] In the first amendment to Article. 8 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 8. Applicants shall also propose to maintain the existing Article. 152. Amendment 5 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is raised by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the intention of the PiS is to censor and intimidate the opposition, so that it will not be silently opposed to the PiS plans to destabilize Poland by imposing severe penalties on Members. As the practice so far shows, Members of the opposition will be punished because, as we know, no member of the governing party has yet been financially punished in this term. However, the Marshal of the Sejm, thanks to his new powers, will become the first censor of our House through the ability to control and supervise the statements of the Members of the opposition. The opposition does not intend to submit to censorship. We're not afraid of your punishments either.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u359	Mr President, ask a question about the amendment. The Sejm was and should remain the backbone of freedom of speech and democracy. We do not agree with the further destruction of democracy in Poland. [[Applause]] I draw Mr Truskolas' attention. [[Censor again!]] You weren't talking about it, so I'm calling you to the point. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 356, against - 71, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 39 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marshal said: applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. What's that? that mouth. 1a? Limiting questions in the debate at first reading in the plenary room. Someone who doesn't know the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will say, "What is it? They'll fight less in the Seym. But the first reading in the plenary room is what? It's a constitution. So, the Poles are not supposed to know what you want to change in the Constitution? The first reading in the plenary room is a system act. So, the Poles are not supposed to know what their rights are, what the office in their community can do? They're codes in the plenary room. What, the Poles are not supposed to know what you're changing in the Labour Code, how you limit their rights? The first reading in the plenary room is a budget. Why do you think Poles need to know what public money is spent on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's for prizes.]] The first reading in the plenary room is what? It's taxes. Why would they want to know that Mr. Kaczyński is raising fuel charges? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u361	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u362	And finally... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...first reading is civil projects. Why do you need civic projects? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u363	Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments to the PiS which introduce a limit for Members to speak in discussions are a gross violation of the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the parliamentary mandate, as well as of the Constitution which gives us freedom of expression. It is at this point where Polish democracy is embodied that freedom of expression should be broadest and not subject to any restrictions. It is on behalf of Poles that we speak on important matters for the functioning of our country. In the meantime, you, by introducing these amendments, want to limit our freedom to perform our constitutional duties. We don't agree to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u365	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 237 votes against - 190, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 54 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u366	For many years this Parliament has survived when there has always been a debate following the Senate's amendments. You are disturbed by the debate following the amendments of the Senate. If you hadn't avoided the debate... Because this Sejm does not suffer from excessive debate, this Sejm suffers from a lack of debate. You turned to society, to opposition with your backs, which is the highest you show offensive gestures, and you don't want to debate. But if you had taken this debate, maybe you wouldn't have to follow these strange figures and talk about freezing the laws, because all you had to do was listen to the arguments, prepare the law at the right level. This is what the debate is all about. All you can do is yell at the opposition, insult the opposition, yell. You don't use a parliamentary debate to create a good law. After all, we didn't come up with these laws, they've been here since the beginning of democracy, since 1989. The debate is an important thing. For you, the debate lasts a minute, the microphone is turned off, the meetings are held once a month. The debate is needed. In defence of the debate, we are here and ask you to reject [[♪ The bell ♪]] This amendment, because it kills Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u367	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Reading the PiS amendments and this amendment, which eliminates the debate on the Senate amendments, we can conclude that its aim is to gag the freedom of expression of Members of the opposition and deprive us of the possibility to comment on the activities of the PiS. Is this the democratic package that was supposed to be introduced into our rules of procedure? The laws in this House deal with important issues for our country, so it is important that there is freedom of discussion. The opposition is not a passive extra of PiS actions. We speak out loud about how you are destabilizing our country with your harmful actions. Therefore, the gradual reduction of freedom of expression is scandalous. You do not want to talk, you want to impose your will and your vision of Poland on us all. We're not gonna agree to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u369	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 232 voted against - 178, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 179 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a and 1b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This PiS-owska amendment introduces a provision that speeches during the examination of agenda items may not last more than 15 minutes. But this resolution also introduces provisions that a formal application should be made in writing. This is only a matter of limiting our freedom of expression. The formal proposals are often formulated before or during the deliberations during discussions on the most disturbing issues, so they are de facto written ad hoc. Accepting this proposal with this change will mean that Members will lose the opportunity to express their views on the issues they are looking for. The Marshal of the Sejm will therefore have another attribute of effective gagging the mouth of the opposition, actually making it difficult for us to review the actions of the ruling party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u371	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 237 voted against - 193, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Oh, Mr. Marshal, dear.]] In the only minority application, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 3 194 and paragraph (a) thereof. Article 6 196. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this minority proposal, I propose that questions on current matters and current information be at the same level as they are now. Because you have withdrawn from the separation system of the committee and the Sejm's deliberations, but the deliberations, Mr. Marshal, have been scheduled every three weeks. Therefore, questions on current matters and current information will be limited for us. It will be restricted to the opposition, so if you want to debate every three weeks, give us the opportunity to ask as many questions as we have asked so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u373	Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why you even need the rules. Why do you decide anything if you don't? Mr Marshal is the best example of the fact that, if you strictly follow the penalties, today is the can that Members here have among themselves to throw themselves at a certain minister for the first time, each meeting would be a can for the Marshal, because the amount of penalties that the Sejm should impose on your marshal for violating the rules would long exceed your salary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u375	Mr President, talk about the minority proposal. I draw your attention to the point. [[To the point, he's talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u376	Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the article. 184, which absolutely does not allow the Marshal to censor statements in the event of corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u377	I'm bringing you back to your senses because you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u378	Unfortunately, you are an example of the fact that even the best regulations, if they are not complied with or misunderstood, lead to pathology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u379	Mr President, I am about to have to take away your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u380	It's still in the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But we will settle you someday, you will see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u381	Time's up. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 267, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before the whole question is asked by Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just had a show of yours: what will the Sejm's proceedings look like. These changes to the rules are very powerful in your hands. Your hands, when you are able to remove someone from the Sejm's deliberations who will say to you: Mr. Marshal, dear, music eases customs, and you do not see the Messenger of the Mirror who votes for two hands. [[Applause]] You don't see an MP showing a middle finger gesture. You're bothered by any criticism. You will be able to decide for one person that the Member will be punished financially, because you will find, in yourself, that he is violating the seriousness of the Sejm. Yes, sir. [[Voice from the room: Don't shout, or the baby will wake up.]] [[And he's gonna give himself a reward.]] You want to punish the opposition financially, and you give yourself prizes. You give yourself a one-time prize greater than the amount that the average Pole earns all year round, and yet Prime Minister Gowin claims that he is not satisfied with the first to first. [[Applause]] And this is a democratic package?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u383	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution is indeed harmful to our House and introduces many aspects that restrict our freedom of speech and gag us. What is the seriousness of the Sejm, Marshal? To this day I have not received an answer from the Members of the PiS, what is the seriousness of the Sejm and when it will be broken, who will decide it. Just you? Who's gonna break the Sejm's weight? Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only the seriousness of the Sejm, but also the adoption of a change to prevent clubs and parliamentary wheels from asking questions at third reading. As Members, we will no longer be able to express our will at the third reading, we will not be able to talk about the amendments, because the Marshal will not allow questions to be asked at the third reading. Let us vote against this bad resolution, because it gags the mouth of the Members of the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u385	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL - UED, has the floor. This is a new club. Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u386	A question for the marshal. Mr. Marshal! Do you remember as one of the leaders of Law and Justice the promise you made twice in the election campaign in 2011 and then in 2015, the so-called. The democratic package? About the introduction of regular debates with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. About the law of opposition to questioning, which is a good custom in the most respectable democracies, in particular the British Parliament, where every Tuesday during parliamentary sessions there are live debates between the Members of the opposition and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The British Prime Minister has the courage to stand up and answer to the Members of the opposition. The Polish Prime Minister, the Polish Marshal and the majority of the Law and Justice fear the opposition, fear the discussion, gag the mouth of the Members of the opposition. Are you aware that you are denying your promises once again? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u387	I don't agree with your opinion. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Ryszard Terlecki, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Democrat!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition is talking about debate? [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] What do you do regularly at almost every meeting, is this a debate? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The opposition talks about formal proposals, how you abuse almost every meeting of formal proposals? [[Voice from the room: Where's the question?]] The opposition is talking about questions about how you mix statements with questions and pretend, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're asking questions, and you're actually making statements? [[It's best for them to remember when they were in opposition.]] Do you remember what it was like for your power? Do you remember how much time the opposition had, how much time we had to ask questions, and how much time we had to speak from that speaker? Have you forgotten? [[Exactly.]] Democratic package. We talked about it when there was still a normal Sejm and a normal opposition. [[And now there's a dictatorship.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Dictatura!]] Now there's total opposition, now there's street and abroad. And you want a democratic package? [[Applause]] Abroad? On the street? That's not gonna happen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u389	Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Eliminate the opposition.]] [[Voice from the room: This is your debate.]] [[Oh, we're scared, we're scared.]] Your attention, please. You won't be able to hear it. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in its entirety, together with the amendments adopted, in print no. 2134, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 238 against - 199, with 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law on amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. I don't know, for the time I am reproving Mr Nitras. [[But for what?]] Don't yell at me and let me handle this. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2244-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled yesterday during the second reading. The amendment was tabled by the Modern Parliamentary Club. This amendment was examined at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. The Commission calls on the High House to reject this amendment and adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u391	Thank you. This amendment, which the committee puts forward in its additional report, will be voted first. I'd like to remind you that it's printing 2244. In the only amendment to the article. 56 Act on driving vehicles applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We just had the best example of a proper political debate, when the marshal came out to speak, spoke not about, did not ask questions, but did not have to speak because he was on the right side of the room. [[And you're asking questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u393	Member, talk about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! The person who called other Members of the opposition from clowns, political bunches, from this speaker, has no right to speak about the public debate in the Polish Parliament. You should have given the Vice Marshal's seat back a long time ago because you just don't deserve it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u395	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not mentioned the 2244 amendment. [[And Terlecki?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 228, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2244, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 419 against - 6, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2266. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2266, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 425, no one voted against, no one abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is asked by Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law, the creditor obtains a worse position than the debtor who does not repay the debt. Will the creditor's situation improve if we reduce the limitation period from 10 to 6 years and the debtor continues to avoid payment? The Executive Title shall be valid for 6 years. That's not true. All you have to do is interrupt the limitation period, and you can do it endlessly. This law introduces inequality in relation to the law, as it gives only one group the right of limitation of its own motion. And when the consumer is a well-earned lawyer, and the creditor runs a one-man company, barely making ends meet, and he doesn't have enough to get to the first one? This law works against acquired rights, violates the principle of non-retroactivity. What if the debtor wants to prove that there is no obligation and that the statute of limitations is ex officio? The argument to secure the weaker debtor does not work either, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause there's, like, an art. 212 c.p.c. This bill just can't be improved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u397	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Justice Łukasz Piebiak requests the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me briefly answer Mrs Dolniak's question. It is obvious that if you read the text of this law that shortening the limitation period from 10 years to 6 accelerates the enforcement of claims, the party is more interested in bringing the case to court. Faster the claims are extinguished, the shorter the weaker side of the legal relationship, because we are talking about consumers, is in this uncertainty. The so-called phenomenon is being reduced. raising debts, pursuing claims not so much as major but additional claims, interest and others. And it is difficult to prove the thesis that the Member has just presented, that shortening the limitation period does not accelerate, since, if this is done at primary school level, it accelerates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u399	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2216, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 33 against - 389, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing the bill to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: election of a member of the Court of State (prints 2262 and 2303). On the basis of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on the Court of State and Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should the term of office of a member of the Court of State expire, the Sejm shall make a supplementary choice. Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski has been nominated as a member of the Court of State. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present this candidacy and to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski's candidacy as a member of the Court of State. Maciej Gustaw Zaborowski was born on 10 February 1984. He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He also completed postgraduate studies in intellectual property law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw and postgraduate studies in evidence law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. He also took a lawyer's application in the Bar Association in Warsaw, completed with a passed bar exam. He graduated from Center for American Law Studies and Leadership Academy for Poland, conducted among others. by Harvard Kennedy School of Government, the 16th School of Civil Society Leaders, founded by Prof. Zbigniew Pełczyński from Oxford University in the UK, as well as the Academy of Young Diplomats - specialization: foreign service. He is also in the process of writing his doctoral thesis in criminal law, as well as, starting in 2018, a Harvard Law School student. He gained his professional experience, among others. in several well-known Warsaw law firms, as well as in the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Rome, in the Ministry of Justice and in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, where he was co-authored, among others. a report by the Sejm Committee of Inquiry to investigate the course of the legislative process by amending the law on games and betting. He is the author of numerous legal opinions related to the legislative process, including those implemented, among others. on behalf of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. He is also a professional mediator of the Mediation Centre at the Chief Bar Council and lecturer on the bar application in the Bar Chamber in Warsaw. Currently, as a lawyer, he is a managing partner at Kopeć Zaborowski Lawyers and Counsellors, nominated in January 2018 in the competition The Lawyer European Awards 2018 by the prestigious British magazine "The Lawyer" for the Law Firms of the year: Poland. He specializes in criminal law, press law and the protection of personal property. He is also an expert in the Ministry of Justice on the changes in criminal law, co-author of the revision of the Penal Code, the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, including. concerning the so-called confiscation of extended criminal liability of judicial experts, so-called non-alination offences and liability of collective entities for prohibited acts. From an early age, he has been involved in pro activities. publico bono, including e.g. acting as Chairman of the Foundation's Foundation's Founders' Board. He is a commentator of current events in the legal aspect of the media. He is also the winner of the prestigious competition Rising Stars - Lawyers of the Leaders of the Tomorrow, organized by the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna and Wolters Kluwer under the patronage of the President of the General Bar Council and the President of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels. Also awarded for activities pro publico bono by the District Bar Council in Warsaw. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Maciej Gustaw Zaborowski is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I also have the honour to present an opinion on the proposal for the election of a supplementary member of the Court of State. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 February 2018, the Sejm sent the above proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for an opinion. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the above mentioned Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski's proposal at the meeting on 27 February 2018 and discussion decided to give a positive opinion. At the same time, the committee authorised me to present this opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u401	Thank you, sir. Would any of you like to take the floor on your candidacy? There's reports, right? I propose that the Sejm listen to 2 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. [[Is he gonna find out what he just said?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, support the candidacy of Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski. [[Read it again.]] His extensive legal knowledge and, despite his young age, extensive legal experience guarantee that he is a good candidate for a member of the Court of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u403	Please, Mr Budek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just had the release of democracy in the PiS version - the candidate was reported and he was convincing himself what a great candidate this was. I think that, in the Rules of Procedure, you should say, with all due respect to the Member, that he is also to appear on behalf of the opposition and to say what a great candidate he is. [[Applause]] But the candidate's CV is missing what's most important - it's a person closely connected to the Minister of Justice. This is another example of how you treat state authorities. The Court of State, which is to deal with politicians, shall be filled by a man who, in private cases, represents or represents the Minister of Justice, who is a member of the Supervisory Board of PZU SA. [[But so what?]] This is also an example of how you treat your son, because this is not enough for you - it is now the Court of State. [[But what does that have to do with anything?]] And now I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you proceed in this way at all, that is, the Constitutional Tribunal - those who write opinions in your favor, the Court of State - those who defend you. You're just changing things, and I'd like to remind you - the Court of State won't defend you. I very much hope that in the next term of office the Court of State will finally do what he was called to do, which is to take care of each one of you who has broken the constitution, each of you, [[Applause]] who broke the law. [[You bet.]] And the Court of State - I can promise that here - will be constructed so that there will indeed be independent professionals, not lawyers in the service of your parties. The Court of State will be there to finally judge you. Therefore, no one who is a man of little honor will support a candidate submitted in this mode, in this way, a candidate directly associated with the camp of power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will not vote in favour of this candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u405	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect a member of the Court of State by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski as a member of the Court of State would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 261 voted against - 149 and 16 abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski as a member of the Court of State. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 2313). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 2313, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 3, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 28 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you wanna join us, you're welcome. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 20 hours 18 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would anybody else like to make a statement, ladies and gentlemen? Nobody volunteer, I'm closing the list. Please take the floor and make a statement by Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to address to Mr Joachim Brudziński, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, including many other Members for social action: safe travel.org. This is an action that raises a lot of controversy about the issue of the speed meters Spark-1 that are used by police traffic. Dear Minister, The equipment available to police officers from traffic departments across the country, and more specifically, the manual speed meters Spark-1, does not meet the metrology requirements laid down in the regulations. According to the above provisions, the meter shall clearly indicate which vehicle speed is displayed on the screen. Spark-1 is a simple device of Russian production similar to a gun, commonly referred to by drivers as a dryer. At the point where the standard gun has a barrel, a microwave-bearing element is installed and received. Importantly, in the case of the Spark-1 meter, there is no indication of the speed measurement of the vehicle. The officer shall have at his disposal only three ranges of operation of Iskra-1: up to 300 m, up to 500 m and up to 800 m, and may additionally switch the device into a speed measurement mode of the vehicle approaching or moving away from it. In practice, this means that when there is no place on a completely empty road for the control of the spark-1 device, it is impossible to determine which vehicle speed has been measured. Therefore, if a given road was driven by dozens of vehicles, and a policeman measured the speed, then the driver indicated by the vehicle officer could definitely say: Please prove that the speed of my car has actually been measured. In addition, it should be mentioned that the number of spark-1 devices exceeds 600 units throughout the country. It is nearly 40 pieces per voivodship. With a request to withdraw from the use of unreliable Russian radars, their trade unionists had already called on the Police Headquarters. As Mr Rafał Jankowski, Chairman of the NSZZ Chief Police Officers, stressed at the time, it was also a matter of ensuring that the drivers could be sure that the equipment remaining on the equipment of the traffic patrols was fully operational. In addition, in a letter addressed to the Police Headquarters, the trade unionists wrote that the use of the Isokra-1 device makes them laugh in everyday work. In their view, police officers had to explain to the court and the media on several occasions the use of speed meters, which they believe should not be allowed to be used. As they emphasized, with the current technological advancement of all aspects of human life, the resulting unpleasant situations of using the Isle of 1 harm the image of police officers and expose them to criminal and sometimes even disciplinary responsibility. Police headquarters have responded to their concerns about the spark-1 radar. According to the union, the message is as follows: this radar can be used by police officers, but only on their responsibility. Police unionists immediately emphasized that this is a rather curiosious position. The problem arose in the case of several cars. The answer sent by the Police Headquarters was, among others, possible. read that when measuring speed the fastest [[♪ The bell ♪]] A moving vehicle...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u407	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u408	...against the background of the group, the measuring person must have absolute certainty...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u409	It's over. Here you are, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u410	I have a huge request here...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u411	Member, it is over. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u412	Marshal, I'm almost done, less than a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u413	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u414	One sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u415	Today I have extended your time several times.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u416	Good. From this point of view, I address Minister Joachim Brudziński: Why, despite subsequent unfavourable judgments, are they still in the state of the individual police units and are used by the traffic department officers in their business activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u417	Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u418	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This year, for the eighth time, we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance for the Soldiers of the Cursed. 2018 is the year of the Republic of Poland, the year in which we celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. All over the country on March 1st, there are calls of memory, exhibitions, Holy Masses, concerts. The National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers is a special day, a day of history, a day of reminiscing the history of Poland, our homeland, which for so many years was so confusing, so to lie that soldiers who did not lay down their weapons after 1945 were spoken either wrongly or not spoken at all. Even in their families, they were whispering about them. I know of cases where sons learned about the glorious past of their fathers from their father's colleagues only after his death. This day brings reflection on what these young people fought for, why they didn't put up their weapons. They certainly couldn't agree to a new occupier coming from the East. After all these years of fighting, they wanted Poland back completely free. They wanted to have a holiday like their parents did in 1918. They wanted independent Poland back. The enemy was strong, the enemy did not forgive, the enemy imprisoned, tortured, sentenced to death. Those soldiers lost, abandoned by allies, didn't give up. What prevented them from surrendering to the oppressor? That Poland was more expensive to them than their own lives. It drove the fight to the very end. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u419	Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 250 years ago, on 29 February 1768, in the Bar in Podol nobility under the leadership of Bishop Adam and his brother Michał Krasiński, Jerzy August Monszch and Józef Pułaski, father of Kazimierz, the commander of troops, established a Confederacy in defence of faith and freedom. The bar confederate gave character to later national independence raids, up to the enchanted soldiers and Solidarity. The meaning of the term: Polish patriot is derived from the Confederates of Barski. The faith of the Catholic saint with her own life and blood was defended - vowed by the Confederates. On the banners they carried the image of the crucified Jesus, the Blessed Mary, and the sign of the cross, on their breasts they had gutters, and their slogan was: Jesus, Mary. The Bar Confederation was a direct reaction to the ratification by the Sejm of Russia's right to carry out the perpetual guarantee of Polish affairs, directed against Russian interference in Poland's internal affairs and submissive Russia to King Stanisław August Poniatowski. The last free election of the First Republic in 1764 elevated Stanisław August Poniatowski to the throne of the Lithuanian stool. The king was supported by an influential group of magnates - the Czartory family, and above all by the czarica of Russia Catherine II. It influenced the king's policy by his fellow Members, of whom Nikolai Repnin was the most significant and insolent at the same time. At his command, the Sejm adopted a law on the equality of dissidents, which was considered an assassination of the Catholic religion. At the same time, intimidated by the Tsarica, Members adopted the so-called. Cardinal rights, i.e. guarantee of the unchangeable state of Poland, including liberum veto, which allowed neighbouring countries to interfere in the affairs of the country. Rape committed on the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland and other Moscow lawlessness, including imprisonment and exile to Kaluga bishops. Kajetana Sołtyk, became a direct cause of the armed appearance of Polish patriots against Russia. The Russian troops stationed on the lands of the Polish army at the order of the Tsaryca Katarzyna II after the announcement of the uprising were directed against the Confederates. Under the pressure of Russian MP Repnin, King Stanisław August Poniatowski agreed that the Crown troops should also participate in the suppression of the uprising. The Bar Confederation lasted the longest of all uprisings, from 1768 to 1772, and covered the largest area. More than 100,000 fought on the Confederate side. People. According to estimates of the time, 60,000 were killed. For four years, several hundred battles and battles were fought. In the consciousness of the next generations of Poles, the bar confederation left a lasting mark, becoming a national myth. The Confederates were zealous Catholics, carrying grenades with Our Lady of Czestochowa or Ostrobramska, which were supposed to protect them from bullets. Thanks to them, the rink tradition has spread. The Confederates were the first exiles to Siberia. Today we live in free Poland, but unfortunately today there are some who are looking for support in foreign courts, hanging from the door handle of foreign interests. I wish everyone who has a different view of Polish matters, on the direction of political or economic changes, that they wake up, so that they do not harm Poland, that they have a different view, do not motivate them to such actions as we know from the history of the market confederation, which we remember unambiguously - as betrayal. We may differ, we may argue, but let us always remember: the homeland is the most important thing, the one and the holy thing. And if anyone in his political anger acts to the detriment of his country, raises his hand to the independent Republic, seeking support in foreign courts, he is simply a traitor. [[Applause]] Everyone must realize that such action can end badly for Poland. As Poles, we must, we have a duty, we must support each other, we must build together the good of the Republic of Poland. Never act to harm your homeland, under no circumstances bring complaints abroad, ask strangers to bring order to our country, for any reason, for any money, positions or honors coming from a foreign hand. Let us take the example of the Confederates of the Bark, who did not hesitate to give their lives, risk the safety of their loved ones, sacrifice their wealth in defence of their homeland. Giving Polish cases into foreign hands cost us a long 123 years of struggle to regain independence. Let's learn a lesson from history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u421	Thank you. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice. Can you fit in five minutes? You can, the Member has just proved it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! God, honor, motherland - it's the creed of the enchanted soldiers. They believed that there was no greater value than their own sovereign and free homeland. It was her and the truth that the soldiers who were cursed fought for. They were hunted, trampled and murdered, and their loved ones were persecuted by the apparatus of the communist state. The purpose of that power was to prevent the Republic of Poland from being reborn. Fortunately, thanks to the people whose heroism we worship, our homeland was founded as free and independent. Many of them still remain nameless, and the memory of them is transferred primarily to their families. Meeting with the combatants and their relatives is always a unique experience. This was the case when I was contacted by the daughter of one of the late soldiers of Polish independence living in Australia, who came from the lands that are my constituency, who were active or resting on these lands. We're talking about the best brothers who gave their lives in the fight for Poland. Louis Nadolny died in the Battle of Bzura. The other three brothers, Antoni, Stanisław Kostka and Ignacy, fought first with the German invader and later with the Soviet invader. In 1955, the entire siblings of the Nadolni were arrested and after nine months of murder, two Nadolni brothers were sentenced to double death sentences, Sister Maria was sentenced to 15 years, and the third brother was sentenced to 12 years in prison. After the death of Bolesław Bierut and the April amnesty, the penalty was reduced. Their families, however, were destroyed, deprived of their means of life. They were struggling with extreme poverty and persecution. The sacrifice of many nameless soldiers must be spoken of in order to save their heroic sacrifice from oblivion. It is also necessary to bow down and thank all these patriots and volunteers who, in support of public offices and institutions, take action for historical truth and commemorate the heroism of the cursed soldiers. Among these noble people are among others. Fr. Dr Jarosław Wąsowicz, Józef Urbanowicz, Wiesław Fidurski, Edwin Klessa, Piotr Tomasz, Dariusz Żurek and others from my constituency - northern and western Wielkopolska. From this bleacher, thank you so much for this. It is a great pleasure and great honor to work with you. Today we have a truly free Poland, proud, straight and beautiful. It is our common duty that this be the case forever. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As in the whole country, on 1 March in Turku, on the initiative of the Turkish government, the city of Turku and the municipality of Turkek will celebrate the celebrations of the National Day of Remembrance of the Soldiers of the Cursed. In the village Pure pod Dobra in the district of Turkey, the Association of Friends of the Dobrska Land organizes the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed in a place of memory. The ceremony will be attended by local government officials, communes, dean of the Dobry decanate, clergymen, young people from primary, secondary schools, society, representatives of the Turkish Rings, organizations and associations, police and fire department. High Izbo! In the territory of the Turkish district there was a guerrilla division of Sergeant. Eugeniusz Kokolski ps. He's dangerous. It was active in the years 1945 and 1946. During this time he carried out many combat, diversionary, propaganda actions that effectively paralyzed the activities of the PPR and the communist forces in the region. In November 1945, the village of Pęczniew was seized by this branch and 2 days later the village of Dobra. The unit was operating by breaking down the next Citizen Militia stations in the region. In January 1946. However, the UB hit the guerrillas hard, part of the squad went into a raid and was crashed. Sergeant Sergeant's commanding officer himself. Eugeniusz Kokolski ps. The menace was wounded. Even though he managed to escape from the ambush, after a few days he was attacked on a farm in the village of Clean. No chance of getting out of the manhunt, sergeant. Eugeniusz Kokolski shot himself. After being transferred to the county security office in Turku, Eugeniusz Kokolski died. From this point of view, I cordially thank the local authorities, associations, schools and all organizations and participants of the ceremony for cultivating the memory of our national heroes in the territory of the Turkish county and warmly greeting them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 February, we celebrated the 76th anniversary of the transformation, by order of General Władysław Sikorski, the Armed Forces of the Polish Underground State. It was the largest formation of this kind in occupied Europe by the Germans, counting at the moment of maximum combat capability, in the summer of 1944, approx. Thirty-nine thousand. persons. Until the solution in January 1945, she carried over 110 thousand. Armed and diversionary actions. About 1300 actions directed against the forces of the AK participated in regular Wehrmacht troops, including armored forces and air forces. In general, Germany had to draw forces corresponding to 850 conversion battalions to fight the army of the underground state. In battles, the forces of the underground state killed over 150,000. soldiers, gendarmes, German collaborators. The AK was a true army dealing primarily with aspects of fighting. And so Division II of the Central Command was responsible for the interview. One of the greatest successes of underground intelligence is the acquisition of information about the German experimental centre of V1 and V2 weapons located in Peenemünde on the island of Uznam, and after its bombing carried to the field in the area of Hollow Scar. One of the most interesting ideas, this time the Office of Information and Propaganda, was the so-called. share of N. These were disinformation activities carried out among the Germans, designed to give the impression that they were the work of numerous German anti-Hitler groups and thus to undermine the morale of the invaders. I would like to remind you how much the activities of the AK have contributed to reducing fighting time and the number of victims on the Allied side in the fight against the Nazis. The bombing of Peenemünde caused delays in the military use of V1 and V2 missiles, which resulted in fewer casualties. In appreciation since the beginning of 1945. The AK and the government in London were censored by the British authorities, and the government's contacts with the troops behind Curzon's line were interrupted by the British. The AK soldiers were laid down by the Allies on the altar of political necessity and left behind the NKVD. In view of the current international situation, I must also remind you of another aspect of the Polish government's actions in exile. I am referring to the Council of Helping the Jews. The Polish government is the only government in the world - I stress: as the only one - he formally took care of the help of the Jews. I would like to remind you that Zegota was commemorated by a tree planted by the Yad Vashem Institute. Other countries, even those not under occupation, have not made such an organisational and financial effort. High Izbo! On 15 February, I had the honour to attend the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the 3rd High School in Łomża. Soldiers of the Łomżyń National Army Circuit. It was a very touching and upbuilding celebration. There was a patriotic involvement of young people. It is also admirable to know about the National Army, which the students carrying out the Jubilee showed. I would like to thank Mrs Grażyna Chodnicka, the director of the gym, the entire pedagogical group and the young people for being able to participate in this uplifting, touching and extremely patriotic celebration. I was so proud to have such wonderful young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u427	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point I spoke about the unlawful exercise of the mandate of the councilman of the municipality of Namysłów by Mr Konrad Gęsiarz, a local officer of PiS, which remained in conflict with the appointment of him as vice-starosta namysłowskiego, because either you are a councilman in the municipality, or you are a member of the board of the county. Situation: Have a cookie and eat a cookie, it's impossible. I also called Opole Voivodeship to act in surveillance mode. To my surprise, Mr. Voivode Adrian Chubak reacted. 5 months after receiving the relevant resolution on the election of Konrad Gęsieraz as vice-starosta, he challenged this resolution to the Provincial Administrative Court in Opole, requesting its annulment. It is therefore realistic to assume that any decisions made by the district board with the participation of Mr Konrad Gęsieraz are subject to an irreparable legal defect. The legal consequences of this state of affairs can, of course, be extremely serious, which the county council does not take note of by standing a wall behind Konrad Gęsieraz, rather than calling him to resign or immediately suspend his duties as a member of the board. Councillors of the PiS and PSL coalition in the Namysl district, you defend the lost cause. You had the chance at least to preserve the remnants of the class that Mr. Konrad Gęsierza permanently destroyed. I ask the political power of Konrad Gęsiarz and the author of the district puzzles of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski to take responsibility for the situation and cause the resignation of his pet. I have some warm words for your Opole Voivodeship, Adrian Czubak. True, you had a long decision line, but the sum of the summarum you behaved like a voivode, a lawman, and not just a law and justice officer, was right. Maybe you'll make people out of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Hello and glory to the unbreakable soldiers! Hello and praise the heroes! On 1 March, tomorrow, at 3 p.m. 16.30 at the Old Market Square in Chojnice the third march of memory of the cursed and steadfast soldiers will begin. I invite you to participate from the Seym tribune. Unfortunately, due to tomorrow's duties, I will not be able to attend the march. For several years, the day of March 1 is the National Day of Remembrance for Soldiers of the Invincible. The legislative initiative on the adoption of a new holiday was launched in 2010. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland. The idea of establishing a holiday at that date, on 1 March, was put to sleep. Janusz Kurtyka, President of the Institute of National Remembrance. On that day in 1951 a death sentence was executed on seven members of the 4th General Board of Liberty and Independence: Łukasz Cieplinski, Mieczysław Kawalac, Józef Batorym, Adam Lazarowicz, Franciszek Błażej, Karol Chmiel and Józef Rzepce. Soldiers cursed were soldiers of the Polish post-war underground of independence and anti-communist, who resisted the Sovietization of Poland. The number of members of all organizations and conspiracy groups is estimated to be 120 and 180 thousand. persons. Last member of the resistance Józef Franczak ps. Dolls were killed in a manhunt in Majdan Kozic Górnych near Piaski, Lubelskie Voivodeship. It was 18 years after the war, on October 21, 1963. Among the soldiers and activists of the anti-communist underground were among others. General Emil Fielddorf ps. The Nile, who died on 24 February 1953, Jerome Dekutowski ps. The dam which was shot on 7 March 1949, Danuta Sidzikówna ps. Inka, a paramedic who died on 28 August 1946, not yet 18 years old, Major Zygmunt Szendzielarz ps. Łupaszka, who was murdered on 8 February 1951, Witold Pilecki with various aliases, among others. Witold, who was murdered on May 25, 1948. The people's authorities treated them like traitors. Rtm. Witold Pilecki, the forgotten hero of the Auschwitz camp, was born in 1901 in Ołońc. He was the captain of the Polish Army cavalry, as well as co-founder of the Polish Secret Army and soldier of the National Army. He was a prisoner and organizer of the resistance movement in Auschwitz, one of the first to create reports about the Holocaust, hereinafter referred to as Pilecki's reports. After many, many years there is decommunization of street symbols and names in Poland. As part of this decommunization of the street names, the Pomeranian voivode gave one of the streets in my town, Chojnice, the name of the rtm. Witold Pilecki. Hello and praise the hero rtm. Witold Pileck! Hello and glory to the heroes of steadfast, cursed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u431	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 7 years March 1 is a unique date in our calendar. On this day we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed, established by the Act adopted in 2011 on the initiative of President Lech Kaczyński, who submitted a draft law in the Sejm on 1 March 2010. On 1 March, the day of the murder by communist oppressors in 1951 in the Mokotov prison of members of the 4th General Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence, is the day when Poles pay special tribute to soldiers of the second conspiracy. It is with satisfaction to note that due homage and respect is shown to soldiers who are steadfast especially by the young generation of Poles and not only on 1 March. Recently, in many places in Poland, various events and celebrations devoted to restoring good memory of solid soldiers have been organized all year round. They take place, among others. in Rzeszów at the magnificent monument of colonel. Łukasz Ciepliński and members of the 4th General Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence, which was unveiled in 2013 on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Łukasz Ciepliński. Recently, February 9th, I had the honour of attending an extraordinary ceremony organized at the National Army Museum. Augusta Fielddorf, Nila, Cracow. During the quarterly gallery of the cursed - free people nothing will not break nearly half a thousand people, mostly young, applauded heroes - cursed soldiers: colonel. Tadeusz Bienkowicz ps. Hands up, Major. Stanisława Shuro ps. I'm overseas and I'm out of here. Wenceslas Honoria ps. Black. Those well-deserved veterans who at the ovations were solemnly brought into the room by soldiers 3. The Podkarpackie Brigade of the Territorial Defence Forces, which bears the name of colonel. Luke Ciepliński was moved by the attitudes of young people. During this ceremony organized in Cracow by the Quarterhouse Foundation, the Curses, Miles Publishing House and the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons were awarded two important prizes: the award. Sergeant. Józef Franczak and their prize. Michał Krupy - the last two soldiers of the post-war anti-communist underground. A commemorative award awarded for outstanding commitment to restoring the memory of Polish heroes to Poles after the war, was awarded to Tadeusz Płużański, the head of TVP Info publicist and the president of the Konjazka Foundation. The prize, whose patron is Michał Krupa, is awarded for artistic achievements aimed at restoring memory of the cursed soldiers. This year, Konrad Łęcki, film director, was awarded this award. A touching patriotic event during the gala was Leszek Tchaikowski's concert and Paweł Piekarczyk's reading of the flu of Łukasz Ciepliński by actor Dariusz Kowalski. I was very pleased to receive the award by the organizers of the "Friend of the Quartermen" title. Gala of free people nothing does not break it begins to join the annual calendar of the best Polish patriotic events. I congratulate and thank the main organizer of Mr Kajetan Rajski's patriotic gala, editor-in-chief of the quarterly "Which is Cursed." Hello and praise to the heroes cursed by the communists - soldiers unbreakable!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u433	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u434	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, the housing problem in Poland concerns very many citizens, who for various reasons are unable to purchase and pay for the property housing. Therefore, under the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, municipalities are obliged to allocate social housing. If the person concerned does not pay the landlord a flat fee, then the municipality is obliged to pay compensation to the property manager. According to the current facts occurring throughout Poland, it is the municipalities that focus on all costs associated with the citizen's eviction. Unfortunately, in this situation also the Living+ programme is not a rescue for the poorest, because the rental and redemption cost of up to 24 PLN/m2 per month for many people is still an unattainable amount. As the municipalities do not have enough social housing and the people suffering from poverty are still increasing, the spiral of the costs of the municipalities related to this problem is still getting excited. Citizens can't afford to pay rent, and municipalities don't have social housing, so they have to pay compensation to the building manager. Therefore, I would like to ask from this point of view to lean on the problem of many municipalities in Poland to pay attention to the economic and logistical shortcomings of the law. They asked me to do that, among other things. residents of Stalowa Wola. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-28-sejm-59-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 1 March 2018, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19]]
