ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of the second agenda: consent to a national referendum by the President of the Republic of Poland. On 20 July 2018, the President of the Republic of Poland submitted to the Senate a draft order for a national referendum. The Senate Marshal sent a draft order to the Legislative Commission to present an opinion on the matter. The draft order of the President is contained in print No 933, and the opinion of the committee in print No 933 A. I would like to welcome the representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. Welcome very cordially to the Minister. I ask the Minister to speak. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Formal conclusion. You're welcome. Excuse me for a moment, Minister. You're welcome, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski has a formal motion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the work on this item should take place in the presence of representatives of the State Election Commission and a representative of the government responsible for determining the date of the local elections. I therefore ask the marshal to order a recess in order to ensure the presence of these representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Senator Martynowski wants to speak now. You're welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[But he didn't know it yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u4	Of course I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u5	You're welcome, Senator. [[Repeat. I object.]] Thank you very much. We are voting on Senator Jan Rulewski's motion. Who's in favor of the motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 62 senators voted, 21 votes against, 40 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Senator Jan Rulewski's motion was rejected. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u6	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, I have the honour to present to the Senate of the Republic of Poland the President's proposal to hold a national referendum on the subject of a change of constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland entrusts the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland to a nation which exercises it by its representatives or directly. It should be stressed that the national referendum is now the only effective instrument of participatory democracy enabling citizens to directly decide the fate of our homeland. Nearly 30 years after Poland regained its full sovereignty and after more than 20 years of the basic law, it was time to give its citizens a vote on the issue of the most important question of the need and direction of changes in the state's system and the responsibilities of the Republic towards its citizens. There is no doubt that the President's proposal is unprecedented, and no one has ever asked Poles what constitution they want before working on changes. The 1997 Constitution was prepared in a different model, by a group of lawyers, adopted by the National Assembly and only its ready text was forwarded to the public for approval. On 25 May 1997, a referendum took place in which the public with a 42 percent majority of only 52% the votes were in favour of the Constitution. We remember that it was not presented to resolve the referendumary citizens' draft constitution of 'Solidarity', it was not possible to choose between the option presented by the social side and the one which was ultimately a valid constitution and which was the result of the work of the National Assembly. We remember that the parliament of that time was a parliament, which was characterized by the fact that... As a result of the elections in 1993, representatives of groups who received a total of over 30% of votes, including NSZZ candidates, Solidarity, did not enter the Sejm as a result of a change in the electoral order. After 20 years of the Constitution, we are aware of all its shortcomings. We are aware that the constitution has become obsolete in many areas. She could not necessarily have covered issues related to our membership in the European Union, our membership in NATO, because these great events occurred after the entry into force of the 1997 Constitution. We are aware of the various problems that occurred under the interpretation of the basic law. We are aware of the gaps that exist in the Constitution. We are aware that the constitutional dysfunctions were very clear in government and political practice. We have dealt with disputes of competence concerning the determination of the powers of the highest authorities. The President of the Republic of Poland, the Council of Ministers, has faced controversial judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in the eyes of the public, and we have had doubts about the State's guarantee of civil rights and freedoms. With this in mind, last year, during the two hundred and twenty-sixth anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution on 3 May, Mr President initiated a national discussion on the new constitution. He initiated it, also bearing in mind those experiences which were connected with the best Polish essential laws, in terms of the Polish constitutional tradition, whether it be the Constitution on 3 May, whether it is the March Constitution or the March Constitution. The provisions of which explicitly provided that, after 25 years of validity, the Constitution's provisions would be reviewed, that there would be a moment to reflect on whether these provisions correspond to the socio-economic reality or are appropriate to society's needs. If the law does not meet the requirements of modern times, the law must be changed. After the President's speech, a social and information campaign began together with the Constitution. The wide public consultation included open meetings held in individual regions of Poland, organized by the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland in cooperation with social organisations, local government, trade unions, employers' organisations, universities and media. Many opinions and proposals came to the firm from various backgrounds. The employees, employers, entrepreneurs, self-governments, scientists, parents, young people, i.e. all those who wanted to turn to the President's Chancellery on matters that are extremely important for the future of our homeland. We listened to voices appearing in the public debate, the voices of experts, publicists, politicians. But for the president, the most important thing is that this proposal to change the constitution, the need to change the constitution and the directions to change the constitution according to the principle of national sovereignty. These are issues, decisions that should be put first and foremost in the hands of citizens. It is citizens who should say whether such a change is needed and in which direction it should go before politicians begin to change their constitution. I would like to stress that open regional meetings were meetings that anyone could attend. There were local government officials, representatives of social organizations, experts, including constitutionalists. These meetings were always attended by an expert of the President's office, whether it was Professor Dariusz Dudek or other constitutionalists present in this Chamber. They always took place at a high level of substance. These meetings were characterized by full openness, anyone interested could take part in such a meeting and could take the floor, and meetings, as I said, took place in all Polish voivodships. The course of the campaign and the discussion confirmed the President's conviction that the answer to the question of what constitution do we want? Every citizen should have an impact not only on whether the constitution is approved but also on what its content will be. The broad social debate has identified areas for possible changes and then prepared a list of referenda questions reflecting all the most important proposals; I would like to stress this very clearly. These questions which were originally raised at the meeting of the National Development Council, and those which are finally presented to the High House in the draft order for a national referendum, these are questions of Poles, these are questions which come from meetings which come from discussions, from speeches by representatives of society as to what changes should be made in the Constitution. The subject of referenda questions are constitutional matters, and therefore cases of particular importance to the State, which justify a national referendum under Article. 125 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is of a consultative nature. The answers to questions will help to establish directions, and in some cases even the potential content of a new or revised constitution. On the basis of the results of this referendum, further legislative steps will be taken. According to Art. The 67th National referendum law, which clarifies the rules and procedures for its implementation, shall immediately take action to implement the binding outcome of the referendum in accordance with its decision by issuing normative acts or other decisions. If this is the will of the citizens, the President, as the initiator of the debate, will feel obliged to prepare a draft amendment to the existing Constitution of 2 April 1997 or to draft a new basic law, taking into account the detailed results of the consultative referendum. Only so prepared a draft law amending the Constitution will the President submit to the marshal's staff for further work, in accordance with a special procedure for amending the Constitution, which is provided for in the article. 235 constitutions. If Parliament wishes to do so, the Constitution will be amended by a law adopted in the same form by the Sejm by a special qualified majority, at least 2/3, and then by the Senate by an absolute majority. The next stage may be, which is also the result of the article. 235, holding a referendum approving an amendment to the Constitution. This will make Poles aware that it is their own constitution, designed, discussed and adopted with the participation of all citizens who want to express their opinion on this matter. This is a model of social law-making, that is a model of law-making that has never been applied to a fundamental law before, but which assumes from the beginning the participation of the public in this procedure, from the discussion of certain problems, by the expression of the nation or the constitution at all to change, to answer particularly important, important questions. And only when we have specific directions, when Poles dictate to politicians what the constitution is to be and to what extent it is to be changed, would experts proceed to further work, would there be a procedure related to the work of experts, with the work that takes into account those votes expressed in the referendum. And after some time, perhaps around the century of the March Constitution, a draft amendment to the basic law would be presented, which would, of course, be followed by an article. 235. And as we know, the constitution in the article. 235 states that if a change to the Constitution were to concern whether it was a matter of political issues, whether it was a question of freedom and human and citizen rights in a country or a procedure for amending the Constitution, it would also be possible to hold an approval referendum, another referendum which would close the process and confirm that this national-led constitution is approved by the nation. A series of referenda questions raises a fundamental question about the need to adopt a new text of the basic law, to amend the Constitution in force or to leave it unchanged, which will lead to the failure to work on constitutional changes. If the voters are in favour of leaving the existing constitution unchanged and the majority of voters are in favour of the need for change, the answers they have given to the next questions will of course also have legal significance. Every question, and in particular the first question, is a multi-option question. The referendum law states that, in the case of such a question, the decision is made in such a way that, if the majority of the votes cast are validly in favour of a specific answer, it prevails as a national decision. So here we have 3 options: either the Poles will speak for a completely new basic law, and then the president will present such a proposal; or they will vote for the amendment of the 1997 Constitution, and then such a change will be made in accordance with the answers to the second to ninth questions; and if it is the will of society to stop working on the amendment of the Constitution, then of course such work will not continue, because the sovereign should decide on this matter. The second question concerns the introduction of a mandatory national referendum at the request of at least one million citizens. The outcome of the referendum will be binding when at least 30% of the voting rights are involved. The referendum is the most democratic form of rulership directly by all citizens of the Republic of Poland, whereas in the current legal state decisions on its organisation are left to Parliament alone. The holding of a referendum is optional and depends not on the citizens, but on the decision of the Sejm or the President, who must then obtain the consent of the Senate. We want to ask Poles whether the possibility of initiating a national referendum and deciding on all matters of major importance for the state should not, however, be put into the hands of citizens. A reduction in the attendance threshold will serve to strengthen the referendum institution so rarely, unfortunately, in use. We want Poles to consider whether a referendum should not take place, or should not take place, in such a situation when a million signatures are collected, that if such a request is received, the referendum will be binding if at least 30% of the voting rights take part in this referendum. The idea is for society to have a real tool, to be able to speak about important changes in particularly sensitive social issues, in matters that affect our daily lives, regardless of what profession we have and what role we are in. To answer the third question concerning the shape of executive power, voters will be able to vote in favour of maintaining the current model of execution or for changing to a presidential or office system. The result of the presidential system is the strengthening of the constitutional position and competence of the president elected by the nation in general and direct elections. The head of state then heads the government and is responsible for the exercise of executive authority. The election of the cabinet system would lead to the strengthening of the constitutional position and competence of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers, and the President would be elected by the National Assembly and would retain only the ceremonial and representative powers. The third question is also a variant question. We can leave the current model in a crazy inconsistent way, a model which is expressed in the current basic law, as the one that Poles consider appropriate, or we can reform the state's system in the direction of effective power, either towards a presidential system with the strengthening of the powers and position of the President, then maintaining the election of the President in the general election, or in the direction of strengthening the position of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers, but then with such indication that the President should be elected if he is to perform a ceremonial and representative function, by the National Assembly. Because today we are dealing with a certain dysfunction or inadequacy that the President, who has an extremely strong mandate, a mandate from the general election, has no competence A number of experts point to this. . corresponding to this strong mandate coming from the selection of Poles. The fourth question concerns the constitutional standard of choice for Members of the Sejm. There is no doubt that the choice of the right model has an extremely important impact on the way Parliament works, having a direct impact on the quality of Polish democracy. The choice of one option will allow: the introduction of majority elections taking place in one-mandate electoral districts, leaving the current choice of Members in multi-date electoral districts in a proportionate system, or the introduction of a mixed system in which some Members would be elected in a majority system, while remaining in a proportionate system. That's a very important question. This question arose during meetings with the public, so that we could decide in the general vote whether this formula for the election of Members of the Sejm should be a model for the past, i.e. the choice in a proportionate system in multi-ndat districts, whether it should be a model of one-mandate electoral districts, or whether we want to introduce a mixed system, and it should also be a matter in which society speaks directly, and not necessarily politicians decide for the nation. The fifth question, particularly important, concerns the emphasis in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on the importance of Christian sources of Polish statehood and the culture and identity of the Polish nation, the possible introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, not only to its recitals, but also to further normative content, the reference to over a thousand-year-old Christian heritage of Poland and Europe as an important source of our tradition, culture and national identity. This is a response to the current trend of retreating from traditional values and blurring cultural and historical identity. Today in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland we have an appeal to the Christian heritage connected only with the context of culture. And we want society to consider not the formula as it is today. Today, the constitution in the preamble states that we are grateful for the culture rooted in the Christian heritage of the nation and human values. We are talking about the fundamental emphasis on the importance of Christian sources of Polish statehood and the culture and identity of the Polish nation, which is treated and recognised more widely, but there is no law without value. This reference to axiology, to a certain pattern, is particularly important here. The sixth question concerns the constitutional standardization of the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union and NATO, respecting the principles of state sovereignty and the primacy of the Constitution. It would be possible for citizens to provide an affirmative answer to eliminate the current lack of comprehensive regulation of Poland's participation in these international organisations, its bases, objectives and legal implications for the state and the system of legal sources and the status of the individual. Relations between the Republic of Poland and the European Union and NATO should be shaped so as not to violate the principles of sovereignty of the Republic of Poland and the principles of primacy of the Constitution. The Constitution today except that it contains the provision of the article. 90, such a general European clause, which provides for the possibility of transferring powers to an international body or an international organisation, does not contain a regulation on the relationship between European law and national law, does not refer in detail to those very important issues that affect the life of each of us, does not include the European Union's law source in Chapter III, the European Union does not appear in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland at all. We remember that the constitution was adopted, entered into force in 1997 before Poland joined NATO, which took place in 1999, and before Poland became a member of the European Union, which took place in 2004. There is no doubt that the standardization of membership is a real need, which was raised and which was also the subject of the work of the Polish Parliament. Let me remind you that President Bronisław Komorowski presented a proposal to amend the Constitution, which contained a special European chapter. We are talking here potentially even about two chapters or areas of the Constitution in which these changes could occur, one would concern our status and relations, as I said about Polish membership of the European Union and the other would concern NATO. And it is not as it is sometimes said, as it is given to the public, that this is about entering some permanent membership. I will point out that many constitutions contain such solutions, even if the French Constitution refers to relations with the European Union. This is a matter of normalizing membership. Today, this membership also determines our position in the international arena. These are important things. Poles have the right to know, without being lawyers and opening Chapter III of the Constitution, which law applies to us and on what grounds. Questions related to Question 7 are particularly important and were a postulate of the Polish villagers and a postulate, which was also expressed at the meeting, a great debate about the Constitution, jointly about the Polish village in the Central Agricultural Library. This is a question of guaranteeing the protection of Polish agriculture and food security in the Constitution. Today, except for the article. 23, which states that the country's agricultural system is based on a family farm, in fact there is no regulation that refers to the problems of the Polish village, which would refer to the status of villagers, which would refer to food security, which would refer to such an important sector of the economy as agriculture. The tasks related to agriculture, land ownership, agricultural production, guaranteeing healthy and free from pollution and harmful substances of food should be among the main tasks of the public authority as set out in the Basic Law. This will oblige the legislator to establish appropriate legal requirements for producers and suppliers to guarantee food safety at all stages of production and marketing. The eighth question concerns the constitutional guarantee of the protection of the family, motherhood and fatherhood, the inviolability of acquired rights of the family, such as benefits from the 500+ programme, and the right to special health care of pregnant women, children, disabled people and the elderly. Guaranteeing the integrity of rights directly in the Constitution The acquired families will strengthen their status by guaranteeing their legal, financial and health security. This will make the economic situation of families independent of the political will of the successive governing teams and ordinary legislators. Care for family status, acquired rights, emphasising the special role of mothers and fathers in the Polish society, as well as the link to this guarantee of access to free health care for the most deprived Poles are the foundations of a solidarity society in the welfare state, which is primarily based on the principle of common good. I would like to stress very clearly that these issues, which are included in this question, are the subject of a very deep expectation of Poles that there will be no possible changes to the law that would be introduced without their will, which would violate the rights granted to families and individuals. Besides, a certain measure of how you work is the concern that people with disabilities face, the concern they face with family problems and whether they support or promote their families. There is no doubt that the commitment to support the family should be a priority for every government, for every parliament, and this should be a commitment that no change of law in this area, which is a change in minus, cannot happen without the consent of the public. A positive answer to Question 9 will guarantee in the Constitution the special protection of work as a cornerstone of the social market economy, in addition to freedom of economic activity and private property, and solidarity, dialogue and cooperation between the social partners, and consequently the special protection of the right to retirement acquired at the statutory age of 60 for women and 65 for men. There is no doubt that human work is such a huge cultural and civilization value, including in terms of socio-economic development, that it deserves constitutional protection. On the other hand, the question of rules for the acquisition of pension rights is a fundamental social issue which is of particular importance to all citizens. In order to ensure specific protection, the right to retirement may be introduced e.g. the requirement for a qualified majority of votes necessary for the adoption of a law providing for a change in the retirement age. We had this kind of situation in Polish political and political practice, that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who did not talk about it in the election campaign, after winning the elections, said: I will raise the retirement age for Poles. 80% the public was against this change, millions of signatures were collected to hold a referendum on this matter. This referendum did not take place. The case went to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Tribunal found that, although there were six separate sentences, there is no provision in the Polish Constitution today that would allow such a change to be inadmissible. And many times in that judgment there was a statement that it was derived from an article. 2, as a rule of democratic rule of law, the principle of protection of acquired rights, trust in the State and its law, as well as the protection of acquired rights, is not applicable here. You don't have to be a lawyer to say that this situation wasn't fair to society. 80% Poles opposed the increase in retirement age and the same 80% Poles supported the presidential initiative to restore the retirement age 65 years for men, 60 years for women. And contrary to what is sometimes said in wrong comments, it is not about entering the retirement age into the Constitution of the Republic of Poland or to enter into the Constitution, as we have said, the benefits from the 500+ programme, only need to be guaranteed constitutionally. What does that mean? It must be guaranteed that there is either a referendum to make such a change, or we are dealing with a special qualified majority in order to make a change in these matters. If the public so requests, we will have a general vote through a referendum. If the amendment fails, the decision shall be taken by a qualified majority. One last question, ten. The question, which is a demand of local communities, concerns the need to introduce into the Constitution the division of local government units into municipalities, powiats and voivodships. The structure of the local government has a powerful influence on the position and development of cities and villages, and therefore its formation should be left to the decisions of the members of the local government, i.e. all citizens. We are aware that the second stage of self-government reform was carried out under the 1997 Constitution. The Polish district system was restored, local government was introduced. This did not require a change of constitution. Similarly, it would potentially not require a change in the constitution as regards the levels of local government. And now the question is, shouldn't this be the decision of society? Shouldn't society decide if it's behind the three-level structure or if it's behind another model? This question can be answered by "yes', it can be answered by "no', but it would be the decision of a nation which would have cut through the many years that have been going on, probably since 1999, to discuss whether or not all solutions related to administrative reform have been relevant. This is also due to the need to root Polish local governments and decide whether we want to Petrify the current structure, whether we want it to be preserved flexibly, as it is today. In its decision, ladies and gentlemen, the President has set a referendum date for 11 November 2018. It is difficult to imagine a better way to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence than to allow Poles to express their sovereign opinion on the directions in which the Republic of Poland should aim. In order to allow as many citizens as possible to comment on this provision, a referendum would be held on 10 and 11 November 2018, i.e. a 2-day referendum. This is due to historical experience, but also to a specific context as regards 11 November. We remember that the only Polish referendum with an attendance of more than five percent, which took place, was the 2003 accession referendum. This referendum was attended by almost 60% Poles, but it was a 2-day referendum. The referendum shall take place between 6.00 and 20 p.m. 00 if this is a 2-day formula. Without trouble you can imagine celebrating the century of regaining independence in all formulas In the context of public, religious, local and local celebrations and finding half an hour of time to go to the referenda place, cast a vote and decide on the future of Poland and the future of Poles. And the context of the century. A prominent Polish historian told me yesterday that he thought it was a reference to Polish patriotism, a reference to the fact that we, celebrating the century of regaining independence, want to celebrate this century with the expression of the nation on the Constitution, is something that will trigger Polish patriotism and which will also promote attendance, because patriotism is inscribed in our hearts. And I'm convinced that the conscious procedure of pointing out this date... This is a deliberate procedure, because there is nothing more significant than the expression of the nation in the general vote in constitutional matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that the State Election Commission is prepared, as is the National Election Office, to ensure that local government elections are conducted efficiently and reliably and that the referendum is conducted efficiently and reliably. As the experience so far shows, more than three months is sufficient to carry out all referendum activities, as confirmed by the consultations and discussions so far, including the discussion held by the President of the Republic of Poland with the Chairman of the State Election Commission. I, too, have had the honour and pleasure of meeting with the chairman of the State Election Commission several times. There is no doubt that we are dealing with different regulations. We have a different regulation as regards the National referendum law and a different regulation as regards the electoral code. We have practical experience of holding a referendum on the basis of the 2003 Act and there are no obstacles to a 2-day referendum on 10 and 11 November 2018. Referring to the words of a prominent constitutionalist, present here in the Chamber of Professor Dariusz Dudek, I would like to say simply: the institution of referendums and changes or discussions are not aimed at today's fundamental law. On the contrary, they serve the authority of the constitution understood more deeply than merely in terms of a document containing a set of rules, pushed by a certain political majority and supported by a very large group of citizens. The referendum is about a fundamental law as a true work of a sovereign nation and a legal expression of its conscious will and respect for values and principles deserving of protection of constitutional rank. It does not mean limiting the role of citizens' statements to a future decision, yes or no, it is not based on the assumption that the participation of citizens in the exercise of authority is merely symbolic. On the contrary: this path, this road, this referendum actively engages the nation in the process of political reflection and co-creation of its constitution, giving the nation a real influence on the determination of directions and even the content of the fundamental law. The practice so far has shown that it has sometimes been tried to bring the role of referendum into an illusory, institutionally depreciated role and has often been treated instrumentally. The High House's agreement to hold a consultative referendum on the need for a revision of the Constitution will undoubtedly reverse these trends, giving the nation the opportunity to make a direct, sovereign and fully democratic decision about its own country. I appeal to the senators not to be afraid of democracy, so that you do not fear the people's words, so that you do not fear it... [[Applause]] ...that directly the nation... I appeal to the Senators of the Civic Platform, who in 2015 supported President Bronisław Komorowski's referendum initiative after President Bronisław Komorowski lost his first round of elections and applied for the votes of Paweł Kukiz's electorate. At that time, you were hard on the referendum carried out on the basis of the same provision of the Constitution, Art. 125. You wanted to ask a similar question, a question about one-mandate electoral districts. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I trust today is the whole Civic Platform Club that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u7	Don't disturb me, Senators of the Platform. Please behave calmly. [[Voice from the room: But it's not for us.]] [[Exactly.]] [[But it's over there, it's that way!]] Keep your emotions under control. [[Emotions are on the other side.]] [[Voice from the hall: There are lambs...]] You're welcome to control your emotions, Senator. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I trust...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Keep your emotions under control. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. I am very sorry, Minister, on behalf of the Senators of the Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u8	I accept your apology. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Some Senators of the Platform.]] I trust that those of you who, with such determination then, in a situation questionable to many, questionable to the public, as confirmed by the result of the referendum, were then faced with the lowest turnout in history, which did not reach 8% The right to vote... [[We won't make that mistake again.]] I trust you will support this referendum today. Because I was very sad to see that during the discussion at the meeting of the Legislative Committee at the first minute, in the first speech in the discussion, Senator Bogdan Klich, president of the Civic Platform Club, said that you would vote against. But the senators, according to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are guided by the good of the nation and their decisions are sovereign... [[Yes, sir, of course.]] ...so I'm hoping there'll be some reflection here. In view of all these arguments, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, I ask the High House to take a positive examination of the request and decide to agree to hold a referendum by which all citizens of the Republic of Poland will be able to comment on the most important issues. The future of his and our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Minister, I ask you to remain here because there are questions, I know that. I don't know if the Minister has anything to write about... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: If I may, please...]] You're welcome. And a card for the Minister, please. Mr. Senator... At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... Mr. Secretary writes it down, please... [[Yeah, yeah, I signed up with the secretary.]] If someone's already signed up, they won't raise their hand. I'm asking you to do that. 'Cause it's a little confusing, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: What about me?]] No, the senator didn't sign up. Senator Florek signed up? [[Yes.]] [[Jackie.]] Senator Jan Rulewski has already signed up. That's the second time you've... [[Thank you.]] Senator, don't make farce and jokes, take the High House seriously. We deserve it. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome. Minute questions, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u10	The question is this. You cited here an example of President Komorowski's referendum. Yeah, that's right, that referendum failed because of turnout. I am afraid that your initiative may also turn out to be such a turnout failure, and that will be a serious problem for the President. I'm even ready to support your proposal if you want to give yourself such trouble, well, I have no reason to disturb you. But I would like to ask you how you intend to act to raise this potential turnout. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first the commentary. I'm sure the Minister realises that the majority in the Senate has the Law and Justice, so that it would be wise, logically speaking, to ask the other side of the room to support your idea of what did not happen at the committee meeting. Three questions. How can the provision on the protection of the disabled translate into an improvement of their existence? Who will decide whether support at today's level is sufficient or whether it should be increased? Because the record itself... You can argue that there's support... [[Mr. Senator, question. Because your time is up. Yes, I'm asking you a question.]] Is there... [[Not a comment, just a question.]] But I've already asked the question: how do you... Well, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u13	There were comments, questions, comments again. Your time is up. Thank you very much. It's been a minute. We're gonna follow the rules, and that's pretty drastic. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Excuse me, sign me up...]] [[Do you want me to sign up for Senator Pociej?]] Minister, the first question is, is there a danger of conflicting terms? There is no government representative who would guarantee that this collision will not happen, and this has been the result of Senator Martynowski's adventurous request, which has prohibited participation in the meeting of the government and the State Election Commission, so I must ask you this question. You have not mentioned this, and there is a legal, organisational, infrastructure threat to the holding of a referendum on these days or in the vicinity of the days scheduled for local elections. It's being written by the State Election Commission, you're just talking about meetings. I want to know if there is a guarantee that these elections and this referendum will go smoothly. And another question. Do you believe in these abilities of all of us to realize in almost one day or in a few days a civic duty to choose a few representatives to self-government and... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. Thank you very much...]] ...answering 10 referenda questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you a question which was already raised at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. The sixth question is whether you are in favour of the constitutional rule of membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union and NATO... etc. I would like to ask whether such a task of question means deciding whether Poland should be a member of the European Union and NATO, because such suggestions were at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, or whether it is possible to include our membership of these institutions in the Constitution. And is this constitutional regulation of membership of the European Union and NATO taking place in other European constitutions? The Minister said, among others, about the French Constitution, but is there such a regulation in other constitutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u17	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Senator Lightning. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, at least for now. Namely what you will say, Minister, on the charge which I also hear from the voters of Law and Justice, concerning on the one hand that the questions are so arranged that there is some inequality in constitutional matter, i.e. some, for example. The question of whether we should live in the presidential system or in the cabinet system is indeed fundamental questions, and some questions, for example. Save membership of the European Union and NATO... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking you a question, because the minute is almost over.]] Good. So this is about the inequality of referenda questions and how you explain it. And the second question about this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u19	Mr. Senator, it's okay. It's been a minute. [[Good.]] You'll sign up for the next tour. Senator Alexander Bobko. One minute, ladies and gentlemen, is in force and we will follow this very carefully. Senator Bobko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u20	Minister, I have a question... [[You're getting ready for Senator Komarnicki.]] I have a question about what efforts the President's Office has made and what further plans it will take to discuss the changes to the Constitution... [[Sign me up.]] [[In order, Janek, don't disturb me.]] ...was universal, cross-party, in order to encourage the opponents of today's parliamentary majority, the environment so far not involved in the parliamentary debate. Because, in my opinion, despite the consultations you were talking about, this discussion over the course of the year did not fully implement such a need.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u21	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Senator... Okay, now Mr. Senator Komarnicki, and then Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my first question: do we know exactly how much the referendum will cost and how the costs are estimated? My second question is: why is the idea of voting in a two-day referendum and how much will the costs increase? And my third question. The PKW also points out that the overlap between the electoral campaign and the referendum campaign, which may be conducted by other actors, will lead to problems related to financing and settlement of 2 separate campaigns, i.e. electoral and referendumal. How would you like to reconcile that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u23	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One question for now. The Minister mentioned in his speech that this is why it is 11 November, in order to raise the celebration of the century of regaining independence. My question is: how do applicants imagine that there will be silence in elections or referendums when there are any elections or referendums, when there will be ceremonies throughout the country, there will be celebrations in all municipalities, and because of what option will the mayor or president be able to refer to the referendum and express their opinion in their occasional speeches? Because I'm afraid that then the preservation of the electoral silence, which is either a statutory requirement, will be some kind of fiction, and the campaign will in some sense disturb the holiday, because it will express some emotions and discussions about this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u26	Minister, two short questions. You turned to the Platform, calling for a positive vote. Tell me: how will the PiS vote? Do you know that? And second question. Yesterday, the order of the proceded points in the Senate was changed abruptly. The first point was the motion for a referendum, the second point of the judicial act. The order has been changed and today we have a referendum case, and yesterday we were dealing with the judiciary. Is it related to conversations... [[Mr. Marshal, it doesn't concern you. The question doesn't concern...]] ...between the PiS and the President's office or the President's office?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u27	You may not answer, Minister, because this question does not concern this issue. Excuse me. [[Voice from the room: Chairman of the Platform...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Florek. You're welcome. This question does not concern a referendum, absolutely, do not answer that question. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[I'm talking about the referendum talks between the PiS and the President's office.]] Mr. Senator, no one's asking about your conversation. There you go, Mr. Senator... [[But this is about a referendum.]] [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to calm down, okay? And it's about following the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Senator Rulewski was right about the presence of members of the State Election Commission at this meeting. And why, I'll tell you right now. Well, we're changing the electoral law. We will change the electoral code at this meeting. Recently, in connection with the local elections, we have changed the electoral code twice. Without amending the electoral code, it is impossible to bring the national referendum law into line with this electoral code. Without amending the electoral code, this referendum is impossible. Minister, since the Senate does not meet until the end of September, it is practically impossible to make such a change unless we meet on an additional date. I therefore have a question as to whether it is possible to hold this referendum without changing the law in force. If you say that it is possible, then it is necessary here to speak to the members of the State Election Commission... [[Thank you very much.]] ...because as far as I know, they have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you to respond to these questions and to ask for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u30	Of course, once the High House has taken a positive decision to organise a national referendum, we will launch further actions in the framework of the social and information campaign. So this campaign is already envisaged as a plan of action of the Presidential Office of the Republic of Poland. We are convinced that social organisations will be involved in this campaign, as part of this multiplication effect. We know that there are many demands for specific environments. For example, I will mention the trade union environments. The trade union was very active in the debate. Some written questions met with the approval of local government officials, associations of local governments. There is also a great interest in the question of protection of Polish agriculture. I am convinced that this national debate will cover many different social groups, that it will take place in Polish media, in Polish homes. Of course, the law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland, as part of its resources and resources, also reserves a certain financial resource, an organizational resource. He's still working at the law firm on this referendum. The chairman of this team is also present. We are determined to ask these important, important questions. It is crucial that these questions reflect the will of Poles to reach out with information about what their meaning is, what the meaning of these questions is, to find out that the answers to these questions are particularly important for the future of Poland and Poles. And I am convinced that there will be an interest in this referendum. So, in answer to Senator Libicki's question, I trust this referendum will take place at high attendance. And now I answer Senator Pociej's question. Of course, I was addressing everyone, but because the most emotional contact he made with me at the moment of my speech, the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to honor you by addressing especially those senators who responded vigorously to my words. This appeal was, of course, addressed to all 100 senators, all who are present here. You decide how this constitutional procedure will be... [[We're priests to democracy.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] I hope that these votes for the referendum will fall here. As regards the conflict of local elections and referendum dates and the complexity of this matter That's how I understood the senator's questions. The date of the referendum is determined by the President of the Republic of Poland. It has been reported for at least a year that the referendum will take place within this deadline, namely 10 and 11 November. As far as local elections are concerned, they are managed by the President of the Council of Ministers. Well, it's based on art. 371 §2 of the electoral code The President of the Council of Ministers will decide when the local elections will take place. As you know, there are 3 options today: the first round of 21 October. At that time, the vote would be re-voted on 4 November; the first round of 28 October - the second round of vote - would be on 11 November; the third option - 4 and 18 November. We already know that until now the President of the Council of Ministers has not decided when local elections will be held. I trust that if you decide now that the referendum is to take place on 10 and 11 November, the Prime Minister will take this into account. As for the question of whether this referendum can take place, there is no doubt that it can take place. The National referendum law is directly applicable here. There is only a reference to the proper application of the provisions of the electoral code, but proper application means that only in so far as something is directly not regulated by the National referendum law, and only if there is a need for such appropriate application, which in practice can mean that the provision is applied with modifications. Well, to answer as simply as possible, I would say that in my opinion there is no doubt that a referendum can take place. As regards the reservations of the State Election Commission, this is one case which, and I admit, would cause certain organisational, logistical difficulties. This would have been the case if the High House had decided to hold a referendum on 10 and 11 November that the second round of elections would be on 11 November, i.e. the vote would be on 28 October and the second round on 11 November. And here's what I'm going to tell you: from my knowledge, but also from the knowledge that the public has, this is the least likely term. Here I will remind the leaders of the Law and Justice, who have said very clearly that they do not plan to conduct a second round of voting in the field of local elections on 11 November, i.e. this type of potentially possible situation is the least likely. It would be possible to hold a referendum and elections, only that it would then take place in two other legal regimes with considerable organisational difficulties. [[The bill forbids.]] This regime is defined: other committees, other premises, other voting hours, etc., etc. Moving on... As regards the question of Polish membership of the European Union, there is no doubt that this regulation is simply lacking. We have no regulation in this regard today. On the one hand, we have an article. 8, which states that the highest law of the Republic of Poland is the Constitution, but on the other hand we have a very indeterminate provision of the article. 90, which during my speech I have already quoted, which provides in general that the Republic of Poland may, on the basis of an international agreement, delegate the powers of the authorities of the state in certain matters to an international organisation or an international body. And here are very relevant questions from Poles. What does that mean in some cases? What kind of cases? On what basis? Can all competences be delegated at all? Does this limit us in terms of self-determination on specific issues? And, of course, there are situations in European practice that differ in European regulations: not directly in the constitutions of Denmark, Greece, Spain, Slovenia, directly in individual provisions in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany and Ireland, a special chapter e.g. in the French and Croatian constitutions, separate constitutional laws in Austria, Lithuania. We know that certain countries respond in a specific way, they standardise this issue. So what was said here during the debate is that it is ridiculous that it is unnecessary that it reminds someone of something from the 1970s... There's definitely something wrong with someone and it's not right to reason. Because if you look at this, you will see that many European countries have done this reflection. There was also such a debate in Poland, only that due to the principle of discounting Parliament's work, these works were not completed by any decision. I have a feeling of discomfort today. Because I'm going back to the fact that if you open Chapter III of the Constitution, the sources of law, you're going to read the Constitution, the laws, the ratified international agreements and the regulations and It's in the mouth. 2. acts of local law. And where is the European law mentioned here? Well, you have to be a lawyer, you have to have the knowledge that we are referring to European law, you have to decide what the order is, what the order is. And we know from practice that many countries care about it. Of course it is, as far as European law is concerned, but as long as it is consistent with the overriding values expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That's why the president wants to put this question to the people's decision. Because the decision on membership was a decision taken by the nation in a general vote in the 2003 accession referendum, but there is no detailed regulation in this regard in the Constitution. We have no regulation at all, let alone specific issues. As far as the Professor's question is concerned, of course, these questions reflect the will of Poles. And those are the questions... One can say that the first four are questions of a systemic nature, such fundamental nature. The further part of the question contains issues that I would absolutely not ignore, which are not of less importance. Because the fifth question concerns the sphere of axiology, which is extremely important when it comes to establishing any legal standards. The sixth question is the question of Poland's membership in the European Union and NATO, and the questions are from the seventh to the tenth. I'm gonna say it straight. These are the demands of the Polish society, these are the demands of the Polish people. It was extremely difficult to choose so that this list of questions was not too extensive. But I'm also responding to Senator Rulewski's voice. I will say that I believe in the wisdom of Poles. I firmly believe that Polish society is able to decide, consider and decide in such a way that it will be binding for politicians, which will also be a commitment, in particular, to the President of the Republic of Poland, to perform in the manner of art. 235 with an initiative to amend the Constitution, if that is the will of society. A very appropriate question about the participation of the general, cross-party. Of course the intention was to invite everyone. We discussed this at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. I was talking about it. I even have this list with me, after reflections from yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Commission, showing that the invitations were addressed to PSL, whether it be to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz or to Senator Jan Rulewski; yesterday I personally sent this invitation to the senator. There were invitations addressed to the people of the left. Or to the constituency of President Grzegorz Schetin to appear in Kielce and participate in a debate where President Kielce, Professor Dariusz Dudek and I, as the President's representative, had the honour of debating. Invitations were directed, in few cases opposition representatives appeared, I am talking about active policies. I remember such a meeting in Rzeszow with Mrs Łukaciejewska. In many cases, on the same days when open regional meetings took place, there appeared e.g. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. The Civic Platform youth sometimes protested before an open regional meeting. I invited her in, she didn't always come in. There were situations. They were active Polish citizens and representatives of the CODE, participated in open regional meetings, very often the same ones I saw on TV at meetings of politicians of Law and Justice. Sometimes they were so determined to participate in the discussion that the same activist appeared in 4 or 5 locations in Poland, wanting to speak in the discussion. And we made it possible. It's obvious. And I'm fully convinced of that. That the decision of the senators to order the referendum and the participation of Poles in the referendum will resonate for the entire political life in Poland for many years. I am convinced that if a significant proportion of Poles go to a referendum and vote in favour of a given solution, then naturally political parties, in a natural way social organisations, will refer to what will happen in the people's statements. And that will determine our political lives. The President of the Republic of Poland will certainly invite representatives of all political forces sitting in the Polish parliament, representative trade union organisations, representative employers' organisations, local government, etc., to prepare a draft amendment or a new fundamental law. There's no question about that. We hope that this discussion will then be of a national nature. There was a question about the costs of referenda. I can say that according to the State Election Commission of 5 February 2016, the costs of the last national referendum in 2015 amounted to PLN 71 million 600 thousand. This was a 1-day referendum, thus generating less costs than the two-day referendum now announced. That's the main difference. For me there is no doubt that democracy is a priceless value. If we are talking about a great country, located in the centre of Europe and attached in an unusual way to democracy and freedom, this is a bit rhetorical for me. Of course these costs are, but it is necessary to bear them. The same as when elections take place and these costs have to be borne. There's a referendum going on. These costs must be borne. And I'm convinced that well, wisely chosen questions, approved by the High Senate, this is the key for high attendance and for Poles to take part in this referendum. As for issues related to referendum campaigns, local government campaigns, there is no doubt... I trust in professionalism here, and I see the Minister, the head of the CWB, present at the Senate meeting... Of course, every election and every referendum is a challenge when it comes to organising legal issues in terms of technical issues. This is always a big and important thing, because it is a great celebration of democracy, but also an absolute holiness in democracy, because Poles decide, Poles vote, in case of whether it's a referendum or a local election. But of course these problems are to be overcome. Many times this law has been applied in practice We are talking about the provisions of the National referendum Act As we discussed, in 2015, but also earlier, for example in 2003, because the law was adopted before the accession referendum and was already applicable. Hence the reference to a 2-day referendum. I am convinced that this is an effective profession tool, to put it simply, one that allows Poles whether on Saturday the 10th or on Sunday the 11th vote and decision. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... Well, I accept the assumption of good faith. Well, the laws must be followed. We have a clear regulation from the electoral calendar. This is due to the referendum calendar, that is due to the provisions of the National referendum Act. Well, no one's supposed to be agitating in the last 24 hours before the vote. We are talking here and about the silence that will cover the day before, and issues directly related to the course of the vote. The whole legal system is built on the assumption of good faith. I trust that no one will break the law, and if the law is violated, the proper services and bodies will respond. This should be a decision that comes from the discussion to say political but political in the sense of reasonable concern for the common good. Because we want to ask Poles. And there's nothing wrong with someone wanting to answer the question, yes, and someone wanting to answer the question, that someone will want to choose the presidential system, and someone else will try to convince them to go to the office. I believe that all this referendum debate and the social and information campaign so far I hope that Poles are also following today's debate It leads to an increase in public legal awareness, leading to the fact that we are really discussing the Constitution. And that's very important. That's the value. beyond appreciation, also in the context of the century of regaining independence. Of course, the President of the Republic of Poland spoke with the main forces and addressed invitations to various actors in relation to the referendum discussion. It is not true that there are any suggestions for any agreement on the outcome of the vote. The senators are in their vote unreservedly, sovereign. Of course, everyone will make a decision. There is no doubt about it. What one of the senators pointed out yesterday in the discussion in the Legislative Commission, that today we have a constitutional model, that this is a co-decision procedure. If the President were to manage the referendum on his own. This is also one of the demands that arose in the public debate during the constitutional discussion, which would be ordered, but today we have a co-decision procedure and there is a draft provision for a national referendum. He's in the hands of the High House, in the hands of the senators. I sincerely urge your senators to support this draft resolution, but of course, what is natural, every decision of the High Senate will be respected. About the issue: the electoral code and the referendum... It'll be very short, but it came up in a few questions. First of all, there are 2 different regulations in the National referendum Act of 5 January 2011 and in the National referendum Act of 14 March 2003. As I said, only in cases not regulated by the referendum law is a reference to the proper application of the electoral code, which means that some apply without any modification, others need to be modified and others do not apply at all. It's just like that. The electoral code. Thus, the code only applies complementaryly, where required by the referendum law, to fill in a certain gap. But above all, the referendum is organised on the basis of the provisions of the National referendum Act. Issues related, for example, to the composition of the committee, to the election commissioner's tasks, to the rules for the delivery of cards and other issues are issues that do not need to be addressed to the electoral code at all, because this matter is regulated separately in the referendum law. I was talking about the deadline. The President proposes And it's been known for many months on November 10th and 11th. Local elections are managed by the President of the Council of Ministers. On specific issues related to the referendum voting procedure under the provisions of the National referendum Act... One thing. If you open a constitution at all, please note that we have a distinction between elections and referendums in the Constitution itself. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 3 we have an order to regulate the rules and procedures for reporting and holding elections and the conditions for the validity of elections, and Article. Paragraph 125. 5 of the Constitution is the provision on the regulation of the principles and modalities of referendums in the Act. And this is the law I'm discussing, the 2003 law. What's the referendum vote like? The additions outside the grate do not affect the validity of the voice. The referendum shall be conducted by one committee. If the vote is two days, it is a committee composed of 6 to 10 people. We have an estimate of the extra cost. I was talking about that. If the referendum is two days old, it's his cost. It will undoubtedly be greater than the cost of the 2005 referendum. The electoral commissioner shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the local government in preparing and holding a referendum. The Commissioner delivers the ballots. The circuit boards are calling the ghetto. The men of trust and their deputies will be appointed. We have a list of entities that are entitled to operate under the provisions of the referendum campaign law. This referendum is justified by the interests of the Republic of Poland. In my opinion, it is worth giving Poles the opportunity to decide the most important matters, about matters concerning the Polish Constitution. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I didn't get the answer to the second question I asked.]] [[Voice from the room: It's in writing...]] Disabled protection. Excuse me, senator. If the marshal agrees, I'll answer in one sentence. Few people noticed this, but already on 3 May 2016 during his speech at the Castle Square the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda spoke about the fact that he is unsatisfied with statutory practice and the real level of support for people with disabilities under our legislation. He spoke at the time, referring to the article. 69, the need to consider amending the Constitution in this regard. We know that these regulations are contained in the provisions of the article. 68 and 69 Polish Constitution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 68 We have a very general directional standard, which states that public authorities are obliged to provide special health care to children, pregnant women, disabled people and the elderly. We want to clarify and strengthen these provisions because there are constitutionalist questions here: what public authorities and what actions? We would like this to be an accurate indication of 4 categories: children, pregnant women, disabled people and elderly people... We would like this to be expressed even on the basis of subjective law. We want a clear strengthening and real legal guarantee, which would also reflect the will of the people expressed in the referendum to support these social groups, especially those with disabilities. Please note that the environment of people with disabilities criticises the fact that in the 1997 Constitutional provision, Article. 69 is the provision of assistance under the Law to safeguard existence. There are not even words of a worthy existence. There is a protection of existence. And the question is: is this a satisfactory level of constitutional protection for people with disabilities for us? It's not even a minimum minimorum anymore. This is, in my opinion, far from enough as regards the rights of persons with disabilities. Please also note that the nation's decision... It's also a matter of public speaking, Mr. Senator. If society says yes, this is a priority for us, it will be a challenge. I'm sure the High House will be fine with this challenge. And for the Senate, and for the Sejm, and for the government, to make such changes in legislation that will be satisfactory. We know that the Polish government has done a lot on this road, but we still need specific actions. It will be a clear constitutional rule. [[It's not just one row, it's just...]] Not one government, I'm talking about all the governments that have taken action in this area. Respecting the merits of everyone, I can see that the Law and Justice Government and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska also have huge achievements here. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u31	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. First Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. If I may, I'd suggest we cut the rounds short. The first one was, like, 10 people, and the Minister was obviously... It was hard for him to write everything down. I'm not gonna answer the questions. I'll take it back in the middle of a discussion. I have two specific questions. The referendum in this form takes the form of a certain public opinion poll. Isn't it easier to do a big, very large, huge public survey and ask the same questions? Then we'll have similar effects. That's the first question. Second question. Mr. Minister, are you familiar with this, perhaps? The concept of gerrymandering? For the unoriented: this is the formation of one-mandate electoral districts under a specific political force. This gerrymandernig is subject to legal conditions, they exist and talk about not doing so. That's the way it is. France and the United Kingdom. In the context of the referenda question, people will not know whether this mechanism exists or not and will not know how to vote on this question. But I'll deal with it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u33	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in your speech you spoke about this great information campaign that took place throughout Poland. Tell me which towns, cities in Pomorskie voivodship Out of the Tricity These meetings were held.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u35	Thank you. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Many people I have talked to about the proposal for this referendum point to the wording of the questions of the referendum. Of course, these opinions are wise, fluid, but you need to find the essential content of the question among many words used. In a matter of days, at least 20 or 30 people have been receiving such a message. Of course, one thing can be said for sure: that this text is at the level of doctoral work protocol or habilitation cable. However, it seems to me that the same content of the questions could be expressed, except for many words that are usually used in the legal environment and used, say, 1/4 of the words contained. And then there would be no problem understanding whether I should answer yes or not. Is it possible to rewrite the text in such a way that it is shorter and unambiguous? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u38	Thank you very much. Good morning, Minister. I would like to ask why there is no question about the role of the Senate, which seems important. Many seem to think that either the Senate should be eliminated, or its competences should be extended and otherwise incorporated into the system. Unfortunately, there is no such question. Today let us actually realize the one separate, so to speak, the competence of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First, a brief reflection. If we had those first 15 questions that were written here today, I would have voted against and no force would have forced me to... But these 10 questions are completely different, but their content is... There are some very important questions here. The problem is that local elections and referendums are supposed to be here. And I have this proposition: is it possible to do, to agree, that we do one job, but okay? Let's do a referendum on this date, as proposed. In 1998 I remember, because I was the governor of the municipality of Zawoja, the municipal elections were postponed from May to autumn, so the term lasted. Four and a half years, but the world didn't collapse, it was constitutional. Wouldn't it be possible to have a referendum now to settle this issue, and to have local government elections in the spring, six months later? I don't think the world's gonna collapse, and both would be done right. Otherwise, these two robots can be wrongly done. What do you say, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u42	Minister, the first question: have you consulted this idea with the State Election Commission, which publicly expresses doubts? Is it capable of achieving this referendum? The second concerns the ninth question. Where does the Constitution inadequately guarantee the protection of work as a cornerstone of the market economy? Art. 65, 66, 67 are devoted to this issue and I think they are absolutely precise, to the extent that they oblige the public authorities to pursue policies aimed at full employment. So what else? This is a completely vague question, and I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u43	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u44	Thank you very much. Minister, it is no secret that the PiS Senate Club has a certain distance to this. This is proved by yesterday's vote in the Legislative Committee, which is confirmed by Minister Suski's statement... Today, in Polsat News, Minister Sasin said: there is no decision as to how PiS will behave about this referendum, we had doubts and we did not hide it. I would like to ask you if you have any thoughts about where these doubts come from and what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u46	Minister, in your earlier speech, you referred to the wisdom of Poles. I believe in this wisdom, too, and I think that the wiser Poles are, the harder it will be for them to answer such vaguely formulated questions. Because Poles realize that under the terms of the singlemandate and multi-ndat system, there can be many solutions. For example, the bill we are preparing in the context of the parliamentary elections on presidential and cabinet systems can also contain a lot of answers. Don't you think that these questions are too vague for the Poles to believe that when they answer, they decide on a specific solution for the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u48	Minister, I will return to the thought I expressed in the first question. I'd like to make it more specific. The idea of linking a referendum to a century of independence, with such a patriotic space, seems very beautiful and cool to me. But, well, we have a hard time creating a community. And my specific question is: will the President's Office be making efforts And what if, regardless of the referendum itself, will it be or not, we were able to meet together on 11 November at one Independence Day? Because what seems obvious and normal, unfortunately, is at risk, as example was the celebration of the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. Just an invitation, just sending invitations under these circumstances isn't enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u49	Thank you very much. And last in this round of questions, Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two technical questions. First. PKW in its letter addressed inter alia. She also expressed concerns about the merger of both electoral acts, i.e. the elections to self-government and the national referendum. Of course, some of these fears can not be ignored but can be suppressed by separating both dates, but some things cannot be separated. I mean, like... the fact that in both cases, i.e. in the local elections and in the referendum, the timing of the setting up of the regional committees and the timing of their coexistence will be imposed. For the referendum, one regional committee is needed for each district, two for the local elections. We are already experimenting, because for the first time in the local elections there will be two committees, we will have to guarantee members for these committees. Remind me. A committee to count and a committee to vote on. And here you are adding a third commission to us. The question is, will you even be able to find people for this? That's about 750,000 people on a national scale when it comes to circuit boards. And the second question you have already heard from me, but I would like to repeat it so that we have your answer in the minutes. The content of the questions presented by the President and the explanation of this content And they have to be all on the voting card. They take up 4 pages of A4 format. They can't be molded, because of course there must be an appropriate font size, so that the person who reads such a card can understand this content at all. That means a card, a single ballot. Because there is no reference to brochures in the referendum law, it has to be A2 format. Ladies and gentlemen, the A2 format is 4 cards. How do you imagine it would be necessary, because of the provisions of the National referendum Act, to make Brazilian overlays for such a A2 card? That's one thing. Second... Well, the brochure can't be done anymore, because we don't have time to revise the National referendum bill. Then how would you even imagine reading a card like that? 4 pages of the format A4 is read with an understanding of about 5 minutes. There, not only will lawyers vote, ordinary citizens vote. Where these citizens will vote, if we have this election place: table or... well, bureau, 5 cabins and comes after mass 30, 50, 100 people. And each must have 5 minutes to read. Will it be necessary to have a second hall in every polling place, such a peace of quiet learning, where you can sit and read? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't I ask you a simple question as an additional question: were you ever just on the circuit board and you've seen the election look like it's from the point of view of who's holding this election?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u51	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u52	I'll answer your questions one at a time. As for the question of Senator Tomasz Grodzki and the public opinion poll... Well, the importance of universal voting, the referendum vote can't be compared. ..and the legal force, too. With the importance of public opinion polling. The examination of the public opinion has no legal force, it is not binding, it is merely a study. And just as it is, of course, impossible to say, based on polls, that polls are the decision of the nation as to the voting act, it is impossible to replace polls with the fact that we are holding elections, and it is not possible to replace the examination of the public opinion with a national referendum on such a particularly important issue. As regards the question of choice between a one-mandate proportional system... With regard to possible options under the electoral law system, we know that these are all rather specific issues regulated at the level of electoral law. However, we ask whether we want to choose MEPs in one-mandate electoral districts at the Polish Parliament, whether we want to choose them in multi-ndat districts in a proportionate system, or whether we want to introduce a mixed system, known to the laws of many countries, in which we will partially select them in mono-mandate districts, partly within a proportional system. So this is to, of course, but after obtaining the directional expression of the nation. We are not in a position to include the entire electoral law or the electoral code in a detailed referendum question, e.g. issues related to the method of calculating votes, issues related to electoral preferences. The way in which voting is acceptable from the perspective of the interests of this or other political force are all issues that are not resolved at such a level as the referendum question in the constitutional vote. Of course there were meetings throughout Poland. Several times I said that there were meetings in every Polish voivodship, at least twice. I look so, so quickly, that when it comes to the Pomeranian Voivodeship, except that these meetings... For example, in the Gdansk Shipyard's Health and Safety Hall there was a conference with the "Solidarity" entitled "Solidarity." The Constitution for citizens, not for elites. It was the inauguration of the campaign together with the Constitution. Then there was a very interesting, good substantive meeting, health protection in the Constitution. Law or fiction with the participation of representatives of the Gdańsk Medical University. These meetings in various formats and places were very many. Also, during national visits, Mr President continued to visit every Polish county, talked about these problems and talked directly about them with Poles. I am no longer talking about the fact that we have had many expert meetings; this achievement is certainly a few dozens, if not a few hundred total meetings that took place during this year and which were related to the running of the referendum campaign. As regards the issues related to the accessibility of these questions, there were different voices here. There were both voices that the questions were very good, as well as such voices, that questions could be difficult. I see the great role of the social-information campaign here. For me, there is no doubt that once the High House has taken a decision, we will have to launch an intensified social and information campaign, which will also, I hope, involve the senators in the involvement of all those who are active in public life, so that everyone concerned receives information, as these questions determine what the legal consequences are of answering a specific question in a specific way, what the question means. At the same time, I would not share the view that these questions are written in such a highly specialized way that they are incomprehensible. Well, this matter is also such that it is sometimes difficult to express in such a question, which does not refer to the legal language, to the legal language. As for the possibility of rewriting the text, because there was such a request here... Today we decide in the zero-one system. We know that this procedure is so shaped that the High House may agree to a national referendum, or may not agree to this request by the President. With regard to modifications, whether it concerns a deadline, whether it concerns questions, such a possibility for the High Senate Sorry or steak, but that's the decision of the legislator and the legislator It wasn't given. About Professor Wach's question... Of course, the Senate also has a particularly important role in the procedure for amending the Constitution. When we reach the art. 235, we'll see that there's also a one-sounding bill. This is the special role of the Senate. And it is good that in the Senate we discuss these problems, because the Senate is undoubtedly very entitled to talk about constitutional problems. Of course, there was a question in the public debate about the role of the Senate. It is so, Mr. Senator, that we on such an initial list have had these questions over 60, including those that came from meetings. The strength of the matter was... There have been various demands, starting with radicals, which I immediately reserve, I do not share, the liquidation of the High House, I apologize, but you ask, so I answer. After such a general request, especially raised by local authorities, to consider reorganising the Senate, so that the Senate has, in part, a representation of representatives of the local government. This is also a well-known thing in law literature, in publicism, and by politicians considered. That's the kind of voice you've heard. By the way, we weren't able to take all the questions into account, we had to make a choice. Nor was there such expectation from the Senate that I would say to ask a question about the Senate. If these voices came to me directly from the senators, we would certainly be considering them. During my discussions with the senators of this kind, to ask a question about the High House, he did not appear, and here we also wanted to follow the principle: nothing about you without you. Since neither the Civic Platform club nor any other club has made such a request, the President has not considered this question. As for the question of a certain, I would say, the praise of the rewording of questions in such a way that they are better edited... We originally said at the meeting of the National Development Council that this was the starting point that this discussion was to be at the meeting of the National Development Council with the participation of advisors, with the participation of experts, wide-ranging and this would lead to the presentation of these questions. So I thank the senator for appreciating that some work has been done at this stage since the meeting of the National Development Council to prepare a draft resolution. In answer to this general question, not in the context of this particular referendum, because here we have a specific date, which is in the draft decision to order a referendum... You can imagine making changes, or even, I would say, some changes in electoral law should be made if we wanted to talk about the simultaneous conduct of referendums in the future, for example. with the elections to the European Parliament or if we were to settle certain issues relating to the simultaneous conduct of local elections and national referendums, but this is also in the hands of the High House. I mean, absolutely the Senate has a legislative initiative, we can introduce these changes in the Polish parliament, we can change the electoral laws in such a way that any doubts disappear. But under these particular circumstances, I don't feel like I'm entitled to answer that connection because the ball's in the game, right? You have a draft resolution spread over your desktops, you know what the questions are and there is no possibility of modification. The procedure does not foresee that the president changes questions or changes the date during the Senate's proceedings, and I absolutely do not feel entitled to hold such discussions. I also answered the journalists in a negative way when they asked me what would have happened if the High House had not agreed to this, because I am thinking this: there is an opportunity, hope and social expectation, the expectation of society that you would agree to this draft resolution, and then it is such an abstract question for the future. [[Can I ask you a question?]] Yeah, I've said a lot of things about...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u53	But I'm sorry, Minister, I just want to ask you this... I just meant that it's one-time, special, and it's been done before. Is it in this regard Wouldn't it be possible to move the local elections? What's your opinion on this, if any? I know it's not up to you, but I'd like to know what you think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u54	I... [[It's the Prime Minister's call.]] [[What?]] [[The local prime minister decides.]] The Prime Minister decides well here, the senator tells me. As regards the date of the local elections. I'm not familiar with any work... I answer the senator's question directly. No one consulted the President's Office on any proposal to extend the term of office of the local government, and we were not presented with any draft law amending the electoral law so as to allow elections to be held within a single period of time from the referendum. However, we ourselves had this reflection internally, that at the same time holding elections and referendums there would be legal problems to resolve. Senator Augustine's questions. I talked about PKW many times, and during my first speech, and answered the question three times. Question nine. Thank you for that question. What Mr. Senator considers subjectively to be judged is not a postulate that came out of nowhere, that is a postulate expressed by the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). This refers to the citizens' draft constitution, which was prepared by.Solidarity in the early 1990s. We're talking about the article. 20, because when you look at the article. 20, which defines issues related to the economic system... There we have a social market economy based on freedom of economic activity, ownership and dialogue and cooperation of the social partners as the basis of the economic system. It's in the article. 24 issues related to protection, supervision of working conditions, but many constitutionalists, many experts, labour law specialists... Such a discussion was also held in Gdansk, with the participation of Professor Jakub Stelina, Dean of the Faculty of Law and Administration... [[It's all in the article. 65, 66 and 67.]] The senator knows better than the dean of law and constitutionalists? Everyone has the right to their views, but I listen to the voice of the experts, listening to the voice of the "Solidarity..." Well, please pay attention, google the page of Solidarity and see President Piotr Duda's speech from last Friday. Mr Piotr Duda thanks you directly on behalf of Mr Solidarity for this question. Solidarity has been saying this for many years: working as one of the cornerstones of the social market economy; alongside freedom of activity, alongside private property and alongside solidarity, dialogue and cooperation between partners, this is where, as the fourth pillar of the social market economy, work should be. And this is an extremely important change, because it is not only that the change concerns Chapter I of the Rzeczpospolita, this is a change in the rule that establishes our economic system. This affects many further areas, in the further wording of the Constitution The Republic of Poland Work as an overarching value to be protected and further legislation. This is a change of law that is expected by the social side, and that is an appropriate question, which is a mapping of those issues that emerged in the public debate. As far as conversation and consultation issues are concerned... Senator Libicki is not present, but I can repeat what I have already said three times: the Senate will decide. Senators are sovereign in their decisions. I'm counting on this decision to be positive. Too general questions have been raised by the senator... Oh, and such: do Poles understand these questions and do they come to the conclusion that they have support? I don't want to advertise one of the press titles, but I can quote some CBOS research. Among other things, in the CBOS study, which was performed probably in August last year, 80% The Poles replied that they would like to decide what direction to change the constitution before the politicians began this change. So there is absolute social acceptance of the consultative referendum. One of the press titles after the publication of these questions, which appeared at the meeting of the National Development Council, carried out a survey on the representative group of Poles on whether these questions were considered important, important. Representative attempt, 15 proposals. 3/4 Poles thought that all these questions were important, mostly important, or at least half of these questions are important. At this stage, when there were 15. One in four Poles after reading these questions answered that less than half of the questions were important. There have been completely marginal answers, so that there is no valid question at all. So I refer to what was reflected in the research of social opinion, that is, that Poles are interested in this referendum and view these questions as accurate, they enjoy social support. The course of the public consultation also strengthens me. The questions are too vague. There was such a charge or wording. This is a consultative referendum. We're talking about a trial that's written down for months, maybe years. Today is your resolution, then the announcement, the publication of the resolution. We know the terms of the referendum bill, the referendum calendar is an annex to the draft resolution, we know that the referendum would be 10 and 11 November. And only after the results of the referendum would there be further work. Of course, these lines of change are defined, but it is not that we will present a list of specific provisions of the Constitution, how they are to be shaped, that it will be 10 proposals of questions à concerning the content of a specific article of the Constitution. I think the senator will agree that the answer to questions such as: whether the presidential system or the cabinet system, whether to change the constitution or not to change the constitution, or the one-mandate districts, etc. Social rights? Well, social rights are now also an element of constitutional matter. If you open a constitution in Chapter II of Article. 64, Freedom and economic, social and cultural rights, you will see that this is absolutely constitutional matter. If Poles feel unsatisfied, the feeling that some changes to the law have taken place without their consent, and the 1997 Constitution did not protect them against it, they want constitutionally guaranteed protection of certain rights. Mr. Senator, Professor Bobka's question about the connection between the referendum... building a community. Of course, this is a huge role of the constitutional debate. I think it's a national referendum on a constitutional change. that is the rooting of Polish democracy, that is the rooting of the sovereign's decision, the settlement in the general vote. It's also a cross-cutting of certain disputes, because if we're arguing and campaigning, we're gonna vote for it or against something, then... I'm 100% Convinced that each of us will respect the nation's decision. If the people are in favour of maintaining the 1997 Constitution unchanged, we will not change it. If he's in favour of the new constitution, we'll be working on it. These are, in my opinion, ligaments. And this debate is acting, resonating positively. As far as the 11 November celebrations are concerned, it is, of course, that the President inaugurated the work of the National Committee for the centenary of regaining independence. Of course, under this initiative, this committee operates, operates, sets out a plan for the most important national celebrations of the century. The President has appointed a representative for the celebration of the century, and there is close cooperation with Minister Sellin on the ongoing co-operation of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. There is, for example, a multimedia exhibition about the century that circulates, a question related to the Independence Fathers programme, there are many specific initiatives. After all, it was not long before the High House had dealt with the issue of a medal for the century. There's a lot of activity. Do all forces engage equally? I don't want to judge that. The President of the Republic has repeatedly appealed in various bodies, whether at meetings with local government officials or during national visits, or in conversations with representatives of various political forces, so that we may try to celebrate this century in a manner that is most worthy, and this appeal is, of course, valid. Senator Czerwiński's questions were about the content of questions, explanations. I don't have that kind of conviction. Mr. Senator assumes that a person who goes to a referenda place has absolutely no knowledge of referenda questions. Well, I'd be more optimistic about the social-information campaign. [[But there could be people like that.]] There may be, I agree, there may be people like that, but I take the assumption that these people won't be that many. Leading an intensive campaign for 3 months And here's our strong commitment, what I'm saying, looking into the eyes. We will try to explain as much as possible, to present these questions, to point out the impact of the answers, to explain what is the vote for multi-option questions, what is the importance of these questions, what they relate to. And I am convinced that these questions are important, such questions appeared by the will of Poles and it will be easy for us to convince them of their importance. Since 2002 I have participated in every election in some way, I have been a financial proxy for the electoral committee, I have been and have been an active local government official since 2006 - i.e. for 12 years - I have been a local government official, so I have been elected as a Member of the Polish Parliament, I have been a member of the electoral committees, I have been a member of the electoral committees many times, I have been a husband of trust, the person who has supervised, so I would say, from the perspective of the structure, I have also helped, because I am a lawyer by profession, whether I have provided legal advice, I have also been on duty to resolve ad hoc issues on the basis of support of men of trust, or myself as a representative of the electoral committee I have reported electoral lists, registered, etc., etc. Well, in every election after 2002, I played a role, participated. Maybe it's my experience that's not big, it's like seven election acts. I have participated in all the elections and referendums in my adult life, during which I have already had the right to vote. I even participated in this referendum, which was proposed by President Bronisław Komorowski, i.e. I was among those probably 7% The Poles who went to this referendum. I remember a variety of ballots, I remember a large-volume ballot, and I'm sure the senator remembers one too. And, of course, you are right about the volume of this electoral card, also indicating that the explanations you have in your decision will be included there. But I am convinced, for every election, that not only in this election room, but in the next rooms, or when you go to that place where you cast your vote, there are announcements, there is information. There will also be a social-information campaign. These are all things that are to be overcome. I believe that this higher purpose, the voice of the nation in the general vote... Now is the question, Mr. Senator, because this is crucial, that's what we could argue about: would it be better if it were three questions? Some say it would be better, the card would be smaller, explanations would be less, there would be 3 specific, unambiguous questions. The question is, would we then mimic the voice of the society from the social and information campaign? I think that many environments would be unsatisfied: villagers If it weren't for the seventh question, local government officials If it weren't for the tenth question, the union, not just for the solidarity, but for the social side at all, if we hadn't asked... These are the questions behind specific groups, the specific people behind society. And it's just that these 10 questions are an extremely important collection. Overlay issues. The overlay, which is obvious, is adapted to the size of the voting card each time. Question: Is it harder to make a cover now, or was it harder in the local elections? We remember what voting cards looked like when it came to local elections. Of course, it is so that every time the State Election Commission decides what the card and the overlay should look like, so that it is as clear as possible. I can also say that in the case of persons with disabilities there is, of course, the possibility for a proxy to vote in correspondence. The senator has that knowledge, too. The pattern of the overlay is defined by the resolution of the PKW, e.g. In the presidential election, there was only a candidate's number without a name and a grid on the transparent overlay in Braille's alphabet. Well, there are different activities in practice, but that's not the problem. Invincible. Of course, it is very right and important that the Senator raises this problem, but I am convinced that here the experience and knowledge of the members of the State Election Commission, the employees of the National Election Office led by Minister Pietrzak, will allow all these problems to be solved. That's not exactly the question to the President's Office. As I understand it, the senator thinks we're initiating... Of course we've considered it, and it's in our opinion to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u55	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Because this is a very important issue. We are talking about some general issues, I will still have questions about these general issues, but, well, you have to have these cannons, you just have to physically carry out this referendum. I hope that we can also ask questions to PKW representatives, but, Minister, this is a very important issue. Why so many explanations? And then, in the discussion, I'm going to comment on the quality of these explanations. What if that's what makes a sheet like that? All we had to do was ask questions, we'd have a smaller piece of paper, and there wouldn't be any problems. There is one matter that you have not addressed, namely the question of calling nearly 750 000 people to three types of committee. And that's gonna be a problem. Well, you can't run away from these problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u56	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I have another list of questions. [[I'm sorry.]] Senator Ryszka is the first to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Because in our questions, we have legal issues: retirement age, 500+... The Constitution should give general guarantees and not refer to such very detailed legal arrangements, because the future legislator may, for example, change these solutions to an even better one. So why could such concrete solutions not be overlooked? Did you mean, for example. for a social applause, for people to participate in the referendum who would like these solutions to be left behind, as if they were in danger and so on.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] There isn't. I'm not gonna give the floor to senators who sign up later, and then they don't show up. Senator Komarnicki. [[There it is.]] [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] There it is. You're welcome. [[He's always present.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we talk so much about questions, the quality of these questions, we say, wouldn't it be better if they were less, some say: maybe more? Would you be kind enough to tell me who was the author of these questions and if this list of these people... Because this is the essence of the matter, the cross-section, the human... Just don't tell us, for God's sake, he's a sovereign. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u60	Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u61	Thank you very much. Minister, the adoption of the new constitution is urgently needed, and you have convinced me with your arguments during your speech. Besides, for the three terms that I am here in the Senate, I have found that the new constitution is necessary. At the moment, different people interpret things differently. The point is to make it clear. I have a question. If the Sejm does not support Mr President's current motion... [[The Senate.]] The Senate, yes. If the Senate does not support the President's request to hold this consultative referendum, e.g. Because of the deadline, if there are any intentions... Will there be a proposal to repeat this proposal, e.g. Next year in the spring? Because it would be a shame to simply abandon further work on this very important issue of amending the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u62	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I don't want to talk about sheets, questions cards, urns, or cabins, because that doesn't suit the Senate, and I don't think that's the point. I have one fundamental question for you. If you don't mind, I'll make a brief introduction. I think this is very important because we are talking about a fundamental issue, a change of constitution. As for the fact that the constitution should really be read again, look into it and change it, I think we all feel the same way. The fact that the world around us has changed and the constitution must also be able to do so. That's clear. But don't you have a sense, Minister, that there are few important elements missing in preparing this referendum? First of all, in my view, this referendum should be at the very end of a very serious public debate that would last for years, perhaps throughout the term of office of President Andrzej Duda. And I agree with the opinion that it is the head of state that has this authority and such tools to hold such a national debate. What did I miss? I'm also asking if you have the same impression. Well, shouldn't it be that... at the very beginning of this debate, the President shouldn't have met with the former presidents, the former prime ministers, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, the ministers of justice, i.e. the people who were in practice subject to the Constitution, were actually on a daily basis with this constitution, and ask them for their opinion? These are people who have their authority, achievements, come from very different political backgrounds, actually come from different parties. Such a dialogue between the President and these people would, I think, be very valuable and would bring a great deal to such a discussion. The second thing that I didn't see, Minister, is that... Mr. President, in a very weak way, maybe I didn't see it, but since I didn't see it, he invited you to cooperate in a weak way, to discuss the constitution of the opposition. It is not really possible to conduct a serious debate and change the constitution in national harmony without involving all political forces that can create a stable majority to change the constitution in the Polish Parliament. Third case. The Constitution, like every law, is an act very complicated and difficult to understand for all of us, for me too. You are a lawyer, well prepared, also a practice, but for example. I'm not and not all the rules are understandable to me. Don't you think there weren't enough meetings, not enough information on the role of the Constitution in general, on possible changes, on the whole process of investigating these changes? The fourth case, which is also important. You didn't use it at all, whether it's you or the President, with your own government at your disposal, e.g. Ministry of Education... You didn't use it in a very reliable way, with constitutionalists, lawyers, judges, to carry out an information campaign at universities, high schools, where there are young people who acquire electoral rights, to exercise these rights freely and vote in favour of changes to the Constitution or against them. If the whole debate, the discussion, no longer wanted to talk about further details, was carried out, the President, as a leader in this project, as a person who has authority, has a place in Polish politics, as a leader talking about a change of constitution, would come up with some own idea and finish the whole process of discussion and negotiation. Perhaps then, for the first time in many years, some agreement could be built on important fundamental changes in this constitution. Don't you think it's missing? And because that's what's missing, today we have this discussion, not another discussion, including the questions of the Senators of Law and Justice, who are obviously not very much in favour of this referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to refer once again to question six, specifically the second part of the question. The sixth question concerns the constitutional standardization of the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union and NATO, respecting the principles of state sovereignty and the primacy of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would like to refer this to the article. 90, paragraph 1, which you have already quoted here, namely: Rzeczpospolita Polska may, on the basis of an international agreement, delegate the powers of the authorities of the state in certain matters to an international organisation or an international body. I would like to ask whether the issues raised at the meetings organised by the President were the failure to include in the 1997 Constitution respect for the principles of state sovereignty and the primacy of the Constitution. If so, how was it assessed? Is there any mention in the other European constitutions that you have already mentioned here about the primacy of national constitutions? Of course, if you have that knowledge... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u67	Thank you. Minister, in accordance with the law of the referendum, it is required to approve changes to the Constitution. I'm from Wielkopolska and I'm counting costs because I'm quite cost-effective. As it turns out, Americans are also economical. I have a reference print in front of me, obviously not filled out, here to fill out the date of August 19th, so I can show it. Oh, it's a reference print from the state of Florida, from Miami. There's obviously a code bar on the side, there's a code bar on the return envelope for identification, there's a signature that needs to be folded. There are 12 questions here. Mr. Czerwinski was just asking... This card is a little bit longer than A4, but it can be beautifully folded. There are 12 questions here, two more than in the referendum proposed by the Minister. The answer is simple. There's no circle, there's just such an oval shape, such an ellipse, and this ellipse needs to be painted. And nothing else. Paint it, put it on and send it back. Encoded, very simple, all citizens who live or leave, but also outside... The deadline for sending this card back is August 28th. And there's no problem with what Senator Czerwiński was talking about, because you can read, read and then paint the right place at home. Minister, I am convinced that the Law and Justice will support this referendum. I have no doubt that you will do this, for some reasons, which I will not explain now. But if something happened accidentally, don't give God, then, Minister, I recommend it. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: And no money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: what will the President do next after the referendum with a dilemma that may arise? In the first question... First question, paragraph 3: Are you in favour of leaving the Constitution unchanged? And what if there's a positive result, and if there's a fourth question in point 1, there's also a positive result, and it says that we're behind one-mandate circles? How will it be connected then? What can be done? What can be done about it then? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Calm down, please. Mr. Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u71	Minister, because you mentioned that I was invited to consult... I have now spoken in the senate consultation, but this consultation did not concern political parties, Minister. You didn't meet with the opposition. You didn't meet with the Senate opposition either. That's your business. I'm just paying attention. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: There was never an invitation...]] [[The voice from the room: You didn't invite me.]] We don't organize... If we were holding a referendum, we'd definitely have you. They invited us, but we're not organizing, so... [[Voice from the room: Interested in organizing this.]] Interested in organizing it. It follows that you don't care about our votes. But now I have a question... Because the most important point of these questions is the third, systemic, key, and fourth, which concerns electoral systems, possibly changes in electoral systems. And the third question is so formulated as to get the right answer, Minister, because the first part is this: are you behind the presidential system? And that's point 1. Point 2: behind the office system? Point 3: for maintaining the current model of executive authority? To this I note, Minister, that in the case of these 2 questions in question three, i.e. the presidential system and the office system, there is development, there are explanations of what this means. The presidential system is a strengthening of the constitutional position, the role of the president. The cabinet system strengthens the constitutional position of the President of the Council of Ministers. And in the case of the question of maintaining the current model of executive authority, there are no explanations that are in the two previous questions. And the current system is a parliamentary system with a strong presidential position. The fact that this third question has not been developed, as well as the order of questions, clearly indicates the expected answer. I understand that the President is about strengthening his own power or introducing a presidential system, but this is a referendum and questions should be relatively neutral. In the fourth question concerning the electoral system, point 1 of the one-mandate electoral district, the majority system... Of course, this is not explained. Next: a multi-date electoral district or a combination of these two methods? This point 2 is a question about multi-ndat electoral districts that is a question about maintaining the current electoral system. Why are there no clear criteria for the wording of these questions? The other questions, as you said, are a certain concert of wishes. The union wants it, that's what we do; someone else, e.g. The farmers, etc., wish for something else, so we do it. Such questions may be, but these are not fundamental questions, as you have pointed out. The third question and the fourth question are fundamental questions, especially the third question, which is a systemic question. I understand that's what the president's after, not getting answers to the other questions. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski...]] My question is this: why are these questions uneven?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u72	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's leave the technique. Some people are afraid of them. And let's talk about basic issues. This referendum, as you yourself call it, is to be a consultative referendum, but that is, formally speaking, not in the Constitution. It's about amending the constitution, it's about art. 90 about the delegation of powers to an international body or organisation, it is also, as the title says, in matters of particular importance to the State. And that's what we use here. Yeah, but there's an art in that chapter. 67, who tells us what's gonna happen if we make it... I also want this to be a referendum. 3 adjectives important, binding and conclusive. What does that mean? Well, then we'll all have to take some action, but we'll have to take some action. We read the questions... So what do we have to do? The questions aren't about... Consider e.g. Question seven. It is not easy to ask whether you are in favour of protecting Polish agriculture and food security. No, no, this question is otherwise formulated: are you in favour of guaranteeing this protection in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? And all of them... It's either a constitutional guarantee or a constitutional regulation. What does that mean? That the act implementing this referendum would simply be the adoption of a constitution. Am I right? Yeah, I guess so. Okay, now let's take a look at the art. 67: the competent national authorities shall immediately take action to implement the current outcome of the referendum, in accordance with its resolution, by issuing normative acts or by taking any other decision, but no later than 60 days after the date of publication of the resolution on the validity of the referendum. Are we gonna be able to issue a constitution in 60 days, announce it? [[Of course!]] [[Voice from the hall: What is this for you?]] That's a question for you, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I'd like us to leave an answer to the Minister. And second question, much more fundamental. I understand it's not gonna be like this, of course... If the referendum is binding, decisive and important, we will try to establish a new constitution. The question is, based on what? About the article. 235 of the Constitution currently in force, whether a new law will have to be adopted or whether it will have to be amended. 235 to pass a new bill? These are actually three possibilities. Which one are you in favor of? And a little argument, which one of them... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u74	Senator Spider again. [[Voice from the room: Again?]] [[Andrzej, you're...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One last question. On the occasion of this referendum, we touched all the authorities, not all of them. There was a question about the presidential system, about the JOWs, about the elections. What about the court, the courts and the judiciary? This is how I look at Montescius and Frycz Modrzewski's statements. First of all, they warned against judges being judges for life and talking about choice. And it's not being realized, and so many centuries ago, they've been talking about it. We complain about the judges, we know what the courts look like, and there's not a single question about the judicial authority. Thank you very much. [[A voice from the hall: Do you not give a beating?]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u76	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u77	I will begin by answering the first question that Senator Czerwinski has yet to address. Of course, this is an objective conclusion that we will be dealing with, if this were to happen, that these dates are in such a temporal correlation as we foresee, and that will be so, because I understand that if a referendum is ordered, it can actually be a situation that committees, when it comes to elections, will still function and there is no possibility of sitting at the same time in both committees... I understand it in such categories, as I said before, that this is a kind of commitment, also an act of patriotic manifestation: I want to be a member of the committee and engage in a thing that is extremely reported from my perspective, from the perspective of future generations. This is a fundamental decision when it comes to systemic changes in the Republic of Poland. So I am convinced that the interested parties will come forward and these committees will be filled, with between 6 and 10 people in the case of a 2-day referendum, as provided by the referendum law. There's over 30 million voting rights. Yes? So this scale... Poland is a big country and I am convinced that we are able to manage. In one sentence, when it comes to the question of clarification... Of course, the card must include questions and variants and information on how to vote. It shall constitute an Article. 20 referendum laws. Explanations on the subject of the referendum are optional information. You can consider the situation that questions and explanations are going to be 2 cards, you're right, Mr. Senator, that it's not going to be 1 card, but these are all things that PKW... [[Voice from the room: It's PKW to this...]] Yeah, these are the things that the PKW does, like I said, that's PKW activity, and I'm pretty sure the PKW can do that. Now, the question of Senator Ryszka regarding issues related to 500+ and retirement age. We are not talking about constitutional regulation 500+ or constitutional regulation related to retirement age. As you read these questions, it will be clear that we have a constitutional guarantee in the eighth question, from this question begins, in the ninth question, the constitutional guarantee of special protection, and at the end of this question, decimal, purchased at the statutory age of 60 for women and 65 for men. It's about the right to retirement. Here is the question of defining after the decision of the nation, which means that we are dealing with constitutional guarantees. As an example, we have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that such a constitutional guarantee could be a qualified majority, I have spoken of it, but it could also be the introduction of a mandatory referendum at the request of citizens to change the law as regards issues relating to family rights or issues relating to retirement age. So, contrary to what some media and some commentators have mistakenly reported to the public, it is not a matter of literally writing 500+ into the constitution or literally entering retirement age into the constitution, but of making the decision in this case rational, not on the basis of: I have a majority, a simple majority, which allows any activity on the basis of the law, and I make changes, I do not ask the public for opinions. This is either a cross-party agreement with a qualified majority, or even a nation's agreement on issues related to universal voting and referendum. To the question of Senator Komarnicki, I answer: of course, the sovereign, of course, that the sovereign, that the nation, and of course, that these questions reflect the will of the nation. As far as the President's decision is concerned, As you can see The final form of the questions was presented personally by the President of the Republic of Poland last Friday, so the President approves these questions, approves them. He has empowered me as his proxy for the referendum, and I have the honour of being authorized to appear before you. Well, there has always been such a practice that one of the presidential ministers represented the President in the debate, but these questions, ultimately endorsed by the President, were co-created mainly by Poles: more than a thousand completed consultative surveys that we collected, several thousand letters in which constitutional issues were raised, several hundred speeches which were directly mentioned about constitutional matter, hundreds of hours of recorded meetings with Poles, some proposals for ready-made legal changes, ready-made constitutional changes, etc., etc. In the internal sense, I will say that Director Paweł Janik was present in the Chamber, who was the chairman of the team for the preparation of this whole project. There is director Margaret Paprock, who together with counsel Olga Kazalska She also participated in the work of this team as one of the members. And here he is, last but not least, Mr Dariusz Dudek. It was a bunch of prominent constitutionalists. At various stages, this group changed, but you have been involved in this work since the beginning. Indeed, many people have been involved in these processes. You could say there were dozens of them. They were also prominent sociologists. These questions were also discussed with the president's advisers. Well, there are dozens of people who directly co-created this team. Of course, I also had the privilege of participating in this work. The will of the nation is mapped here. I wouldn't be afraid that... it kind of offended me. I don't think that was your intention. Your Marshal used the phrase "wish concert." It's not a wish concert, it's the will of the nation, it's the will of society. Of course I'm not ashamed of it, I'm not afraid to admit it. Yes, the Poles reported expectations, and we tried to map these expectations as closely as possible, including very important and fundamental social issues. As for the question of repeating the proposal or any other action that you asked Senator Dobkowski about... Mr. Senator, with all due respect, I wouldn't like to make speculations that could make my speech understood as accepting that the Senate might not agree. I can answer such questions at the end of the vote. I trust we're not at this stage. I trust that the Senate will agree to this proposal, because I think that would be the most appropriate solution. Now it's an extensive question of Senator Napieralski. This is one of the fundamental disputes between the vision or the proposal that the senator put forward and the proposal of the President, because we are talking about the reversal of a paradigm, a pattern, we are talking about a model of social law-making, and the senator has put the idea that the referendum should be at the end, as was the case with today's situation when the proposal was approved, drafted and put to the vote. Our idea is different, our assumption is different. The President clearly points out that we want to talk about a constitution that is being prepared with the participation of the nation, and we want the nation to participate from the beginning in this process. Hence the annual debate in this area, hence the broad public consultation. We, of course, also had the pleasure of talking in person, for which I thank the senator, and of exchanging comments on this constitutional matter. Was there no openness to the opposition? Those invitations were directed. Well, I can argue gently with the marshal again. I invite Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz in writing, I invite President Grzegorz Schetyn in writing, and you tell me post factum that you had to send this invitation to the Civic Platform office. Well, I think if the marshal wanted to be a part of it, you'd accept the invitation. If Mr Schetyna wanted to meet, he would have met us. Well, given the absurdity of it, I should look for a registered cell that deals with correspondence, go there criminally, and say I'm asking for a meeting. Well, Mr. Marshal, we respectfully approach all partners. I'm counting on the Senate to take this resolution. There is no doubt to me that there will be repeated invitations In advance, it's... it's... I declare And for Mr. Marshal, and for Mr. Bogdan Klich, and for Mr. Counselor Piotr Ziientarski... I would still be able to exchange for a long time. Well, it is clear to me that if the Senate makes this resolution, we will seek a discussion, a conversation with all those who represent Poles, and certainly those who sit in the Polish Parliament, have the title to have this conversation with them. And we will want to talk to the greater group, also with the non-committal forces. This is a great challenge to work on a new project. The current head of state in the context of previous former presidents... Let me put it this way: we were not given such an opportunity, because just after the President announced his initiative to hold a referendum, i.e. the expressis verbis on 3 May 2017, statements and statements of some former presidents, which, I would say, were very confusing the idea of a referendum. These were quite hard statements, indicating that they do not see the need to participate in such a project, they will not encourage Poles to participate in this referendum, they believe that this is a wrong way. After such a press enunciation or a public statement, when someone speaks, I do not accept this way, I think it is wrong, wrong, I will not engage in this project, it seemed that allowing such a debate was very difficult. And I'm sure we both know that such statements have taken place. Information action. I take this critical remark because there was always something better to be done. The full agreement that it could have been wider, you could have tried... There is a paradox in the issue related to the referendum campaign, because on a good case we will only be able to start the referendum campaign when the Senate adopts a resolution. I will not tell the secret because it was mentioned at the meeting in the Polish Parliament, saying that in the budget of the President's Chancellery certain funds are also reserved for the launch of radio and television spots, for the further press campaign, for the organisation of meetings. We are jointly planning a great conference on the constitution to be held in the autumn, September or October. We want to hold meetings in the framework of an expert debate, etc. etc. So the whole plan or schedule, together with the booking of funds for this purpose, is foreseen, only that the condition for this whole procedure is for the Senate to adopt a resolution, because then we are 100% sure that the referendum will take place. Then we'll be able to drive in a stronger way... Here's what I'm gonna say. Specialists, professionals in these areas advise very unambiguously: the last two weeks before the referendum will be crucial. This is the moment when the public will focus on these problems, and this is the moment when this information should arrive. Of course, as I said to Senator Czerwiński, we are going to run this campaign for 3 months, in August, September, October, but there is no doubt that, for example, in terms of mass media, television, the Internet or radio issues, the few weeks before the vote is the time of a particularly intense campaign. We were doing it rationally anyway. I respect the senator's voice regarding a kind of reversal of this convention, but I disagree with him. I mean, I accept that this model of public law making is unprecedented. There have even been press comments that the President is making a breakthrough here. There is a scientific article by Professor Dariusz Dudek in the Legal, Economic and Sociological Movement, where the Professor also writes about it. I have the conviction that the idea is completely democratic. She's just saying that society speaks at every stage. There was a question about the situation of the answer to the first question. That's a question of yours. That's when there's most of the answers to yes. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, you asked Marshal Marek Borowski about this, too. If, in answer to the first question, the majority of important votes are that we do not continue, and this is what was also mentioned in the speech by Marshal Borusewicz... It's a question that... I would like to give you this third option of the answer precisely, where we are talking about the fact that further legislative work will be discontinued. Thus: for leaving the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 unchanged. This question justifies the fact that there will be no draft amendment to the Constitution, there will be no further work. If, in the case of the first question, answers from point 3 prevail, the work will not continue. And why someone can turn that question around and say, "But there are questions from the second to the ninth." Because if it turns out that most Poles will reply to the new constitution or will reply to the amendment of the existing constitution, then it will be necessary to give an opportunity also to those who wanted to leave the constitution unchanged, to know how they will deal with these specific issues. In the majority's opinion, yes, we are making a change, but we do not want to exclude the remaining votes from these answers. The matter of disrespect... Here a similar wording was used in relation to the relationship of national law, European law, as regards the primacy of the Polish Constitution as regards issues related to detail. Of course, during the meetings there was an increased need, such a very strong will. And I don't know if it was the most frequently raised issue. It's about respect for our sovereignty. The senator correctly grasped this in the context of the article. 8. It is about the subjectivity of Poland, the subjectivity of Poles and the indication that the Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. It seems to me that there is no doubt and society clearly raises and supports these issues. We are talking about strong Poland in a strong Europe. Of course, we are in favour of membership of the European Union, but with emphasis that Poland must be subjective and that Polish law is the law which is the highest law as regards the fundamental law. As I said, we have a situation that if the constitutions of the Member States regulate issues of European law, and in many cases they do, they will admit That's the rule. First of all, the law of the European Union over the laws, but not over the essential laws, not over the constitution. And so it is in the Constitution, e.g. Lithuania, Malta, Romania and Slovakia. Well, you ask very precise questions, and this is such a quick analysis... the Constitution of Cyprus gives priority to the law of the European Union over the entire legal order and thus over the constitution. So that the Cypriots went in that direction. The other constitutions of the Member States do not regulate the relationship between European Union law and national law. It can be said, on the basis of more examples, that the Constitutions of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic align the position of European Union law with the most important acts of international law, i.e. Contrary to the case law of the ECJ, the Court of Justice of the European Union It's a law of lower rank than the constitution of the state. We know the caselaw of the Federal Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, in which the so-called. the concept of Solange, i.e. such a conditional priority of European Union law As long as this law has the primacy as long as it does not violate the principles of the basic law of the Federal Republic of Germany. This was also referred to the evaluation of the Treaty of Lisbon. In 2011 the Polish Court adopted a review of the compatibility of the European Union's subsidiary law with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So that these issues are raised and discussed in Europe. It is not that only Poles do this or that only the Government of Law and Justice has begun to consider this kind of problem. And there were such voices: as this, it does not agree, it cannot be done, why such reflections? Well, these are considerations that are being held all over Europe today. These are judgments of constitutional tribunals, these are provisions of specific constitutions, and these are dilemmas related to the combination of these orders, as lawyers say, in a multicentric system of sources of law. And these are important things. As the senator rightly put it, the citizens of the Republic of Poland want to watch their subjectivity, and they want the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland to be emphasized. I seem to have answered the question about whether... There is no further work and no further activity of the President in the case of a "no change' response. Voting is important if the majority wants to change. The questions that followed... Okay, okay, okay, okay, I think I said... [[No, Minister. You haven't answered my questions.]] I'm already looking at the notes, I'm sorry... [[It was about...]] ...I've got it. [[...of the third proposed question.]] I've already found it. I have no conviction that this is a question, Mr. Marshal, which is sort of aimed at giving a specific answer. Of course, I would have been a hypocrite if I hadn't told you publicly from that stand that I did, I was in favour of the presidential system. I'm in favour of the presidential system because I think this is the most accurate, most appropriate model. Politicians can have different views. I don't know what you think of the marshal. Perhaps the marshal supports this model, which is modelled today in the 1997 Constitution. [[Yeah, that's the model I support, but I know how it works, and there's no explanation here.]] I'll say it like that. First of all, it is not that we personalise these debates. If we say that a change of constitution would take place about a century after the entry into force of the March Constitution, it would be 2021. The question is, when would these new constitutional rules come into force? So it is not that the President presents the solutions of the promo sua, thinking of his personal situation as the present hub of this office, which is the highest office in Poland, the office of the President of the Republic of Poland. And when it comes to issues relating to the settlement, this is a question that, in my opinion, allows us to determine the direction. The presidential system, strengthening the President's position, universal elections. If the parliamentary-office system, the office system Whether it's in the Chancellor's model or not, it's the president chosen by the National Assembly. And the third formula Those who say, "We don't want change." Please pay attention. It is not enough that in question one is to leave the possibility without changing the constitution of 1997, it is for people like Mr Marshal, because you expressed your view, we specifically put the possibility of maintaining the current model in question 3 so that the elector can go and say yes: I do not want to change, but even if most want to change, I do not want to change the system of government in particular. And that voice will, of course, be taken into consideration. Because it may turn out that most Poles want to change the constitution, but a minority wants to change the model that is shaped today in the Constitution as regards the system of government. So I believe that the President absolutely with an open head and open to all the views that are expressed, in front of the public, has formulated this question. There's a lot of difficulty... I read it last night. Professor Banaszak, preparing for the debate with you. This is about what kind of government we have in Poland at all. Well, the constitutionalists are arguing about it. Yes? Some reason, as the marshal said, that this is rather a parliamentary system, but with elements of the presidential or semi-president system in terms of competence. It's insanely uncircumcised. I mean, that's the question, do we want such an inefficient model of power, or do we want to make any adjustments here? Well, the first two examples on the side. Competitive dispute concerning the international representation of Poland in the European Council. Mr. Marshal was a Senate marshal back then. The dispute between the President of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Dudek was then the proxy of President Lech Kaczyński It is about what it means to cooperate with the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister responsible for foreign policy in these matters. The second example. We have a provision that states that the Minister of National Defence... The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the President, during the time of peace, carries out this sovereignty through the Minister. President Bronisław Komorowski from the Parliamentary Court in 1997 said that he would vote against this basic law, because the rule is flawed and in practice, regardless of who will be the Minister of National Defence and who will be president, will lead to certain problems. I won't mention... I remember President Grzegorz Schetyn, but also Mr President, later Prime Minister, today President Donald Tusk, who as part of the famous campaign 4 x Yes, he said that the first thing that the Civic Platform will do when it comes to power will change the constitution. And thank you here because one of you said in the debate Senator Napieralski spoke about this. Of course, few people today believe that even a comma should not be changed in the Constitution. That's the question that determines the directions. It is maximum, I would say, concrete in terms of directional choice. A proportional system. We are aware that this is primarily a question of whether we want JOWs or whether we want a partial introduction of JOWs. That's the clou of the question today. Because the fact that we have multi-ndat circles, the proportional system, we know that. Yes? Those who want to maintain this model will mark this response option. As far as change is concerned, we will have a change if the Poles so decide. The fundamental issue is to mimic the will of the nation. I'm here to argue with the Marshal's statement that the wish concert is a representation of the will of the nation, the will of society. The President of the Republic of Poland sees his role as a servant to society and to the nation and wants these demands that society has made to be modelled on the content of the draft resolution on ordering a referendum. Senator Czerwinski's questions about the mode were correct. Of course we're talking about a referendum on Article. 125 constitutions, on a matter of particular importance to the State. He does not distinguish between consultative referendums or referendums on other names. There's no doubt... Here you can recall numerous constitutionalists who point to this The current Mr. Prof. Dudek, mentioned just now, Professor Banashak, can also be said: Mrs. Swan, Professor. Młynarska-Sobaczewska, Mr.Prof. Marek Dobrowolski, Mr.Prof. Orłowski, and in the 2015 opinion, even Mr.Marek Chmaj. Many people say that constitutional matter may also be the subject of this referendum. This means that constitutional matters are particularly important for you. The entire Civic Platform Club in 2015 voted in favour of a referendum based on Article. 125 constitutions. Mr President, patron Piotr Zientarski also supported this resolution, so I think that today there is no dispute in this Chamber that this referendum can take place in such a legal form. Art. 67 referendum laws. We've done this kind of analysis, interpretation. We believe that this provision obliges us to take the necessary steps, just as the senator read it from the wording of the provision. That doesn't mean there'll be a new constitution. In our view, work on the preparation of the initiative, i.e. I'm talking hypothetically now. The establishment of a constitutional committee or an appropriate body, the initiation of work within the time limit laid down in Article. 67, is already fulfilling this standard and the obligation which is imposed here. I would like to say very clearly that if the result of the vote is such that this referendum is to take place, the President will take this as an obligation to speak under the Rule. 235 with an initiative to amend the Constitution. Within the framework of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of Interesting is the question about the mode. I'm convinced it's a matter of discussion, because you can imagine... Like you said, there are three roads here, three solutions. We remember that before the adoption of the 1997 Constitution, we had a law about it yesterday at the committee meeting. That regulated the way the Constitution was being worked. She theoretically provided for a similar referendum that could possibly have taken place but did not take place. I wouldn't rule that out today. If it is the Senate's will, if it is the Sejm's will, that regardless of the appointment of a committee and regardless of the President's assurance that he will carry out the binding outcome of the referendum in such a way that he will submit a draft amendment to the Constitution in accordance with the Article. 235 or a new basic law... The case is so reported that it would be worth considering, in my opinion, whether or not to prepare a law on the mode of work on amending the Constitution or on the adoption of a new basic law. I don't share a view that sometimes In my opinion, it is wrongly raised in legal literature that the Constitution does not allow the possibility of amending the Constitution at all. I don't think that's relevant. I mean, I'm convinced by the principle of sovereignty of the nation and assuming that the nation has the power to act, it has the power to decide these matters... If he puts it in a general vote and doesn't adopt a constitution... It will impose certain obligations on public authorities, including the President, to launch these work. It is possible to make the right change here. The judicial authority. Senator Spider's question. This is a postulate that appeared at meetings. I have already talked several times about the fact that not all the issues that have emerged are issues that have been reflected in the content of the questions. Let me give you an example. We're opening a constitution, and we're opening an article. 182 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland reads: the participation of citizens in the exercise of justice is governed by a law. What does that mean? There's nothing good about it. What citizens? What kind of proceedings? In what capacity? We have a great deal in the Constitution of this kind of policy. In about 150 cases, the constitution refers to the law, i.e. de facto the constitution does not prejudge anything. There's a debate tonight. During meetings with Poles, of course, there were voices of support for changes in the National Judicial Council, for reform of the justice system, so that judges did not elect judges, those 15 elected on the basis of the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 2 of the Constitution, but to be done by representatives of the nation. There were many different demands. Such a frequently emerging demand was that the institutions of the judges should be re-established. This is a matter to consider. I do. It's my personal opinion. The fact that the liquidation of the collegiate offences associated with the PRL system was as if negative, the extension of the scope of the cognition of the courts and the inclusion of all minor cases, including offences, in the normal procedure... I don't know if it was the most accurate decision. Maybe in the case of minor criminal cases, minor civil cases, we should consider such things. Except we can't. Please see that even among the senators there are conflicting voices: why there is no question about this and about it?, the questions are too few, the questions are too much, they are too detailed, they are too general. Someone will always be dissatisfied. I wouldn't rule out such serious reflection on whether it's an institution of judges of peace... I'm very positive... I had the honour to present to the High House the view of the President as regards the Supreme Court Act. I am convinced that the jury in the Supreme Court is a good solution, that the jury in disciplinary proceedings is a good solution, that the jury who settle cases concerning an emergency complaint is also a good solution. These things need to be discussed. And this is another positive advantage of this referendum. If this referendum takes place, there is no doubt that we will then launch a national debate. During the work of the Constitutional Commission or in the course of the work on the new Constitution, there will still be many things that need to be considered, and which have been raised in open public consultations and expert statements. Similarly, many demands appear at meetings of staff of the Chairs of Constitutional Law, in statements of politicians, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for all your answers. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much.]] I don't think he has an obligation to answer in writing. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present to you a resolution, the opinion of the Legislative Commission on the draft order of the President of the Republic of Poland to order a national referendum. On 23 July 2018, the Senate Marshal sent the draft order of the President of the Republic of Poland to the committee to order a national referendum. The Commission, at its meeting on 24 July 2018, after an opinion on the draft order, recommends that the High House not agree to a referendum. There was a vote: 4 senators were in favour of a request for non-approval, 2 were against, 6 abstentions. Indeed, as Marshal Borusewicz said in his questions, most of the committee decided to do so, and most of them have the Law and Justice. As we know, not only do we not have a binding voice in all matters, but we are not even always listened to. Not much, they don't listen to the greatest legal authority. So that's... Maybe it's comforting, and anyway, it doesn't depreciate. As great authority as Professor Strzembosz is not listened to, and my voice with the voice of such authority is actually that, so to speak, pale, is a shadow. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a discussion. This discussion reflected the issues that the Minister said. The Minister initially put forward arguments identical to those he presented today before the House in plenary. There were a number of questions, of course less than today, in plenary, but some questions were duplicated. The committee was also attended by senators who are not members of the committee. According to the regulations, they have every right to do so. Every senator has that right. He can't vote, but he can apply. Senator Klich filed a motion not to allow the referendum to be ordered in this manner. Senator Pociej and I have joined this proposal. There's been a discussion. Many legal issues have been raised, including: He also spoke to the referee here. Well, there have been raised issues, including those of Senator Czerwiński today, namely the admissibility of the referendum, the doubts about this constitutional referendum. The referendum is a form of direct government by the nation. It's obvious, no one's discussing it. In voting, the nation takes a specific case. I still stress the word "specific" which must then be implemented by the relevant state authorities. Therefore, referenda questions should be sufficiently specific to ensure that there is no doubt as to the content of the decision taken. This argument was made during the committee meeting. Specificity is what distinguishes referenda questions from consultative questions. Add We want to emphasise this as those who have applied for non-approval of the referendum The current Constitution does not provide for the possibility of a consultative referendum, the outcome of which would not be binding for the authorities of the State. This is the opinion of the Jagiellonian University professors, not my minor constitutionalist, but of the Jagiellonian University professors, the President's Alma Mater. [[They don't agree.]] [[What about the professors of Opole University?]] I think that these authorities should be dealt with by the President, and in any case, they should be taken into account. In response to such arguments was the argument put forward today by Minister Mucha, an excellent lawyer, who makes the argument of. Excuse me, Minister, so to speak. In America, black people beat. Well, that's the analogy: Komorowski did it. Plus, society's settled. The Minister himself spoke. Actually, this subject... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Marshal, the rapporteur goes beyond the subject.]] No, I was talking about it at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the room: Please hold on...]] [[The voice from the room:]] Good. But at the committee meeting on the subject, I told you. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Marshal, this is not a debate yet.]] And today, too, this argument has come to an end. For me, it's not an argument to say that we were in favour at the time. That doesn't mean anything. I think it wasn't the right decision at the time, it wasn't the right one. And I can admit that I'm wrong. And the best evidence was the results of this referendum. And I think that this issue, which is also the subject of this referendum, has already been settled. He also spoke on this subject. Professor Dariusz Dudek, with whom I have been privileged to meet at conventions for many years... [[Mr. Marshal, can Senator Martynowski file a motion?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...at the reunions of the cathedrals, as was mentioned. And Professor Dudek. At least that's what I understood. At the committee meeting, he did not actually disprove the thesis of Jagiellonian University professors, presented and quoted by me at the time... [[He wasn't smart.]] ...at the committee meeting, he merely gave a historical justification that it should actually be in the constitution, and it is not. Well, these professors are saying, maybe you can criticize it, but in fact, the sovereign doesn't have that kind of power of arrangement when it comes to amending the constitution. That's the way it is in this constitution. There were no questions raised by members of the Law and Justice. There was no doubt, there were no questions. As I said, questions and evaluations were raised by members of the Civic Platform. Above all, there was a substantive discussion on questions, the content of questions, or, in fact, the duplication of questions on issues that are already resolved in the Constitution. For example, a question about... Oh, question one. That is exactly the question of the rules for amending the Constitution. Senator Borowski spoke on this subject. I think he'll speak here, too. [[He's gonna talk out of it.]] And that would be a matter of doubt in the context of Senator Spider's question. Because there are 3 different variants and they are often difficult to compare. There was a question, because that's what we were talking about... There's a question about the presidential system, the office here is mentioned. But there was also a discussion: what cabinet system? Because they can be different. Well, there may be a French system, while the prime minister and the president are at the same time, but he may be American, where the president is also the head of the government. This element is not in the question, there is no such version here. This version assumes in advance that the President must remain, no matter what his powers are. [[But there's nothing here about the monarchy either.]] Please? [[But there's no King either...]] No, no... But was I talking about the king? [[No, but I'm asking...]] Oh, those questions will be here any minute, Mr... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In a minute. There will be a question about the King in a moment. I'd be happy to answer that. [[I hear some king is alive.]] Please? [[Some king is supposed to be alive.]] Am I supposed to... [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please! Continue, Senator.]] But I have a special respect for the senator, which is why I'm responding to him right away, hot. [[Senator Marek Borowski: Although it would be good to get close to the end.)]] Yeah, I'm getting to the end. Because of... Oh, there was a discussion about... It was Senator Rulewski who spoke about work issues. Because there's a question about job protection. But look, Art. 24: The work is under the protection of the Republic of Poland. The State shall supervise the working conditions. This is a constitutional regulation, so there is absolutely no need in this matter. There's a question about the primacy of the constitution. Art. The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland, its provisions apply directly, unless the Constitution says otherwise. There's also an art. 9 saying that the Polish Republic respects its binding international law. These issues are therefore resolved. It is also settled in the Constitution on the issue of... Because there's a question about... which one? Wait, we'll see... Fifth: Are you in favour of emphasising the importance of Christian sources of the Polish State and the culture and identity of the Polish Nation in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? So I quote the constitution, the preamble: "Thank you to our ancestors for their work, for the struggle for independence occupied by huge victims, for culture, here's what we're talking about. Ingrained in the Christian heritage of the Nation and human values... It is therefore included in the constitution not only in our heritage, but also in the culture rooted in this Christian heritage. This is clearly written, therefore... There are no very important, systemic questions about society, such as those concerning. the senate's systemic position. I would like to say that this discussion has been going on for many years in the Senate, in Parliament, but not only. I recommend to you the Minister of Publications, Directions of changes in position and functions of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, very interesting position It's not an authorship. The Constitution as the foundation of the rule of law. I had the pleasure of being the conference organizer here at this place On the occasion of the 15th anniversary of the Constitution. The directions for changes in the Constitution de lege ferenda are clearly here... There are a lot of interesting things here. This discussion has been going on for a long time. So that the President does not break down the open door, but ignores the most important issues which are the subject of social, also constitutional discussion, concerning e.g. the number of Members who are very... [[But it's not from the Constitution...]] No, a constitutional number of Members. We have 460 Members, which is as many as we had in the past. We want to cut him off, but we respect that number. There were articles on this subject, many constitutionalists... So that for many reasons First of all, because of ambiguity, because of the settlement of certain issues and the absence of the most important issues that the nation should be asked about... And he was moved by the proposal, and I have to say it because it was... That was the justification of Senator Klich, who made this conclusion that the President, as guardian of the Constitution, had many constitutional delicacies in his account. Delicts that have been identified by the greatest constitutional authority, including its professors. Therefore, it is not the person who should be dealing with these issues at this point in time. In the context that if we're gonna change the constitution... First of all, we should respect the one that is currently in force. These were the conclusions, and I spoke to you at the outset about the results of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u81	Mr. Senator, explain what the vote on the bill is like, that is, the Senate resolution on the referendum. Are the voices... [[That's what I said.]] I understand, but is the abstention... How will such voices be treated, or the same as the votes against or otherwise? It's clear they can... [[As opposed to it.]] How will such votes be treated in the vote in this House? It is a matter of abstaining.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u82	Of course, they affect the quorum, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[How's the objection?]] There's got to be 51 votes in favour to get the Senate's approval. [[So they'll be treated like votes against?]] [[Only the ruthless majority...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, the same thing as against...]] [[Abstention from the vote is like a vote against...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u83	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[In any event, this issue was not the subject of a committee meeting. Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the head of the National Election Office, Mrs Magdalena Pietrzak, is in the room. Would you like to speak? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that the Senate is adopting a resolution in which it consents or does not agree to the referendum. It is therefore not possible to make legislative proposals. It will be possible to vote on its position. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki... There's no senator. I therefore ask that you take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are considering President Andrzej Duda's request in the Senate to draw up a consultative referendum on the validity of the new Constitution of the Republic of Poland or to amend the current basic law. I think that for most Poles, the President's initiative is right, proper, convincing, but the devil, as it is commonly said, is always in the details. It convinces me that the current constitution of April 1997 was drafted only by the legal bodies and that only 40% of Poles decided to adopt it in the referendum. But what is worth pointing out by adopting it 20 years ago was the possibility of making changes or even drawing up a new constitution. She was just supposed to check out after 20, 25 years. I think that's the time it is now, because the April Constitution That's what we call it. In many areas it has become obsolete, does not fully meet the requirements which we expect from the fundamental law in the current situation of Poland, a member of NATO, a member of the European Union, which is in a very dynamic phase of development. This constitution in many cases does not provide clear solutions. Worse, complicates things. Vide: A loud conflict between Prime Minister Donald Tusk and the sleeper. Lechem Kaczyński about who is to represent Poland in Brussels, but that was a long time ago. However, lately, the first president of the Supreme Court has appeared, who, while at rest, has become the President of the Supreme Court in exile. To put it simply, Poles should express what executive authority they want. It is clear that it does not pass the examination of the division between the President elected in direct elections with limited powers and the government elected by the Sejm, but approved by the President. I'll add that the government whose powers are invading the powers of the president and vice versa. However, I do not think of such a change of serious, systemic, but merely a very clear distinction of competences. The previous question is linked to another, equally important one: to normalise the election of Members of the Sejm. As was said here, as Minister Mucha said, the question is whether they should be elected in one-mandate electoral districts, i.e. a majority system or in multi-ndat electoral districts, i.e. a proportional system, or a mixed system, which is a combination of the two previous systems. Let me remind you that this was also said here. In 2015, almost 2 million citizens voted for the introduction of the JOWs. However, because of the Senate elections, I am personally behind the mixed system. I think it is better if there are more politicians, Members or Senators in one district of different political options than when, as it is now, there is only one senator in one district with one political option. Interesting and important is the idea of a greater empowerment of Polish society. This was mentioned by the President at the National Assembly on July 13 at the Royal Castle. The point is to make the referendum mandatory after the collection of 1 million signatures and binding when attendance is above 30% of the voting rights. Certainly, the new constitution should specify more precisely how the provisions of the basic law are applied, so that there are no parodys such as today. Protestants against the violation of the Constitution by Law and Justice read the Constitution literally as if the Bible were read alive as a historical book. It is simply the constitution that needs to be read together with laws and comments so as not to be manipulated by various lobbies that claim that the constitution can be applied against laws where the constitution refers to laws or where one provision of the constitution corrects another. Well, everything is equally important. The conclusion of this is simple: the new constitution should write down as many guarantees as possible, which will come directly from it, but should be general principles and not some very detailed solutions. For me, a very important issue in the new constitution will be the reference in the preamble to the Christian heritage of the Polish nation. This should sound clear and very clear not only as an inspiration for contemporary Poles, as is the case in the current basic law. As in the Constitution, on 3 May, it is intended to contain a traditional invocatio Dei, an act starting with words in the name of God Almighty. I see no concern here that modern - day Christians want to take over the state. According to the Polish tradition, expressed in the Warsaw Confederation in 1573, the Polish state, apart from years of atheization, the years of the Polish People's Republic, has always followed full tolerance, has cared for all other religions. And this pluralism is still with us today. He has been perverted not in us, but in the European Union, which discriminates against Christianity in the name of some Let's call it that. Atheistic multiculturalism. Therefore, in the new constitution we need to write the protection of the Christian heritage clearly and clearly, we must defend our centuries-old identity, and consequently what is here in questions, i.e. the inviolability of family and marriage rights, but I would add, if already, that made of father and mother, of man and woman. Invocatio Dei would be a clear national proud admission to the values and principles of our Christian tradition. Proof that invocatio Dei does not imply an assassination of unbelievers in any way. It's not like anybody wants to convert anybody. Whoever set such a goal would confuse the order of faith with the legal order. This may be a paradox, but just putting an appeal to God in the Constitution guarantees religious freedom, and thus the right to freely decide in religious matters. But also invocatio Dei in no way leads to the granting of special powers to churches and religious and religious unions. As I said, it is only an adequate characteristic of the Polish society and, above all, a focus on the values to which society should appeal. The lack of reference to God or, more broadly, to some positive standards of conduct does not make neither a constitution nor a neutral state. In practice it is an expression of agnosticism, and thus also of a certain world view. So while someone may think that the solution without invocatio Dei is the best, it is a mistake to claim that it is an expression of a neutral state. And back to the answer to the president's questions... Well, don't let anyone think that answers are equivalent to writing a new constitution. It's just a survey material, an alternative. I agree with the President that today we have more practical experience with the application of the 1997 Constitution, so we can adopt provisions that meet the new challenges. We also have a great deal of experience in connection with numerous constitutional projects, among others. signed by more than 1 million citizens by the Solidarity project. There are projects of centre-right and independence groups. These could be reference points for the new constitution or for its amendment. But in fact, no referenda initiative will help if the power centre does not have the right majority in parliament. And this is a much more serious matter than the resolution of the referendum, which may be on average or even weak, as it was with the referendum ordered by President Komorowski. And I would like to point out one more thing: that the nation today behaves against values. I'm gonna use a graphical comparison. It's like a sleeping giant. So he's more interested in what he has or wants than who he is. That is why we also need a tremendous force of persuasion to live by values, that is, to wake this giant up. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u85	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The State representing the State Election Commission, I am pleased that the State has undertaken... to attend today's meeting despite the opposition of the High House. The announcement of the President's consultative referendum was good news for Polish citizens. Raising the discussion around this case was an additional element... We are not always aware, not always my countrymen are aware that they reach jobs, leisure, schools, cultural or sporting events precisely because their road map is guarded by the mother of laws, by the constitution and references to other laws. Yes, Poland is and should be a democratic state of law, in which the constitution should determine first and foremost the behaviour of the authorities, Poles and their mutual relations. And there was a moment last year when the president could express it at a time when a huge demonstration, but not just a demonstration in Warsaw... There were expectations that the constitutional guardian, Mr. President, would open the door to those who... the only banner they had was the one with the inscription "Constitution." Unfortunately, this door was locked and it's still locked today. This means that, at least in some ways, confidence in the President's intentions is undermined, that his main parameter of action will be the constitution. Well, later experiences, politicians, but not only... Much more would be said here, in particular, by the representatives of the legal elite, or actually the entire legal community, that they have reason not to trust this initiative. But I will maintain my optimism, even though these clear sides of the referendum are declared, and I do not intrude... Well, I guess there are hidden intentions. This optimism, you are right, Minister, is needed. But he can't just be emotional, he just has to be a declaration of many, if not of the vast majority. Unfortunately, you and the President have failed. The largest group that distributes cards, including today, during the vote, but, more importantly, even if you have to run a campaign, uses the method of obstruction, to put it mildly. He's relinquishing... And that's the point, 'cause the terms should be so much more robotic. We don't have an answer today, we don't know what to do. And the Minister's appeal to the Civic Platform is so unjustified that we are not the decision-makers here, so we cannot take responsibility for this initiative. And we can't encourage others to participate in this act because we don't know how to act. And if we know it, it's the conformist right-hand side of the political scene. But that's not the only reservation I want to make. The work indicated that the choice of term is incorrect. I don't know why the Minister was talking about three possibilities today. After all, the bill clearly states that one of the options, that is, that it will be on the day of the referendum, is out of the question, because the law that we adopted probably a month ago is being deleted. The arguments, those and legal, and, perhaps even more, the infrastructure presented by the State Election Commission are very important. A very courtesy attitude because they say they're going to hold a referendum, but they don't guarantee his results, proves that this case isn't tight. And that raises my doubts. What are we going to do with a referendum, what are we going to do with great ideas, if all this in the laundry proves to be ineffective? And it's not like they're vain accusations. Finally, recently, in 2014, local government elections, which will accompany the referendum, showed great ignorance, great confusion, from the IT system to the voting cards. All the more reason to expect this to be duplicated through a referendum campaign. It's even harder what the election board doesn't want. And you're right. The electoral campaign itself, which will, after all, include elements of combining, opposing, pushing one case at a time, raising elections over a referendum. I know you will argue, Minister, with my statement that it is difficult to imagine. This is not a depreciation of the wisdom of Poles, but these are the lessons of experience, from this experience which says that attendance is low in the local elections, because it did not exceed, as I recall, 40% that local elections are not the most important part of the electoral act for Poles, and understanding many issues is not always as we Polish self-government creators expected. Finally, the third issue this is a lack of agreement between the modern Poland camp That's what I'd say. A camp that would like to present a new vision of the Constitution. Because the current constitution doesn't answer all the problems, I'm about to tell you. And finally, there's one more thing I'm going to remember... And speaking of questions... Oh, maybe there's one more thing. The Minister has just mentioned today a very interesting solution that appeared before the war when a review of the constitution was announced after 25 years of existence. It is very obvious that Poland was united at the time after the partitions, united its systems of measurement, money, territories, customs. But that raises the question: don't you think, Minister, that this action, these questions, today's proposal should be preceded by a review of the current constitutional solutions? Because I'm gonna admit that even I'm not able to embrace everything that should be included in this constitution today. And if we move on to the questions... Even if we reject criticism, a reasonable criticism of many of these questions, then, frankly, the problem for each referendum participant will be to bring together all these issues, questions and answers to these questions, and to combine them into one constitutional act. And yet, the work on the constitution carried out with the participation of very intelligent people Not only politicians, but also lawyers, as well as public participation, lasted a few years. And here the referendum participant will have to associate this within a few hours and sort of put together a legal act that will be consistent with his aspirations. [[Time's up.]] And this is it, Mr. Marshal, that there was no time for Poles in the matter of this constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u87	You have a voice, Senator Lightning. [[But I still have five minutes?]] You're entitled to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All the nobles who sit there, by our side, by the senators! It seems to me that it is necessary to say to ourselves that it is undoubtedly necessary for us, the senators, to give their consent today for a referendum, Minister, to take some kind of courage. The word "courage" should, I think, fall, in addition to a certain appeal to both Or rather, three pages. Namely this appeal for courage I'm going to tell you why he's right. Of course, I'm going to the Senators of Law and Justice, which is obvious because I'm a member of this club, but I'm also going to the opposition, to you, to the Civic Platform. I'm not just doing it because the name obliges The State has so called itself and should therefore draw conclusions from this But also because it has to be said to ourselves that, despite many doubts, not granting this mandate, this agreement will mean that we are not de facto in favour of believing in the Polish people and that they can be a citizen and can be sovereign. Please consider the other side of the medal, that is, the issue of this non-consciousness of consent. And why does this require courage? There are undoubtedly a lot of problems that we have covered in Law and Justice, which are, I think, as real as possible. From the one most frequently expressed, i.e. the issue of the deadline of 10 and 11 November. As far as this incendiary bomb is concerned, I would definitely like to stress that I believe that this term has been chosen with the intention and thought of the President. I mean, because of our obvious common knowledge about the history of referendums in Poland... In historical terms, they have rather negative associations, both on the side, say, of a broadly understood group of Polish society tied to democracy, and after that which originates from communism and which may not have this attachment to today. Well, that's how it is, if we divide the Polish nation according to these sides, and this is one of the sides where we undoubtedly live. Also, of course, a referendum... I hope you can understand that I am referring to the referendum of General Jaruzelski, which is a pfft! It's dead. And, of course, about the last referendum, President Bronisław Komorowski, who proved to be completely unsuccessful and which, repeated in such a variant, would undoubtedly mean the collapse of some capital, prestige, in this case, above all, of the President, but also of our House, which makes decisions on such matters. And that's what takes courage, that's the exemplification of the concept of courage. However, I think that in this logic, in which we are looking for strengthening that courage to take place, it is on November 10 and 11 that we seem to be the most appropriate term, because then we can actually bear witness as Poles that we not only honor Piłsudski, Dmowski, Paderewski, Witos, Korfanty, Daszyński and many, many others, but also want to be, that is what we want to be, Piłsudski, Dmowski, Paderewski... How else are we supposed to be them, if not by engaging directly in what is most important in the Polish state, i.e. building a constitution? So, of course, it's understandable. But I understand critics who do not want to accept these days and, of course, have pragmatic reasons why this term is rejected. It would take a long time to talk about this courage, but I would like to say one more thing in time. Namely I asked the Minister about the inequality of questions, and because I developed it And it turns out that the minute limit is inexorable. I didn't have time to clarify my question. The Minister replied to me, yes, but only to the part I was able to articulate. And I meant something else in this inequality. Namely these arranged, discussed, as I understand, questions contain a trap for us, for us who will take part in this referendum. The trap is that we, answering yes or no, will very often not know, or even understand, what the consequences of the answer will be, the consequences of the response that is actually yes or no. This is, of course, the result of the complexity of the questions and, of course, another formula for building constitutional provisions, building referenda questions. But this is a space in which the recipient may feel uncomfortable because he replied yes, and only as a result will there be constitutional records about which he will find out later and may turn out that he did not want them at all. If we're gonna learn to be a citizen, we're gonna have to. That is to say, the power and the nation that creates this power. To be honest with each other. We need to find it here. And I see this inequality in questions. It is within this point of view. And I am not only referring to the scale of dependence on the core of the constitutional record, to which the Minister has answered me. That's what I'm saying. Personally, the question is very close to me. And I am sure that I will be very happy to answer them for the Christian source of established law, which is to be built in Poland. I would very much like this source of law to be clearly defined so that it is written that this law comes from Christianity, from our tradition, tradition of the European continent, and Latin civilization. It is described, in my opinion, by Professor Felix Koneczny, the most excellent workshop. Until now, no one has defined Latin civilization, Christian civilization more wisely, classified. But I kindly inform you that I am afraid that not everyone in Poland has read the works of Feliks Koneczny and not everyone has an opinion about whether civilization is described by him as an acceptable definition of Christianity as a source of established law. And, of course, I would very much like this to be seen, that is, that axiology, which is the dominant sphere in our Polish consciences, as a Christian nation, at the same time has been translated into law. Because Latin civilization is this civilization in which power, and society, are somehow forced to watch over axiology and not to violate it, unlike other civilization systems, where society has very often in history passed the right to destroy Christian axiology just because the power is to have utilitarian purposes and utilitarian means. Such an example was the Third Reich, where Protestant and Catholic German society gave power the right to destroy the axiology that Protestants and Catholics themselves had confessed, and it ended with the destruction of Jews, the destruction of nations, etc., etc. We as Poles should definitely tell ourselves that we are in favour of Latin civilization. I would also be very willing to respond, in accordance with the intentions, as I understand them, to the mandatory results of the referendum if the conditions were met, but just... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Now, just a second, I'll ask for another five minutes, in the next order of course... [[Sign up, please.]] I'm just gonna finish this sentence. But how do we apply this requirement of obligation, if more than a million, 2 or 3 million Poles, however, are in favour of destroying the Latin civilization in Poland? And the next five minutes will be later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! We have a special discussion today, because the constitution is something special for you, for the political community, for the citizens. Respect for the Constitution, to the spirit of the Constitution, to the letter of the Constitution is some concrete measure, concrete respect for the state. It is also something that concreteizes the political community, brings people with different views, different dreams, pursuits of some common denominator and common reference point. Today we have an existing constitution from 1997, which has its own specificity, which was created during the breakthrough, symbolizes somehow the process of leaving the Polish People's Republic, with all the shortcomings of this process. Undoubtedly, it is a constitution in which there are many shortcomings and shortcomings. In a few situations these deficiencies have caused more or less conflicts, sometimes even crises. Besides, the current crisis is also a source of some ambiguities, interpretation problems related to the constitution. The voice that it makes sense to think about a possible change to the constitution is a voice that falls from many sides. I remember that a few years ago, President Kwasniewski, one of the main creators of the 1997 Constitution, said that too. That it may be worthwhile to undertake work, and certainly to discuss a possible revision of the Constitution. The question is, actually now, today, at the present time, in the second half of 2018 does something like this appear... And if it doesn't show up, does it have a real chance of having something that is often referred to in literature as a constitutional moment? Is such a constitutional moment really possible? Optimism or even the minister's enthusiasm gives us an opportunity or hope to open up this process of birthing a constitutional moment, but it is fair to say that today we have a big problem with this. Today, this is my assessment. Many of us, perhaps even most of the political environments, unfortunately, treat the constitution in an instrumental way. The Constitution is treated in an instrumental manner, and to some extent by our side. Sometimes we see whether we feel that the constitution seems to us to be a barrier to proper, announced reforms, and sometimes we try to avoid something here. But And I probably won't get your approval here any more. In my opinion, our opponents use the constitution in an instrumental way to defend the status quo, to delegate the 2015 electoral result. The state is instrumental in treating the constitution, which is an excuse not to accept the results of the elections. That's my assessment. The question therefore arises as to whether, in this situation, an instrumental treatment of the Constitution Indeed, we can afford to take the challenge of working on a new constitution seriously, beyond divisions. This is certainly not supported by the growing conflict and the apparent crack of the political community, the transfer of our internal dispute to the international area, which is a concrete example of what is coming from Europe today, which is very worrying. There is also a technical problem for me, the quality of lawmaking. We say the 1997 constitution is flawed. But can we afford today in a technical sense, in a practical sense, to write a better constitution? After all, if you look at the laws that are written today, you can see that they are constantly being corrected. Can we afford to write a better constitution? Are we capable of discussing over division? It is difficult in an optimistic, positive way to answer these questions, but one would like to say: well, let's at least try to give ourselves a chance. Undoubtedly, the century of independence is particularly conducive to such an opportunity. The climate of celebrating the century of independence can somehow neutralize these various cracks and tensions. Therefore, I repeat my appeal and what I have already said in the question, a minimum appeal, something that in a normal community should not be a problem at all, but in our opinion it is... Whether we're capable of having a climax or a celebration of the century of independence... Because these great projects, in different areas, and local, and central, projects that are related to the celebration of independence, are very much, really have and educational elements, and cultural, here a lot of good It's already happening. But can we afford to have Poles, representatives of the whole community, former presidents, former prime ministers, etc., gathered in one place at some climax of this century.? This seems obvious and trivial, but on the other hand, politically speaking, it seems unlikely that it requires more than just a proper sending of invitations. Sometimes I think there's a need for some sort of missionary activity here so that it's possible. And if this minimum is not achieved, then why talk about the maximum undertaking, what is writing a constitution for the next decades? Can we afford to make such an effort? We would like to say optimisticly: let us give ourselves a chance, let us vote positively, in favour of the President's request. Well, it's best unanimous, because if we don't agree in the Senate, why talk about building a community like this? One would like to say: let's give ourselves this opportunity, a century of independence should favour this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u91	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a presidential referendum, although we do not really know exactly what it would be about. Is this a constitutional change? But there's another question: why? After all, the current constitution is not respected and respected by the President. He talked about it very thoroughly, in detail, Senator Rulewski. So what are we asking Poles? After all, we all know that you do not respect the Constitution. Are you sure you will follow the provisions of the new basic law? I share most of Professor Bobka's doubts. These doubts have haunted me for a long time, and my thoughts are shared by the voters I am talking to. Dear Senators, the nation has already stated what constitution it wants and what system it wants. That was 20 years ago. According to the PiS, that expired nation no longer counts, because today there is another sovereign, but fortunately there is a constitution based on traditional values, western values, Christian values. And it's written down. It is the Polish society that wants a democratic state, a threefold division of power, civil liberties, that is, everything that is currently being broken, everything that is Unfortunately, I say this with sadness, it is unobserved by today's power. Today, the President wants to spend $100 million on a two-day referendum, which is why I asked the Minister. I said, why? After all, all you have to do is look out the window, get out of this beautiful building, walk around and see what power looks like today: a cuff, police cordon, no right to assembly. These are problems you can see here and now. Furthermore, the appointment of a referendum on changes to the Constitution immediately after or during the local elections will result in a number of substantive and organisational complications. This is what the State Elections Commission believes, which we have not listened to in a long time. The State Election Commission points out that the overlap between the electoral campaign and the referendum campaign, which may be conducted by other actors, will lead to problems related to the financing and settlement of two separate campaigns, i.e. the election and referendum campaign. The State Election Commission shall indicate that in accordance with Article. The provisions of the electoral code shall apply mutatis mutandis to the voting procedure of the National referendum Act. This means, among other things, as the State Election Commission writes in its letters, that they should be included, among others. provisions on the holding of a referendum by two regional committees: to hold a vote in the circuit and to determine the outcome of the voting in the circuit as defined in the electoral code. At the same time, it points out that the National referendum Act sets out the procedure for setting up a single committee. There is therefore a conflict of laws in this regard. The provisions of the electoral code cannot be applied to the establishment of two committees in a national referendum, as this procedure is governed by the provisions of the National referendum Act. The Commission also points out that the National referendum law provides for the delivery of ballot cards by the electoral commissioners and, according to the electoral code, it is up to the electoral officials to provide ballot cards. We see clearly that the organisation of a referendum can result in a huge electoral and social mess, which is why I am asking all senators to reject this idea of the President. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Remember May 25, 1997, Sunday. At that time a constitutional referendum was held in Poland, which approved the Constitution of the Republic of Poland drawn up by representatives of political groups in the then parliament. Twelve million 137,000 people made it to the polls, or 42.86% eligible. 52.7% the voters voted in favour of the new basic law. It was 45.9% against voters. Although the referendum law of 29 June 1995 in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provided that the referendum was binding when more than half of the voting rights were involved, the Constitution was adopted. This was the result of the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Administrative Chamber, Labour and Social Insurance of 15 July 1997. I remind you of this fact because it is a good introduction to our debate. High Izbo, the constitution that we now have, adopted as a result of this referendum, was developed in 1993 and 1997, i.e. during a period of clear domination of the then coalition of SLD-PSL plus the Union of Freedom. Writing this constitution basically had, from a historical or legislative point of view, 2 stages. The first stage was when the chairman of the Constitutional Commission in the then Seym or rather in the then parliament, because it was the Constitutional Commission, was Alexander Kwasniewski and the President of the Republic was Lech Wałęsa. This constitution has tried to upset the President's powers. As we remember, in the Small Constitution there were so-called presidential resorts, i.e. those resorts which were influenced by the President's cast, the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And then this constitution was cut, as it was said in political jargon, i.e. It was written in opposition to Lech Wałęsa. At the time when Alexander Kwasniewski became President of the Republic in 1995 there was a change of vajcha. They began redrafting the entire pieces of this text and considering how to do so in order, however, to increase the powers of the head of state. And this sin, this political cyclicalism in the sphere of the system, as regards the fundamental structure of the executive authority, is a shadow to this day. ♪ 'Cause the fact is ♪ No matter who has what view of the matter That the power of the president's mandate from the general election... The President has the strongest democratic mandate of all state authorities, and he has the powers he has. Also a whole range of other provisions in this draft constitution have been the subject of ideological pressures or certain concepts resulting from the political situation at that time, from the close period of the Polish People's Republic, which... Well, she was written a few years after the system changed in Poland. And there's a lot of that in the Constitution. Let me remind you that there are a lot of records I won't quote them, but everyone knows the constitution. In which a constitutional standard is defined and later, in detail, refers to the Act. This is, among other things. the source of conflicts and interpretation disputes about what is constitutionally compatible and what is not constitutionally compatible. Well, there's some kind of duality here. After all, the whole dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal or the whole dispute over the Supreme Court is a consequence of certain inconsistencies, impreciseness of constitutional records. The question is whether the constitution needs to be changed. I am one of those people who have been critics of that constitution since the beginning. I have published a number of texts on this subject and I have had the opportunity to speak on several occasions. Until a certain point in the official, establishmental political life, there was a dogma that the constitution was perfect and could not be changed, and who wants to change the constitution, the state actually sets fire and wants to destroy some developed, stable structure of the state. Right now, it's starting to change. Twenty years have passed since it was adopted, one generation has passed, political realities have changed, geopolitical realities have changed, we are a member of NATO, we are in the European Union and it is clear that this constitution will have to be changed sooner or later. Those are the facts, whether they like it or not. Of course, the subject of the discussion is how it needs to be changed. And at this point I would like to thank the Minister for initiating the constitutional debate, because thanks to the fact that the President has personally engaged in this, this has been brought to the rank of a very important element of the public debate agenda. There have been a lot of speeches in public space over the last few months, and this is undoubtedly very valuable. From this point of view, it was very good that the President started this discussion, which has notabene in our environment of a broadly understood camp good change with varying intensity has been going on for many years. Various politicians have already spoken about the Constitution. It is not that this subject is completely new that he did not exist in the public debate, but the intensifying of this discussion, the consultations that were held by Mr President and his colleagues, and Mr Mucha, who is present in the Chamber, the material that was collected during these consultations... Well, this is very valuable material, which I think will be fundamental to the future direction of these changes, which are going to happen sooner or later in the Constitution. I am moving on to the question of referendum. Minister, from the beginning I have pointed out in the media statements that, in my view, as a practice, as a senator who works in the district, the connection of referendums with such an event as November 11, especially in the context of the century of independence Although it seems justified in substance and I agree with this argument that when discussing a constitution, like not at a time like this... But knowing the praxis of political life in Poland, the level of tension, which unfortunately also goes down to the level of local governments, and bearing in mind that this holiday will be primarily organised in all practically localities in Poland by them, and bearing in mind that this referendum will, however, involve a certain political campaign Because someone will be in favor of the answer in the third or fourth or eighth question, and against this in the seventh or in one and will try to convince as many people as possible... Well, that'll be part of the political struggle. And from this point of view, this term is actually difficult. And the other thing. I agree that the first four questions are fundamental questions. What would be the state's concept and in what direction should we think of possible changes to the Constitution? Other In this very specific form of social security or reference to a value which is of course of fundamental importance, but in such a formula it can also be part of a worldview confrontation and discussion on this subject. In my opinion, we are unfortunately more faced with a survey than with typical referendum rhetoric. And that's why I asked the Minister if there were any options under consideration to change the deadline or to reduce the number of questions. Well, unfortunately, that didn't happen. So, Minister, thanking the President, I am convinced that we will be able to work out a political and substantive position, which will sooner or later lead to the drafting of a constitution in line with the challenges of Poland, Anna Domini in the first half of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u95	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First, I would like to start by correcting what Senator Jackowski just said at the outset, although perhaps this is due to the awkwardness of the wording. Namely, his statement showed that the 1997 constitution, although it did not receive 50% attendance. After all, it was approved by the appropriate Supreme Court House. So from what he said... [[The referendum was.]] Constitutional referendum, yes. [[The referendum itself was approved by the Supreme Court...]] I understand, but from this statement it seemed to have come to some, I apologize for the word, the scam, that the Supreme Court did not do well, which probably would have been another argument to speed up the Supreme Court judges. That's not what happened. It was that the Sejm adopted the Constitutional Act and in this Constitutional Act, adopted 2/3 of the votes, correctly, as regards the procedure for adopting the Constitution, he wrote down that a referendum would take place and that in this referendum the requirement of 50% attendance was abolished. So everything took place lege artis, and the Supreme Court only declared the validity of this referendum because nothing like that was happening there to question it. So much for correction. Now, about this project that we're discussing today... well, first of all, I'd like to popolize a little bit with this thesis, which is a demagogical thesis and is the practice of such moral gambling, such moral blackmail. Namely, it's said Mr. Minister uses it, and Mr. President, and some of the debaters That those who oppose the concept presented oppose the nation to speak. So they're blocking the nation, and if they're blocking the nation, they shouldn't be the representatives of this nation, in short. So they're pretty suspicious. This is a false and dangerous thesis. That is why it is stated in the Constitution that the President cannot decide this referendum on his own, but must have the approval of the Senate that the decisions of one person, executive authority, be controlled so that they are controlled by the legislative authority. Why? Well, because a referendum is a very serious matter. We know if there's a proper turnout, we have a warrant. And if someone's alone, for example. Announce a referendum on a case that could cause serious damage, this initiative must be stopped. Well, let's say, for example, the president, for some reason, e.g. that it would make him popular, he would conclude that he would announce a referendum with a question: are you in favour of restoring the death penalty in Poland? We know the attitude of people to this, we know the polls, we know what they are, and it's very likely that this result would be positive. And then what are we gonna do about it? And yet the whole political elite Well, I'm obviously overlooking some of the people who are in favour of the death penalty. In general, it is against, it knows that this is not a solution. I am already overlooking our EU commitments on this issue. There is therefore a Senate and this Senate is comprehensively considering what we are talking about, and it does not have to be accepted. Few of this, there are also situations where referendums are not advisable at all, are situations where we are dealing with some, so to speak, elevated emotional state of society. And throwing a referendum at this point can have a fatal impact. Well, that was the example of Brexit. [[Yes, sir.]] There Mr Cameron wanted to show everyone that Britain's society was against leaving the European Union, and he let the campaign in which this society was lied tell him a bunch of crap about how good it would be after he left. And since immigrants were camped at the UK gate, people who were afraid of it The notabene had already had immigrants in their home, and they said what they said. They might change their mind today, but it's too late. Therefore, please do not use such arguments, that if anyone is against, they do not want to cast a vote to the people. In such a case, we must consider that, so to speak, sine ira et studio, what are these questions, why, what will they go on with them, whether people know what questions they answer, etc. And so... I am already overlooking the issue that it is a certain indecency, that the President, who was to be the guardian of the Constitution, and who is the undertaker of the Constitution, announces a referendum and talks about how important the Constitution is. But I'll leave it on the side. Well, in these questions, it's... I mean, here's what I'm going to say: in my opinion, the president invented this referendum, leaving out the issue of gaining some clap and support, mainly for one question, i.e. whether there's a presidential system or not, because he's really interested. Everything else is all kinds of ornaments. Yeah, and the ones about better guarantees for agriculture, better guarantees for mothers, for fathers, for disabled people, for work... I don't know where else those better guarantees are... [[Voice from the room: For pensioners.]] As Minister Mucha says, they were just coming to our meetings and saying it was necessary. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke. I mean, everybody's gonna come and say, "Well, here's a guarantee for me." I'm even surprised: where are the miners? Didn't the miners come to your meetings? Why are there no better guarantees for mining in Poland? And the foresters? They're terrified that there's gonna be a private forest, so why isn't it here? So there are just these turnout lures: there's something for farmers, it's probably going to come and vote; there's still for locals... etc., etc. It's a little embarrassing, I'll be honest with you, Minister. A few questions that actually concerned matters of government, i.e. matters of electoral ordination, matters of the executive system or matters of the compulsory referendum, are going down in all of this. In addition, they are highly imprecise. I have argued with the Minister at the committee meeting and I will repeat it now. Yes, the referendum law says that if there are 3 possible answers, then it is binding, of course, with a proper turnout, that answer, with the most votes. Well, it's logical, isn't it? Right? But let us now look at the first question, where are the options: the new constitution, the changes in the constitution, do not touch the constitution. Let's just say that 40% is in favour of the new constitution, 30% is in favour of changes in the constitution, 30% is in favour of not moving 30%. Minister Mucha said that the President, with such a result, would immediately start writing a new constitution, because 40% The votes came to the first answer. I'm very sorry: 60% is against, 60% I don't want to change the constitution. Some people don't want it at all, and others say it's enough to make adjustments. So it is clear that, with this question, the President was lurking, and that if he were to carry it out, he would do so against most of society. The same is true of the matter of ordination, where we have a mixture: do not touch anything, monomandate and mixed circles. What does "mixed" mean? We don't know. The Minister says there will be a campaign and we will talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was one question and there was a campaign going on around him, everyone would actually focus on it and maybe learn something. But here are 10 questions. This campaign will be from Sasa to Lasa. I'm not saying it's going to take place during the election period anymore. I ignore this because I believe that this kind of referendum should not take place at any time... [[Voice from the room: Time is gone...]] Come on. There are issues like writing 500+ in the Constitution and retirement age. Mr Mucha at the committee meeting said that these were just examples. Well, they're not in the justification, they're in the questions. Therefore, anyone who comes to the premises and reads the question will come to the conclusion that if he votes in favour and as the majority will be 500+ and retirement age will be recorded in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, where does this lead? Finally, is this a constitutional referendum or not? I know different opinions about this. I am not a critic or a supporter of the unconstitutionality of this referendum. I think the president might ask. These are very important matters, at least some of them are important, and the president can ask for them. There is, of course, a question about why, but I've already talked about it. In a situation where there are such reservations, the question is how to vote on it. Because I think the president might be asking, I don't want to vote against it. But I can't vote in favour either. I could hold off, but... This information is for all countries, especially for colleagues from the PIS, holding back is a vote against, because there must be an absolute majority on this issue. [[Mr. Senator...]] The absolute majority is more than half of the voters. The abstainers are against it. That's by the way. I don't want to be against it. I kindly inform you that the only thing I can do about this is not disturb the President, but not help him either. I'm not taking part in this vote. If a referendum were to take place by chance, I will certainly not take part in it because I will not answer such questions. Nor will I encourage anyone to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u98	High Senate! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Today, I cannot do anything other than ask the President of the Republic to stop breaking the Constitution and not participate in the demolishing of the rule of law and restricting civil liberties in Poland. Someone who cannot respect the existing legal fundamental law has no moral right to issue a referendum on the new constitution. And in fact, I have nothing more to say to the President. I am only asking the Minister to convey these words, because I think I am not the only person in Poland who thinks so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u99	You have a voice, Senator Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I think it's St. Augustine said, "Protect me, God, from the destructive feeling that I have to say something about everything." I congratulate Senator Zdrojewska on a very lapidary but expressive statement. At this point we're talking about a referendum, we're not talking about a constitution, so let me focus on the technical side for 10 minutes. I have the impression that I can speak in this regard, because I put exam questions in several medical specialties and, moreover, I review questions that are sent by others, and I have reviewed doctoral or habilitation works on numerous occasions. I must say that I am surprised that President Duda, with a powerful camera, money and the opportunity to prepare an excellent document, makes us discuss something that is most mildly imperfect. Because if we were to analyze these questions in a scientific style, in a scientific review style, none of them would have been accepted. Let us imagine this situation, that on the first question: whether you are in favour of adopting a new constitution, for adopting changes, or for leaving the Constitution of the Republic of Poland unchanged, the majority will answer: no change, and on the third question: whether you are in favour of the presidential system, the cabinet system, or if you are in favour of maintaining the current model, most will answer that you are in favour of the presidential system. And what do you want to do about it? Besides, it seems that for the first question to be answered about leaving the Constitution of the Republic of Poland unchanged, the rest will be a little fuzzy. It's just a matter of consideration. The referendum is to be consultative, as the Minister said. For consultation spend 150 million PLN? We may be able to afford it, but it seems like it would be a lot cheaper to do a big public survey, which would also give us some knowledge. There was talk of a referendum by President Komorowski. The Germans have this saying: einmal ist keinmal, which is one time it's nothing. If someone makes a mistake once, they're forgiven, but if they make the same mistake twice, it means they're silly not to use a more radical term. In German, it sounds like an idiot. But I'm going back to the questions. Question six: are you or are you in favour of constitutional regulation of Polish membership in the European Union and NATO respecting the principles of sovereignty? And what if they kick us out of this NATO if they kick us out of this European Union? We have no particular influence on this as a nation. So, are we gonna change the constitution again? An example of 500+ is given. And what if we get inflation like Venezuela and in a minute, that 500 zloty is worth as much as a piece of cake? Shall we write in the Constitution that everyone should receive a bun? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is infantile and ridiculous. Are you in favour of the constitutional guarantee of special protection of work and the right to retirement? It's 60 and 65 years old. We were discussing retirement age. It seems that it is more a source of economic opportunities of the state than constitutional records, but maybe I am wrong. Question ten: are you in favour of regulating the division of units into municipalities, powiats and voivodships in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? And what's gonna happen... Me, for example. I'd be in favour of taking out the counties. How do I answer the question: am I in favour of regulation? Yes or no? The municipalities are okay for me. The voivodships are okay for me. I'm not talking about the deeper problems I mentioned in the question. In the context of monomandate districts, there is a concept of gerrymandering, or sewing circles under a specific political force. This is legally protected, even in France or the UK, and it would also have to be legally protected in Poland if we were to answer this question, that we are behind one-mandate districts for everyone. I had the impression that in this referendum we would answer fundamental questions: should Members continue to be 460, or 230, or maybe 200, or should the term of office of the President of the Supreme Court actually last 6 years, or depend on the age of that President? There are no such questions, but there is a question which can be defined rhetorical, not to say that it is trivial: are you in favour of guaranteeing the protection of Polish agriculture and food security in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Well, that's a rhetorical question. And what happens when most people say they don't? What are we gonna do about it? Are we gonna wonder if we're increasing grain imports? How are we gonna get to that? Summa summarum, I am generally not against referendum institutions. We could learn from those who have great skill in this, namely the Swiss, who are extremely careful before preparing the referendum, usually formulate 1, 2 questions, up to a maximum of 3 questions, if I remember. When there was a referendum in 1997, As one of my esteemed speakers himself said, it was consulted with all political forces, it was worked out in a difficult, sometimes turbulent discussion. It wasn't here at all. I don't remember anyone consulting with our club, our party, our chairman on anything about it. But you can see that's the tradition now. In conclusion, I would like to say that, with all due respect for the Minister, in respect for the President of the Republic, by abstracting political connotations and political preferences, from the point of view of logic, legal order and the quality of the law served to our constituents, I will not be able to vote in favour of such a prepared referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u101	Thank you. Senator Radziwill was in correction mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I must say that I am not the only one who was struck, insulted by the indecent, insulting words that Senator Grodzki directed towards the President's office. That requires notice. I must say that there are limits to the discussion and the use of words of course offensive to the President, regardless of his proposal, he does not hold this House with dignity. I want to express my feelings of great regret here and If this can be done in such a way, I would like to apologize to the President for saying such a thing here. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator in what mode? [[Corrections.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u104	I would ask you to quote a specific passage in which I offended President Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u105	Already? Thank you. Now you have the floor, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I'm starting to get scared, so... A few lines. The first point is: first you have to respect the constitution that you swore to have arguments about changing it. And the question is, is this the right time to change the constitution? I don't think so. Referral questions are another matter. Well, of course, something nice for everyone. My previous speakers were just talking about it, I'm just going to repeat the short words: 500+; a pension of 60 and 65 years; one-mandate, multi-date or mixed districts; Christian sources; the European Union; agriculture; family. It's just passwords. What's going on here? For attendance, to encourage as many people as possible to go to this referendum. Date of referendum: 11 November. And that's the referenda silence. Well, throughout the country there will be celebrations, in Warsaw, according to the Act on cyclical gatherings, there will be the March of Independence. I remind you of last year's: Minister Zieliński spoke about a beautiful patriotic march, TVP Info, about a great patriotic march. What did the passwords say on the march? White Europe, pure blood. And that'll be November 11th. The election deadline? Of course, it will be on 21 October and 4 November, and the referendum will take place on 11 November. I think it's settled. Although I don't know if the President has already signed yesterday's bill. Surely now, in the days, we will find out very quickly about these dates that they will be. Of course, you may not know this yet, but... Mr. Marek Martynowski is not here, but I am convinced that he probably knows... If you don't know how to vote yet, he'll tell you. And I have no doubt about how you're going to vote. And don't worry, it's not up to us to decide, it's up to you to decide. The State Election Commission's question is what Senator Rulewski asked. You couldn't ask. In my opinion, a national referendum cannot be held without amending the electoral code. We'll probably wait and find out we're gonna need a quick change. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the law of the referendum, it is necessary to approve changes to the Constitution. And here we have a consultative referendum. This can, of course, be done in a simple, small way, in a sovereign-friendly way. I have already mentioned this to you, and now I will just show you an example of how a referendum can be conducted in a simple way. This is an example of a referendum in Miami, Florida: here is a reference print, in which we have 12 questions, so we have 10 questions, so they would fit on this card as well. Card, Mr. Senator Czerwiński. I'll just say it again. It is very readable and can be easily folded. The bar code is to be read, so there is no doubt about who will vote. Enough with the wheels. Because there are such ellipses here, mark what you are voting for, which is a very simple matter, and then put the card in the envelope and send it back, along with the code. And such a consultative referendum can be done in a very simple way, without much money and without any problem. What Senator Czerwinski said... I am aware that some people will come prepared for this referendum. It'll all depend on the referendum campaign. From what she's gonna be like. And it will be extensive, as I can assure you today. Because it's about covering the local elections and talking about 500+, talking about retirement age, etc. And it's gonna be all over the news, and it's gonna be all over the news, and it's gonna be all over the news. And since there are local elections, and then they'll be parliamentary... And that's why this campaign is going to happen, and that's why it's going to look like this. And now the question is, will whoever goes to this referendum have... Well, it takes about half an hour to answer those questions. If it's such a bigger card, you're gonna have to look, look... It's gonna take time. This will not encourage elections. Well, fortunately, these questions encourage elections, because everyone will want Christian roots, agriculture, family, one-mandate districts... Kukiz15, here you go. Not to mention 500+, and here's the incentive... That is why we can predict that 20% will go to this referendum. Great. But you can also, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, sit at home, calmly analyze it, mark these places, put it all in an envelope and send it back. And it wouldn't be a problem. I'm sure it would be easier for the sovereign... [[Yeah, but that's...]] Yeah, yeah, I'm talking to you because you brought it up. That would be very simple. You could read it quietly and cast your vote. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that the referendum will be. We know what's going on. It is a referendum campaign, which will be timely and have a specific purpose. Therefore, I have no doubt that you will support this referendum. And what the result will be, we'll talk about it later. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u107	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The constitutional referendum is a major social, political, organisational and financial undertaking. It should therefore bring adequate benefits to this effort. First of all, it should give an answer to the question about specific system solutions that Poles prefer. It should give an answer so that later those who took part in the referendum have no doubt about what solutions they have chosen. Unfortunately, the arrangement of these questions and their generality of such guarantees do not give. The first question raises trouble. Because what lessons can be drawn from the answer to this question? What is the difference for a citizen between the idea of writing a new constitution and the current change? After all, in fact, any element included in the referendum can be included both in the revised constitution and in the new constitution. But if you can imagine modifying as many as 10 problems in the referendum, it is hard to imagine creating a new constitution based on only 10 problems. So citizens will face a dilemma, whether, in favour of the new constitution, they give the green light to its re-editing, of course without knowing how other problems will be considered, included, I will remind you, in 243 articles. And if the dominant answer in the referendum is to leave the constitution unchanged, then what will the Poles say, specifying this answer? Does that mean they don't see the need for constitutional changes? Or do they not believe the initiator of the referendum in the purity of his intentions, do not believe that the constitutional referendum serves the idea of finding the best constitutional solutions, but other purposes? They will have the right to such suspicions, because the term of office of the current President of Poland, the initiator of the constitutional referendum, runs in an atmosphere of constant accusations at his address about breaking the Polish constitution. These accusations are so many and from so many sources, it is impossible to ignore them. The opposition politicians are talking about this, what can still be understood, legal authorities and scientists say, which should not be ignored anymore, and representatives of public and European institutions also say. Against the violation of the Constitution by the President, thousands of Poles protest, very often wearing T-shirts with the inscription "Constitution" or using other accessories that prove this threat, as I have equipped myself with such an accessory. It is therefore highly likely that a large number of Poles who choose to participate in the referendum will choose to leave the constitution because they do not believe in the nobleness of the President's intentions. And I am not going to apologize to the President for this suspicion, especially since there are no questions that relate to repeated accusations for years. How can one believe the sincerity of intentions, since the three-year battle for the independence of the judiciary, to respect the constitutional principle of three divisions of power, finds no reference in the referendum? Does this mean that for the President of Poland there is no doubt about the validity of protests and accusations, the scale of which is incomparable with any social acts of this kind in the Third Republic? If that is the case, there is no doubt to me that the referendum will be used for the current political environment from which the President originates. The choice of the term of the constitutional referendum also indicates that you want to play on emotions, not on substantive arguments, on emotions connected with the patriotic anniversary, and by the way to drown out the local government campaign, which was always uncomfortable for the PiS. This means that current targets are no less important than referendum targets. There is also a question about the purpose of the referendum. Due to the great generality of the referendum, he will not answer questions about specific systemic solutions. This generalization makes it necessary, regardless of the outcome of the referendum, to conduct a fundamental discussion on the system model, because the terms "President', "office', "single-mandate elections', "multi-mandate', "proper' are very large and are practically useless as a system solution without detail. The President claims that the referendum is of consultative importance. Thus, in order to consult with Poles, to find out what their views are, it can be done cheaper and more convenient, even by means of a common consultation, whose model Senator Piotr Florek presented just now on the example of the United States, which is trained in various kinds of democratic institutions. But from other statements by the President or the representative of the President, it appears that the weakness of polls and consultations is that they do not give a mandate for action, and the referendum gives such a mandate. And here the warning light is lit, because this means that this very general referendum can become an alibi for concrete actions aimed at changing the essential features of the Polish system. If in the manner in which the Constitutional Tribunal and the judiciary were politicized, then Poland must be defended against such a desire. I speak of this with regret, because I feel that there is a need for a debate on the Constitution in Poland. However, a climate of mutual trust is a prerequisite for such a discussion. I think there is no doubt that such a climate in Poland does not exist and in the perspective needed to implement the referendum, this authority, including the president, will not create such a climate, because where one party puts a loaded revolver, trust and discussion on the table are not possible. For the sake of clarity: for me, a revolver is an abuse of a political mandate for purposes for which this mandate does not authorise. In this situation, I take the referenda initiative as a propaganda action which, instead of a substantive concern, will generate even greater divisions in society, or as a pretext for systemic changes, which we do not know yet. I therefore suggest to the President that, regardless of the outcome of the Senate vote, he withdraw from this tainted initiative. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, one point. I'll be making a completely private statement... [[There's no private here.]] ...to convince the minister of some solutions and perhaps find a solution for the future. First thing. What is a referendum? It's a question of the nation, a question of citizens about matters. This question can be further clarified: do you ask when to ask how to ask and what to ask? As far as the first point is concerned, I fully agree with the President's proposal. To the question of whether, I answer yes. You should ask. As far as the remaining 3 questions are concerned, the answer is, unfortunately, no: not when it is proposed, not in this way and not in this way. Now I'm gonna try to justify it. First question: Do I ask? This question is part of the broader question, namely whether the time has come - Some of them. They call it a constitutional moment. A consultative referendum should be set up to change the constitution and whether a new constitution should be adopted in the process of this change. Yes. Why do I think it's time to change the constitution? For three reasons. I think we can all agree on that. The thing is, this constitution isn't perfect. Why? First of all, she's chatty. It has a lot of technical regulations that shouldn't be in the Constitution at all. Secondly, although it is so extensive, it contains gaps. The Constitutional Tribunal, and in its new composition and in its old composition, supplemented these gaps, e.g. giving an interpretation of what is a democratic rule of law in Article. 2 constitutions. The Constitution also contains something worse than gaps, namely contradictions. Just now we are observing how these contradictions work, one party reads the text of the constitution yes and the other one does. Of course, all you have to do is properly prepare the rules. Unfortunately, the Constitution is contradictory in itself when it is directly implemented, which you are inclined to do. Reason two. The authors of the Constitution are political forces which are no longer represented in parliament or are represented in a residual scope. What does that mean? Their time is up. The time of decrees whose fathers are these forces has passed. But we'll get to that. Who passed this constitution? The descendants remained after the deceased PZPR: SLD, its direct legal successor; PSL, i.e. the renamed ZSL, one of the outbuildings of the PZPR; the Labour Union will silence; and finally, the Union of Freedom consisting mainly of revisionists, i.e. individual individuals, who splashed away from PZPR at particular moments of history. These are the authors of this constitution. Where do we see them here? Well, there are single representatives, very prominent. There's also a residual club PSL, Pandon, ZSL, in the Sejm. That means that time is over. Reason three. This constitution is not congruent to the present time. Someone will say this: after all, in the United States there were only amendments made and the constitution lasted 200 years. But from a systemic point of view, these 200 years in the United States are much less than 20 years in Poland. Systemically, not calendarly. That's just the way it is. We come out of the deep darkness of a subordinate, non-sovereign, dependent state, we try to be a sovereign and independent state. And that's why this constitution is needed. She's just in her material layer. Not only as far as the question of authorship is concerned It no longer fits the current reality. And a new one needs to be announced. I agree with the President here, and thank you for bringing the President into the public debate. And it would be good. And I agree here, too. In the initial phase of the constitution, this mode, ask the nation about the main solutions. So we're here for a yes. We come to the second question: when? Well, unfortunately, not at the moment that is proposed in this decision. Why? The nation simply has the right to celebrate. Let him celebrate the century of independence. Just saying that we might not force the nation to speak on very important topics during the century of independence, paradoxically leads nowhere. Because will that mean that when it's 125 years old, 150 years since we're free, we're gonna force the nation to speak again? No. The time must come materially, not calendarly. I was just talking about it. Another point is that the attempt to create a national referendum on November 10th and 11th with a two-day vote, when local elections are nearby, we do not know yet... Of course, it can be done so that they don't overlap when it comes to the day, but when it comes to the week, they will already cover up. All of this can result in far-reaching repercussions. And the PKW knew about it, and she wrote about it. I wonder why the president's representatives didn't consult the PKW. The biggest charge concerns the election committees, the circuit boards, so we're clear. There will be problems because for the first time we will be practicing double committees for local elections, and we will still have to set up a third set of committees, because they will translate for at least two weeks, their existence, in the legal sphere. And then what? Two kinds of compromises are possible. The first is that we cannot convince citizens to participate in the referendum. That's what happened. That's how the previous president embarrassed himself. There'll be a turnout of 7%. ,8%, 10% , in kidnappings up to 12%. But one more kind of compromise is possible. The fact that we simply cannot organise this referendum in a responsible and effective manner. And then what? Like I said, It's not that date. Question: which one? Oh, it's already related to a broader problem, a view of the procedure for adopting a new constitution. That's what we're gonna get to at the end. Question is, how? Well, I'm sure it's not the way it is here. I tried to convince the Minister the most graphically. If you want 4 pages of A4 format to be placed on 1 sheet with a one-sided printed font of normal size, it will be A2 format and there will be problems with the format, with reading it, with Braille inserts and with everything you can imagine. Unfortunately, it is. These are facts, you don't argue with them. Could it have been avoided? Of course I do. The National referendum law does not require clarification of the meaning of the questions. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. But we already have a cook, we don't have a choice, we're just gonna have to print four A4 cards. Because in a project where you can't even move a comma, there's an explanation for a bite of 2.5 pages. What are we gonna do about it? I already did. Maybe I overreacted. This will be given to a person who is unprepared, who simply by civil coercion, let's call it, will come to the premises. And she's gonna get an A2 sheet and a text for five minutes of reading. Where's she gonna read it? In the cabin? In the next room? How do you imagine that? That's why I asked the Minister if he ever was a member of the circuit board. You have to be a member of the circuit board to understand what a vote looks like. If you didn't survive it, if you didn't participate in it, then just participating in the election, being a trusting husband, a proxy, it doesn't matter. You just have to live on your own. If you don't believe me, print yourself an example ballot and a Braille overlay. And we'll see what it looks like. The best way to find out is through experience. As far as the questions are concerned, how much more... [[Senator, time's up.]] Oh... We'll finish this later. Sign me up for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u111	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, Mr President, every president has the right to propose a national referendum on matters that are important for Poles and Poland. It is also clear that we in the Senate must hold a serious debate on such a project. I have the impression that such a serious debate is taking place. I express my satisfaction because despite such voices as: The voice of Senator Czerwiński, with whom I strongly disagree, is being debated. And that's a valuable thing. There is no such ostentation in breaking legislative procedures, there is no such knee-pushing of non-constitutional solutions, there is no such brutality from the Senate marshal as yesterday when we talked about matters equally important, because of the threat to the independence of the Polish judiciary. I am pleased that this discussion is taking place in a completely different atmosphere. It's very hot outside, but it's sometimes even hotter here in the senate room. Minister Mucha has been running like hell since yesterday to recommend the President's proposals. This morning, in this room, he spoke primarily to the Senators of the Civic Platform. Minister, this is the wrong address. It's not like the opposition has the majority in the Senate. If she had the majority, it wouldn't be an opposition. Those who decide on this should be addressed. And the decision is in the hands of the PiS senators. It is the PiS senators who will decide the fate of the President's proposal, because they have the right majority, a 2/3 majority. In the hands of the PiS senators is not only the fate of this particular initiative, but also the position of the President in the law and justice environment. I have no doubt about that. This decision depends on the importance of the President in the political family of the PiS in the future, with all these future consequences. I respect Mr Fly's efforts in this matter, fighting for the initiative of his boss and for his approval in the High House, but I stress once again that this initiative will be decided by the PiS senators. We as an opposition to this game called the internal game, party-political in the PiS family We don't want to interfere. We're not members of the PiS and we won't be in the future. Lord God, protect us from this. And therefore, as you can see, we maintain the right distance to this matter. This distance also comes from the fact that we are faithful to our Senator's oath. We have observed, observed, and will abide by the constitution on which we have sworn, becoming senators, some in many terms, others in this term of office. And we have one constitution. There is no other basic law at the moment, there is no such law, a law that regulates the whole of public life in Poland. The Constitution is one. We have doubts. as to whether the President's initiative will not undermine what is sacred to us, this constitution, which has been repeatedly violated, including by the PiS senators in this Chamber, also yesterday, during yesterday's vote. To sum up the number of laws in which the constitution has been broken, it will turn out that there are dozens of them, and the articles that were broken during the votes in this House, in this House, are dozens. Some of these situations are repeated very often. And here's the thing: since in legislative practice, the parliamentary majority, as is the case in the Seym, and in the Senate, is breaking the constitution... We don't want to put our hands on it, we don't want to put our hands to question its meaning through an initiative that talks about some new project, making questions on very general terms. Yes, you must ask the nation, Minister, yes, you can ask not only the nation in its entirety, but also the local communities in a referendum, respectively, national, in local referendums. However, more than 800 years of Swiss democracy, counting from 1291, is a time of constant questioning and settling cases in referendums. And Switzerland is a stable country, Switzerland is functioning well. Therefore, the question in referendums is correct, but this question is political, party-political. Hence our distance to this question. We believe, once again, that the current constitution must be respected, that the present constitution must be strengthened, that it cannot be weakened when it is the only document when it is the only framework governing our social life. There are, of course, countries such as the United Kingdom, which do not have a fundamental law and somehow function well. But in these countries, some laws are a substitute for the constitution, regulating fundamentals. This is also the case, but in our tradition it is that since 1791 it is the constitution, if Poland is an independent state, that is the basis of the political existence of the nation. Hence the distance I mentioned and the decision left in the hands of the parliamentary majority. Show concern for the constitution. I'm addressing the Senators of the PiS. You will also show concern for the position of the President, and you will also appear, well, I would say, concern for the future of the President in the next political rounds. I wouldn't have to say all this... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Last sentence. If it weren't for the fact that many are asking us, the opposition senators, what are you going to do? And I answer: you have to ask those who decide the future of this initiative and the position of the President in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Gawel. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 1997 Constitution, as some say, is the most beautiful child of post-communism on the eighth year after the transformations in Poland. In the sense of postcommunism, as Professor Jadwiga Stanishkis explains, a system that largely preserves the characteristics of the former system. Some records are even harmful. Uncontrolled third power, lack of mechanisms of political responsibility, dualism of executive power. She doesn't separate the powers between the authorities at all. Zbigniew Herbert, commenting on its adoption, when asked about the referendum, said that it confirmed a system of capitalist facades, the essence of which is a disdainful oligarchy, which occupies key offices. The executive power was blocked, over which he had illusory control of the parliament, actually the facade and increasingly facade role of the Senate, almost without trust in the sovereign, i.e. the nation... To conclude the statement on the Constitution, which is in force, I will say that it has completely defined the post-communist system. Next case. As for the referendum, I like the idea because the idea itself, to first ask the people about the direction, is right. So far, rather, ideas have been presented to the nation and they have been asked what to do next, even under a strong political influence. So the elites invented, and the nation was to accept. So there's a major change here. Mr. President wants to ask the nation what direction it's going to take first. And here's the thing: from idea to execution. The idea, as I have already said, I very much like it, but in order for this referendum to be effective, there would have to be a few circumstances together that I do not think will happen. The date of November 11th, the century of regaining independence, is a beautiful day to speak about the future of the system, but it is only a theory, because we will witness an increasingly escalated political conflict. In fact, you can say that there are bridges burning between us, graves being ripped off. And until the situation in the country is calmed down, it's not like we're gonna be pissing each other off, what people are watching on different televisions. 'Cause what they're gonna turn on depends, unfortunately, on what their views are. As long as it is not possible to seriously discuss the creation of a proper law that will strengthen the Republic. Moreover, the reference experience in Poland is unfortunately not very good. In order to properly hold a referendum, we should really use a good propaganda campaign based on strong emotions. The number of questions is unacceptable, as is their scope. I'd like a referendum to ask the people who's to rule. [[Voice from the hall: Sovereign...]] Should he rule the president, or should he rule the office? I would like to know what law is superior in Poland, in short, in a simple way, to say whether Timmermans or Poles are to rule in Poland. You may ask further, but broadening the scope of questions is starting to lead to a situation that is unfortunately incomprehensible. Those who have observed various elections and referendums in Poland have seen that people entering the polls are lost, only at this point they start reading what it says. We all have doubts ourselves, let alone an ordinary voter. And yet this is supposed to be a referendum for ordinary people, everyone has to understand that. About what I'm gonna do, 'cause we're gonna vote on it tonight... I supported the President, I still support him, but unfortunately I will have to take part in this self-harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Spider. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Well, there's been a lot of speeches here that I very much agree with, and maybe it's a waste of time to take them back to repeat them, and I think I was most served by my previous speaker, taking the floor right in front of me. Just a few remarks, because I'm neither a constitutionalist nor a lawyer, or rather, when I'm over 60 years old, more practice or possibly... Well, being in local governments for almost 28 years, I have some experience and a look at it through such a little personal prism. I think it is very useful and sensible to seek a change of constitution. The very idea is noble, the very announcement is very good. I think there's a lot of support for changing the constitution in society... You could say big, you could say very big. And I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of arguments. Various speeches, surveys, people's statements, parliamentarians are moving in this direction. But now the question is how to do it. Well, Mr. President's made a start. But haven't there already been big mistakes at that beginning and been given such a direction that it's going to be difficult now, let's say, to move on wisely? Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline. Well, I can't understand that the political forces, some central people, who are the helmmen of the nave of this country, haven't talked, haven't discussed how to set this path, how to do it, how to set a deadline, so that it doesn't interfere. Next thing you know, questions. Well, if it were like 15 questions first, then I would definitely say no, because... well, I don't want to be mean, but sometimes there were questions about whether butter should be buttery or water should be wet. Yeah, something like that, right? These 10 questions are completely different questions. But does it take so many? I'm having a lot of doubts. Personally, I think that these should be 4, 5 very specific, short questions, to which the answer should be clear. They should primarily concern the changes in the system, the reconstruction of this country, because on what foundations it is today, we know. What should these questions be about? Fundamental government questions must above all concern the guarantee of sovereign sovereignty, which is the nation. A nation must be able to exercise power either through its representatives This is about the election of representatives to Parliament. Or directly through a referendum. The Sejm is the supreme institution of the state, the institution that sets up the government, i.e. the executive authority, and decides indirectly to fill hundreds of key positions in the State. The quality of the Sejm will be determined by the quality of the elected Members, and the quality of the Members shall be determined by the way in which their social and political election election is selected. And here I will allow you to quote Jan Nowak-Jezioranski from 2003. No country will be able to sustain itself if most citizens see an enemy in him. The source of this deadly disease, which is the excess of stubbornness, is nothing more than the most dangerous form of corruption. You should look in the current electoral ordination. It weakens the bond between a Member or a Senator and his constituents. The current electoral system makes the elected representative dependent on his party authorities. It is them, not the voters, who decide whether the candidate will be in the right place on the electoral list and whether he will have a chance to succeed. This is a 2003 statement. For a good cause, one can ask whether we all have passive electoral rights and all Poles are therefore equal. No, because the Sejm can be successfully run by those on the list. The others don't stand a chance. Does everyone have an active electoral right? No, because they only vote for the ones on the list, and they can't vote on the others. Therefore, I believe that the basic, short question that should be here is: are you in favour of majority ordination? Ladies and gentlemen, I have been through a lot of these choices and I do not believe that this one-mandate system will be a salvation, a cure for everything, a remedy for which a paradise will be established in Poland. No. Doctors speak here as well... What does someone who's got cancer have to do with cancer? Yeah, he's cutting it out. Right? Whether the result is positive or not, whether the disease is metastatic, we do not know that. But I'm sure there's one thing. That you have to cut it out. I think there should be one short question in this case. The next question is the referendum, the direct elections. Good decision about the question, because it's a question... It's in our referendum. But the outcome of this referendum must be the law. It cannot be that the will of the sovereign, the nation, is acceptable or unacceptable, that after the referendum it may be so, it may be so. No, she can't be subject to any annulment by Parliament. So the results of this referendum should be the law. It is written in this question. I'm also a positive judge of the presidential system. I think there's a clear distinction to be made here. Today it happens that voters choose a Member or a Senator who, for example, goes after six months. to the voivodeship, so there must be another election. Or go to the government, go back, go to the government... And the voters chose to be a Member or a Senator for four years, that's clear. And if, for example, There are 20, 30 Members in the government... They will go to the Sejm in a moment and vote for what the government wants. My previous speaker was talking about it. And if he's voting on discharge... Then he's the judge on his own case. So this should be settled. Here's another thing. The judicial authority. It's been left out at all, there's not a single specific question, and I think that of all these authorities, this power is the most shut down, it's focused on itself. Let me also quote Montescius here, because we refer to the three divisions of power, the constitution, that he has three divisions of power, and sometimes we do not listen to these classics at all. The Court's authority It says, "Oh, yeah, It should be exercised by persons appointed of the people, at certain times of the year, in a manner prescribed by law, in order to create a tribunal that lasts only for as long as it is necessary. In this way this so dangerous judicial authority, without being attached either to a certain state or to a certain profession, becomes, you can say, invisible and none. There are still no judges in front of the eyes, and there is no such fear. Because fear should be aroused by government, not officials. [...] It is even necessary for the judges to be of the same state as the accused, or even of his equals, to think that he fell into the hands of people willing to rape him. It's Montescius. And before that, Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski also wrote about it: "Everyone should be allowed to complain about the judge. It cannot be that the judge, giving extremely unfair, biased judgment, remains unpunished in his injustice. These are classics. Is there any question about this referendum? [[There are dependent judges here.]] Is that what we'd be trying to do? That, too, I think, is another basic issue. So that's my point: there should be four, five quick, unambiguous questions that the Sovereign would have pointed out to the president as to how to prepare these questions. Alternatively, these questions had to be prepared in advance, short, and for two years to talk to people, explain what the difference would be when it was like this or so. As a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is all happening in a century... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'll use that later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u117	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Professor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, there is a reflection that comes from this discussion, in which many speakers in general deny the President's right to open this debate. I have to say, I'm amazed. In a situation where I think everyone sees that the constitution, although it is important, is not sacred and it is not perfect... In fact, there's no doubt that you need to talk about her possible change. Moreover, the Constitution contains an article. 235, which says it can be changed. So we're just in some normal way, talking about how you have to think about what, when and how to change. There's nothing weird about it. Moreover, no one plans to do this by breaking the current constitution. At the moment, we are talking... the President is proposing a great deal of discussion about what to change, what to change, what to do, and yet the way to adopt this constitution is set out in the current constitution, and no one is going to violate that principle. So everything is done according to the rules. And denying in general the very accession to the reflection on the Constitution, because there is a particular moment, in my opinion, is completely unjustified. However, in my speech, I would not like to focus on what is basically the subject of today's discussion, i.e. the mere acceptance of the referendum, but I would like to focus on what I think is most important. These questions, some of them, are basically rhetorical. You can immediately see the good sense of the president as the author, in which direction we should move, and there is a great probability that the majority of voters will say: yes, this is the right direction. And that would give a mandate to prepare concrete solutions in the constitution in this direction. That's a very reasonable, wise way to ask. Because these questions are rhetorical, but they do not reduce their weight, and in principle the answers that will be given to them, because it will be a strong basis for preparing a constitutional act in the future, which will actually be based on the will of the nation. I would therefore like to speak on one of the questions, not yet knowing what the fate of this referendum will be. That's question eight, the question to which... Well, in my opinion, it's really hard to imagine that someone would answer that question. This is a question about family protection and some aspects of health protection. I will remind them: are you in favour of constitutional guaranteeing the protection of the family, motherhood and fatherhood, the inviolability of acquired rights of the family and the right to special health care of pregnant women, children, disabled people and the elderly? Well, it's hard to imagine that someone will respond. But I'm sure it'll be a solid basis. And I would like to draw attention, as if asking for a possible further work going in this direction, to what, certainly because we expect such an answer, should take place as a second step. First of all, I imagine the first part about family, which is... I very much like the fact that this protection is meant for both family, motherhood and fatherhood. It's a novelty and it's a very good thing that it is. I would also like to very much support the idea of protecting acquired rights. I understand what is in parenthesis, that is, the 500+ provision, not so much as to include this solution in the Constitution or the plan to save it in the Constitution, but, above all, to adopt the principle that the situation of families cannot be worsened in subsequent legal solutions. That's how I understand this direction. This is extremely important to me. And I am thinking that one way to solve this problem would be to introduce, perhaps even at constitutional level, an obligation to assess the impact of the regulations being prepared for their impact on the family. This is, in my opinion, one such solution that could guarantee that, regardless of whether acts are being prepared directly concerning the family or any other area, each act is evaluated for the importance of the family for the future of Poland. In my opinion, this is to be considered, when it comes to such a reality at all, such a real guarantee that the family is protected now and will be protected better and never worse in the future. As far as the second part of this question is concerned, i.e. the introduction of a guarantee of entitlement to special health care for some, these 4 categories of people, I understand that in this question, which is most likely to be accepted by all, is of course the thought that all pregnant women, all children, all disabled people and every elderly person will have such a right to special care. In my opinion, these questions are lacking, and perhaps, if that is not the case, it is worth considering the inclusion of this in the Constitution when it is formulated in the future, the statement that by granting a particular right to health protection or, otherwise, the right to special health protection to these categories of persons... It is worth considering granting to all the right to health protection understood as such a right which we do not grant to insured persons, one way or another, just to everyone. And I think it's the sound of today's art. 68 is an example of just a poor solution around which one can discuss who really has the right to health protection. I think that if there were a provision in the future constitution that everyone actually has the right to health protection and some have the right to health protection, it would be a very good solution. To conclude, I will add a little bit to the discussion at all about the future of the Constitution: what I lack among these questions But not because I want to criticize this catalogue, I just think that these are important things too, and this is a debate in which it is worth talking about the important things that should be settled in the Constitution. This is just a small indication of the issue of the fourth power, of which there is no mention in the Constitution at all, and which fourth power is often stronger than all three, which, in terms of numbers, precedes it. I think this is one of the areas where it is worth considering whether an accent should be included in the Constitution. And finally, because of my experience in life, the issue of public trust... I think it's something in the constitution, too, I'd say, so lamely solved. I mean, if we're reading today's constitution... First things first: Art. 15 talks about decentralisation of power, followed by art. 16 on territorial self-government, Art. 17 about the self-government of the public trust professions. And then we have articles that talk primarily about supervision. And just as the supervision of the Council of Ministers over local government is mentioned in the article. 148, there is no rule on the supervision of local governments of public trust. In turn, as regards the sources of law, Article. 87 we have a mention of the fact that in the area which is administered by a local government unit, the source of the law is local law, but the decisions of local governments of public trust are no longer the source of the law. I think that there must be some order here, because professional self-government is an important element of civil democracy in Poland. If you want to put the constitution in order, you should also think about it. To sum up, I believe that the discussion on what is in the Constitution to be changed is, first and foremost, very empowered and deliberate, and, assuming that all this will be done in compliance with the rules, I see no danger in that. I also have a personal... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...the doubts about the procedure that was adopted in this decision, but this is another matter and I would not like to discuss it. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Piotr... Excuse me. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your attention. Minister, I will be the only one here who will bring some optimism to the idea of the President, because, as I see, my colleagues on the right have not done their homework, and today they are filling you with doubts not to say no support, and I have concluded that this should be preceded by what you have said in the case of the pre-war constitution. So in order to take the next step, even in the form of a new constitution, a full review of the existing one should be carried out. This has not been done and I would like to ask for, and possibly the consumption of this request, not for this provision, will be concluded later. However, I would like to speak 'Cause everybody's warming me up for it. - about the questions. There's 10 of them. Yeah, definitely a lot. But I'll tell you, the first question that's usually the most important. After all, people start with him and it is probably also the most important meaning... Are you in favour of adopting a new Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Don't you think? I'm talking to everyone here. That, in fact, the majority's vote on this is a challenge to the existing constitution? I know, of course, that you will say that it will be in force until the new constitution is adopted, but this time, as the Minister said, will be at least six months, because firstly, it must be written, secondly, it needs to be discussed, approved, and it does not know how. Then there will be a question, a public discussion, whether this constitution is worth anything at all, the one we live by. But what's more, if Senator Czerwiński, as I recall, was behind the new constitution on the first question, would you like to cast a blind vote of support without knowing what the next proposal would be? I understand that you have confidence in the President, and I don't want to question that, but trust is one thing, and knowledge of constitutional things, and you often show that we are wrong, including you, rarely, but shows that we are wrong... Well, it's already blind, especially since the constitution is supposed to cover many aspects of life. So this first question is wrongly formulated, because it should be said: are you in favour of adopting a new Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which will be based on such and such values? At least then I'd have a choice by deleting the current constitution. And that's how I introduce a timeless period in which the present constitution is evil, and the new one is not yet there. I understand that most often the choice will concern, of course, if people get acquainted with it, the second answer, because it gives such a conformistic luxury. It announces a change to the Constitution, and its development is a kind of security policy: for health reasons, and that is because of pensions, and that is because of the holding of an agricultural holding. The majority will then, of course, choose these answers. But there are difficult questions here, though necessary. And I have a question that I don't have an answer for: what happens when most people I'm gonna admit a little bit of ignorance here. The bars in which the answers will be specified will simply leave, they will be empty and most of these bars will be empty? Question: Will this vote be valid in its entirety, and only the answers to these questions will be annulled due to the lack of votes or the advantage of empty votes? The question must be answered: Does an unfilled grille mean a valid or invalid voice? It's different in different ordinations. And finally, the last thing we said at the committee meeting was the ninth question, and I know a little bit about these things. It's the sum again. 2.3 solutions. Are you... [[But, Senator...]] Now, Mrs. Marshal. But you're gonna have to mark the right grate, and I'm gonna explain it to you. The social market economy, what is it? [[We're gonna have an interview...]] What's this? [[...after the session.]] And why is this about retirement? Because someone could be behind the social economy... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...but against such pensions and vice versa. [[Time.]] Well, it's kind of absurd, it's like a lelum. flulum . [[Mr. Senator, time...]] Time, time, Mrs. Marshal... [[Thank you...]] ...but now you know how to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u121	I know. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I know how from the beginning, but I listen very carefully. You're welcome, Senator Jan Żaryn. Five minutes too, Mr. Senator, right? [[Yeah, five minutes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to draw attention to a human aspect of this referendum and I would like to address it to you, Minister. One of the questions, undoubtedly fundamental, regarding whether we should have a presidential or office system in the future constitution, is developed by a specific person, i.e. Mr Andrzej Duda, who is a relatively young man, who is a dynamic man and who shows that his presidency does not fit in today's constitutional canon in the sense that on the one hand he has a huge social mandate due to the general elections, from which his position has grown up and on the other hand the constitutional provisions restrict his natural capabilities. People voted not for Bronisław Komorowski, but for Andrzej Duda in part I'm not saying that it's just Because they wanted a dynamic president, not sitting under a lamp. And that's a question for you, Minister. Namely, to what extent can you tell us what is the idea of the current President for what will happen if, in the next term, he is President and he has exactly the kind of authority he would like to be in a new constitution, a constitution defining the presidential system? Are we really a nation with certain traditions, but also in the absence of certain traditions, prepared for the presidential system, such as it is. in France, also existed in Poland? Let me remind you, we don't have that kind of tradition. We're kind of closer mentally. At least that's what I hope. This is the idea that in the Second Republic of Poland the March Constitution was clearly a democratic constitution and that we want to appeal to it, and not necessarily to the April Constitution, which, however, grew up in the bombing. Let this human aspect sound out of your mouth here, Minister. I am asking about the President, how he sees this particular point, which seems to be the most individualized element here from the point of view of the person making these questions. It is a request to emphasise such a human dimension of the forthcoming referendum. That's another line. We accept both assumptions today during the debate. The first is that we support this referendum. Then, of course, the Senate and the President's Office are involved as co-responsible in the preparation of the debate. I don't think there's any further development. But what if we reject it today? I would like to express my hope that the Senate will not abandon the President and, in accordance with its capabilities and prerogatives, will co-create what will be discussed further and perhaps prepare, together with the President, a better option of referenda questions. I hope that we will not abandon our hands and the constitutional referendum will really take place. I think that such a date, which would be very good and at the same time limit for the work on an alternative option, is the date which will of course again cause an avalanche of comments: That's right, I'm talking about 2 and 3 May 2019. [[Time.]] Just so we're so optimistic, I'm done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. This is your first performance, so you have 10 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to express my thanks to President Andrzej Duda and the President's Chancellery for launching a public debate on improving the constitution of our country on behalf of a group of senators from the parliamentary law and justice club. The Constitution is the most important piece of legislation in the country, reflecting the values on which social life is built. As a nation, we continue to learn and mature, and therefore the fundamental law must also be considered and, when necessary, the necessary correction. Power should constantly listen to the voice of the citizens, so we reaffirm the value of the referendum as a tool for deciding on the direction of strategic solutions in our country. We see outstanding educational and state-creating values of a general social dialogue around the Constitution. At the same time, we hope that the President's concern for a national agreement and reconciliation will continue and will lead to the expected results. As Senators of the Republic of Poland, we declare assistance and support in all areas that will be needed to achieve these noble goals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u125	Thank you, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You have five minutes, Senator. Yes? That's what I wrote down. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the Supreme Court of the United States, Ms. Ruth Ginsburg, nominated by Bill Clinton, a judge with strong left-wing views. He also sat there nominated by President Reagan Antonin Scalia with ultrarighteous views. In the course of the proceedings, they argued very strongly, while the paparazzi caught them on a trip to India, when they were riding on one elephant in one league. And then Antonin Scalia, a conservative to the core, replied that he was fighting ideas, not people. And that should be the case for us in the constitutional debate. I was thinking about what I could do to offend your president. Perhaps it was the word Idioten, although it was a quote from the German proverb. I would like to make it clear that this was absolutely not addressed to the person of the President or to any other person. This was just an example of the fact that we should not repeat the mistake that it had to be made clear that the referendum announced by Bronisław Komorowski was a referendum. I wish all of us, in this debate, to be guided by our own mind, our own will, and that people remember that in the Senate the discussion is at the same level as the higher chamber of parliament, of which Frycz wrote that this is a chamber which other authorities are supposed to stimulate to fine works, and from the wicked to delude. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Defend me, God, from my friends, because I can handle my enemies by myself. After an in-depth analysis of the draft referendum, carried out by the Senators of Law and Justice, I think that actually about the project itself there is nothing to say, because it would already be lynching rather than criticizing the idea. The Senators of Law and Justice, very insightful, skinned the idea, and just now, as journalists informed me, leaving one of the rooms, the spokesperson of Law and Justice, Mrs Mazurek, said that the President sometimes uses his powers, I understand that she meant a veto, but the Senate can also exercise certain powers. Quite simply and truly, Mr. Marshal Terlecki said that there is no constitutional majority. I would not like to carry out exegesis, as it might mean in the context of voting. Of course, the idea of asking citizens to give them the opportunity to decide is very good, but there will always be an odium on this idea that a very large part of society, many citizens, thinks that the President has not done the job of a constitutional guardian properly. And that's probably gonna be the biggest problem for him to be the patron of the creation of a new constitution. You accused the senators of the Civic Platform that they were looking at this project differently, and otherwise at the project that you presented to President Komorowski. But, Minister, there was one rather simple question. [[Voice from the room: 3 questions...]] Okay, those were three simple questions. And here are 10 very complicated questions that are out of focus. They're really not sharp. And look at this one, she didn't quite understand the formula that we don't have... This is what Senator Borowski said earlier: at the moment when the votes are shared, it may be that it will be necessary to do this will of the nation expressed by a minority. Well, it's not so much a procedural problem, not so much a real problem, not so much a material problem, but a logical problem. The logic is already, and it's very big. Because how to postpone what we asked today, how to reschedule the answer, yes or no... I asked that question about the disabled. How do you translate this record, even very strong, to make sure it's not 500 zlotys and 1 thousand 500 zlotys? Well, that's impossible. But I'm coming back... It is symptomatic of this debate. Because, according to the President, as the Minister said, this is a big holiday, a big event for democracy, then a 10% turnout on the coalition side will not reflect the importance of this problem. And mostly we heard here... Of course, each of these speeches by the Senators of Law and Justice was commendable, only if you look at the conclusions, it turned out that they were built like a funeral speech. I mean, we're grateful, we respect, it's a great life, but unfortunately we're gonna have to go back to it some other time. What is an event and a celebration, Minister, since when we discussed this point in committee, it was the first time in this term that the efficient one It's like a roller. The camera of colleagues from the Law and Justice was so jammed that 1/3 of them did not come and the next 1/3 abstained? Well, it's, to put it mildly, at least a clear signal. There's nothing here that I've been talking about for a moment, not just a clear way to translate the answers to these questions into records... Because we agreed that, after the answers, the President's proposal could be completely arbitrary. And then there's what Marshal Terlecki was talking about, namely, where's the clear majority if there's not even a minority that supports this idea? Mr. Minister, unfortunately, so do I. ! Supporting this fantastic idea and enjoying the President's opportunity... And I would like you to believe me, believe me, for this to happen, for this referendum to take place. But I'm afraid it's going to be like the book by Nikos Kazandzakis, the Greek Zorba. There's this final scene when it's all... [[In the movie, too. It's a beautiful disaster.]] ...turns over Yeah, in the movie too. And the words of this beloved worker, the Greek Zorby, fall down: Chief, what a fantastic disaster. [[What a beautiful...]] But the problem is, Minister, whatever the outcome is here, the finale will unfortunately be the same. Because either there's gonna be an image disaster after the vote today... But, as my previous speakers from Law and Justice have shown you, this disaster will be even greater if they say yes. This is not a good forecast for today's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czerwinski speaks. Five minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you of four questions: when, how, and what to ask our citizens? How? According to the National referendum law, the referendum is to provide a positive or negative answer to the question raised, or It's a separate alternative. . making a choice between the proposed options. So either questions or variants. Minister, you have presented here a set of questions, even in the guide letter we have the wording of questions, and indeed 10 segments are questions, they start with questions, and they end with a question mark. But in reality, 4 of them are variants and this unfortunately introduces a certain element of chaos. Second The questions should be ranked either from the most important to the least important, or according to the presence of these issues in the Constitution, in line with the content of the Constitution, which we will then propose on the basis of the answers to these questions. Unfortunately, that's not there. And here's the question: will it be easy for an average citizen to vote on such formulated and aggregated issues? I don't think so. But it's even worse, Minister. How we will examine individual questions And we can't change their content, but we'll see that they're not defending themselves. A simple example: question four. What are we for, in favour of elections in one-mandate electoral districts (the majority system) or in multi-date electoral districts (the proportional system)? But there can also be a proportional and majority system in the many-day electoral districts. Please tell me if it wouldn't be easier not to repeat this record when explaining it, but simply say that if it's an election, it's a majority in one-mandate districts... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: But there is a written...]] ...as we choose in the municipalities up to 20,000 inhabitants, and if not, it is proportional in multi-ndat, as we choose e.g. Members. Each of the voters, as far as elections go, will know what system it is. And here's my next point. The explanations to the questions are simply the questions quoted. That's really not gonna help. I don't want to analyze other people anymore... Just one clue. That's what hit me the most, Minister. Question: Are you in favour of constitutional regulation of membership of the European Union and NATO? Incidentally, it is a conjunction, so there will be no choice whether it is in the Union and not in NATO, or vice versa, in NATO, yes, and not in the Union. But let's just leave it at that. Well, Minister, do you know what I'm getting mixed up with? With the introduction of undying love to the Soviet Union in the Peerellian Constitution, perhaps in 1976. I don't want that kind of question! [[And I was afraid to say it.]] [[Applause]] I don't want such questions, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] But what does that mean next? That means from this point on, I'm telling you how it's supposed to be. [[Time's running out.]] That's why I'm going to the point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister... [[Mr. Senator...]] What can we do about it? Well, first of all, adopt a Constitutional Act, then prepare questions, agree a National referendum law with the electoral code, give ourselves some time and when we are ready, actually carry out a consultative referendum, perhaps with fewer questions. After all, such a consultative referendum can be introduced into the content of the Constitutional Procedure Act. With this legal basis, once the questions have been formulated, you can ask the nation, ask our citizens what kind of constitution they want. [[Time...]] But that's what we should do together: and the Senate, and the Sejm, and the President. [[Thank you very much...]] And that's what I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki, please speak. [[Just please, Mrs. Marshal, count off... well, I've got a job to prepare for myself.]] Okay, okay, yeah. We'll wait till you're ready.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a presidential referendum proposal. I would like to make it very clear that the referendum institution as a tool for citizens to express their opinions or make decisions is a very interesting tool and it is worth considering that it should be introduced into the Polish system to some extent. But they need to be introduced in a way that does not question the institutions of the referendum. Such a question mark could put an institution in a position where a referendum would have a very weak turnout. We already have one referendum that I voted for. I admit, like Senator Pociej, it was a mistake. And that was President Komorowski's referendum. Two of these referendums have been successful lately. The first is a referendum on the approval of the Constitution of 1997 and the second is a referendum on Poland's accession to the European Union. But there were very clear questions, everyone, even someone who was farthest from politics, knew what he was voting for. Here Mr. President presents us with 10 very complicated questions. It's impossible for citizens in their mass, let's say, even though it's an ugly word... to be clear to them. So I have the right to suppose, it seems to me quite logical, that attendance in this referendum will be like in the referendum ordered by President Komorowski, or 8%. or less, and that in fact this will eliminate in the future the possibility of using this institution in the Polish political system. Then why is the President doing this? I have a theory. I think it's some idea, some way for the president to mark his distinctness, his independence from the PiS camp. Only if there's such a low turnout, it'll hit your president. And why do I believe that the Law and Justice are de facto against this proposal? We hear the voices of Minister Suski that the deadline is wrong, Mr Terletki, Mrs Mazurek, we finally have the result of the vote at the meeting of the Legislative Commission at which the vote of the Civic Platform was rejected, for the first time in this term of office something like this happened. Well, my interpretation is this. First of all, the PiS sees that the President wanted to make this referendum a tool to show his independence from law and justice, and that, of course, does not appeal to law and justice. But the second argument is that the Law and Justice, whose leadership, whatever it is to say, has much more political experience than the President, knows that the turnout flop of this referendum will, of course, strike the President in the first place, but also somehow into the Law and Justice as a political camp which the President has set up for the presidency. And therefore, de facto for these 2 reasons Law and Justice is against this proposal. I don't think it's wrong, I think it's the law and justice that wants to help you get out of this referendum clinch. And I wouldn't worry about that if I were Minister Fly. And finally, what am I gonna do? At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I abstained from voting and I am seriously considering I haven't made a final decision yet, but I'm considering This is to hold off in the final vote as well. Because I think the President, if this referendum passes, is going to hurt himself politically. But if a fully responsible adult in an important public position wants to hurt himself... [[He wants to kill himself.]] ...and he's been doing it for months with the utmost urgency of a better cause, and that's what he should be allowed to do. That is why I am considering abstaining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider. Five minutes, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I haven't finished my previous speech long enough. I told you it would be good if there were less questions, so that they were short and unambiguous. And I think it's gonna happen in the future. ♪ Bo ♪ That's also what I said at the beginning. There is no doubt that this constitution needs to be changed as soon as possible. And even this anniversary, the 100th anniversary of regaining independence is such an imperative, such a force as to continue to do so. On the other hand, it is also such a remarkable date for me that it was in 2016 that another twenty-five quarters of a century began in the history of Poland and then the president began his office. And I think there's some time here to calmly prepare a constitution like this, do it, and pull as much power as possible to support it. Because there is no doubt that, in order to build a strong state, we need a clear, unambiguous constitution based on the values that the people represent and the principles that they want their power to function. And I think that at that time, this jubilee year we need to remember especially the time when the constitution was abolished, when there was no Polish state, when we were under partitions. So that the words of Juliusz Słowacki will never repeat again: Poland! But they're deluding you with trinkets! You were the peacock of the nations. And a parrot, and now you're someone else's maid. For this to never happen, we need a particularly strong country, and we also need a nation, a strong nation, and a number of people. Because when it comes to demographics, it's also a disaster. And let the president and his team continue to work on this constitution, and let them present further work. Because, I think, well, looking at myself, it's gonna be hard for me... I'm sure I won't mind, as I said at first, but it's hard for me to support this referendum, so... there's still a third possibility. And just as I say that this constitution should be created so that this country can function in such a way that, in turn, in this anniversary resolution, we say and quote the words of Leopold Staff: "Poland, you are no longer a slave!" But the biggest thing to do is to be yourself... Let there be a constitution that will make it so strong and strong that Poland will always remain itself. And I think on this anniversary of the century, we all have to wish it with all our heart in the Senate. And I think that sooner or later such a constitution will be adopted, worked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u135	Thank you. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the first time I am a senator of the Republic of Poland, this is my first term of office. I must say, Minister, that since I started this honorable work here, since I began serving as an honorary senator in this House, for the first time on this speaker of high rank government official, Minister, has behaved like you, Minister. And thank you for that. I'll explain what's going on. For the first time in a serious political discussion, in my opinion fundamental, in a discussion about the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, about what is our foundation, the foundation of the functioning of our country, our homeland, the representative of the ruling party today or the governing camp, because it is necessary to look at it more comprehensively, he considered me as a senator, but also, I think, the whole opposition, not as an enemy, but as an opponent, not as an enemy, but as a political opponent who may have a different opinion. And that's really what I think the essence of politics is. After all, if we are all unanimous, our country will not move forward or develop. If we go the same way, where will the development be, where will our progress be? It is worthwhile to have different goals, but it is also worth convincing each other. And once again, Minister, for this attitude, which, from this speaker, has been shown by you, thank you very warmly, because it pours into my heart the hope that perhaps in the future this policy will begin to change, that this language of aggression, battle, political struggle will change, however, into a substantive and interesting dispute about the future of our country in which we, our children, our grandchildren live. The only reason I'm sorry is because it's so rare. Yeah, but at least one important thing worked out. Minister, I am listening to this debate, to questions, but also to what has been going on for months or for weeks as regards the referendum and the initiative of the President. I think the first problem and the big mistake... maybe not the mistake, the big problem. The big problem, which really appeared on the way to the success of the President of the Republic of Poland, is that his background or political party, which won elections, Law and Justice, however, built such an atmosphere, such a dispute or political war, that the president today is difficult to overcome with such an idea that could be a pure, interesting idea, separated from this current policy, from this dispute or political argument. That these laws, often pushed by their knees in the Seym at night, unfortunately without the possibility of debate, without the possibility of listening to the opposition, to what he has to say... When we really want to say that we have a different view on a given matter, that we see the provisions of the law differently, we want to talk about it, we want to convince, and this conversation or this dialogue is violently interrupted. Yesterday, we had this example when the Senate's room immediately asked us to stop the discussion, to close the discussion, to limit the discussion. Well, he's actually putting himself in a very difficult position. And when the political camp that is behind the president and brought him to this honorable office, it also goes against itself, because in the last term of office... I will remind the president of Jarosław Kaczyński, who said: the opposition is ignored. And right after that followed the whole democratic package, so-called. democratic, who gave the opposition the opportunity to speak, I will say more: even creating a agenda in the Parliament or the Senate. And when this democratic project is to be the foundation of the work of the new power, and it turns out that it is gone and there is a more brutal fight against the opposition, a war against the opposition... That is why it is very difficult for the President to overcome the idea of referendum or debate on how the constitution needs to be changed. That's too bad. One of the senators said you needed a dynamic president. Perhaps so, except that this dynamism or the president's youth was actually drowned in the political war and the brutal behaviour of the majority. And in the Seym and the Senate, unfortunately, it is so, Minister, that arithmetic is the queen of everything, and it is the majority of votes that depend on everything. And at any time you can make a motion to close the discussion, the list of speakers or to limit the debate, even in the Senate, as it turns out, and actually gag the mouth of the opposition. It is a pity that this is happening because perhaps even today's discussion of the Constitution would be completely different. It is also a pity that in such an important matter, so important, fundamental, the back of the President I am not thinking about ministers and co-workers here, I am thinking about MEPs, and today especially about senators of the Republic of Poland who belong to the club of the United Right There's no backup. Because that's exactly what you see today. And it is a pity that these arguments or comments that we hear so beautifully today, as Senator Alexander Pociej said, which praises the President so much and at the same time they say, but you are wrong, we will not back you up, it did not rain during your visits to the marshal or at the meeting of the club much earlier. Because I think it is bad for the debate on the Constitution, that even the back of the President does not support this conclusion that at first he praises, but then, in his speech, one of the senators states that later we will be working again on a possible referendum. Unfortunately, it's sad, but it's real. We're witnessing it. Minister, if it is as we predict that Law and Justice will not support this proposal, perhaps it is worth talking about it in a question and then there was no time, I would like to develop it. Return a little differently to the idea of discussing changes to the Constitution. I respect the view of the President and you, Minister. You explained that you had a different philosophy. That you wanted to go to Poles and Poles first, ask them about directions, which is logical, which can also be interesting. But if the Senators of Law and Justice don't understand what's on the ballot, and they're asking what's in the fourth or fifth question, how big, not big, it's not necessary at all, I think, to discuss in this Chamber. From printing cards to referendums, from determining the size of this card and the philosophy of voting is the State Election Commission, not the Senate. The Senate, the High House, is to deal with the merits of the matter, really the foundation of the matter. Whether a referendum is needed or not. And if so, what is it? And how do we change the constitution so that it is for the opposition and for the rulers? But... no, I take it back. Excuse me, Minister. The point is that she should be for Poles and Poles, so that she would be a guarantee of justice, tolerance. For the Constitution to give us a sense of security of life in our homeland. And I miss this debate here today in the Senate. I am missing the dialogue about the foundation, about the whole being presented by the President of the Republic of Poland and you, as his representative, today in this Chamber. Maybe it's worth coming back because we've already done this and it passed the exam, even though there were those who didn't agree with the work on the constitution that we passed in 1997... But as we look at the history of that time, the length of discussions, debates, discussions and really integration or inviting different environments, even very opposed, to this debate, so that the constitution is really for everyone to feel that the constitution is mine, and my colleague, my neighbour, that this is our common work... And this, Minister. Here I will insist on my own, and not only in our conversations in Szczecin or in West Pomerania, but also here today, in this room. In the President's initiative, I lacked the fact that perhaps at first it was worth inviting those who made the most important decisions, former presidents, under the rule of the Constitution. And if it did happen As the Minister said, That there were such statements, it might be worthwhile to reverse the situation and first invite individual former presidents, and have a conversation with them, and convince them, saying, "Come, we will talk about it and then announce it in the media." Invite the Marshals of the Sejm, former prime ministers, former ministers of justice, heads of the Constitutional Court, judges of the Supreme Court, legal authorities in Poland. Yes? The opposition comes first. Although I do need you. It's not malice. Sympathy, because in my opinion it is necessary to start with your camp, because it is he who is putting the greatest resistance here today, not the opposition, as it turns out. Today, the opposition behaves very rationally and very fairly. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what should be the real discussion about the revision of the Constitution? First to talk to people, first to really show the essence of the constitution, the essence of a democratic state, free, European, open to the world, and then to ask whether we want to change this constitution. Unfortunately, today it happened the other way around. It's the other way around. And the philosophy that you presented this morning, Minister, in answer to the question, has been ruined, unfortunately, mainly because of your political camp, because it is he who disagrees with it. I wonder if, in fact, these rumors, or even the voices of the Senators of Law and Justice, that there will be a new motion for a referendum, somewhere, on the occasion of other elections... This is going to be an interesting phenomenon. Then you'll have to come to the Senate or to the Sejm and discuss and see that at the local elections you couldn't do it, but at the elections, for example. the European Parliament will be able to do so. Then it will be proof, Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, that the Law and Justice treats the referendum absolutely instrumentally, politically and partyly. There's really no mercy here, it's just about getting your own political interest. Even today, you can believe what you said from that speaker that this is a project. really outside political divisions or over political parties. But if he actually shows up And these are the voices of the Senators of Law and Justice today. In a few moments, a new referendum, which they will try to hold together, on the occasion of other elections, e.g. to the European Parliament or to the national Parliaments, it is interesting what the story of Law and Justice will then be about the fact that it could not be done then, and now it can be done. This means that these are political calculations, that in fact the interests of the political party are more important than the interests of the whole nation. And here's where I feel sorry for you, Minister, here's where I feel sorry for you. [[That's wisdom...]] You, Senator, are a good politician, and I know that when you do something, it's all about the interests of your party. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that I thank you once again for this attitude. I hope that the Ministers of Law and Justice will follow your example, but also the majority in the Senate, that the debate between the opposition and the rulers will be conducted as a political opponent rather than as an enemy. Because today we're treated like an enemy, a mortal enemy, who needs to shut his mouth so he doesn't do anything or say anything, because he's just interfering. And we don't want to interrupt. We have our views, our thoughts, which we want to defend and to which we want to convince you. And I firmly believe that if this dialogue is different, then Marshal Borusewicz, and the Civic Platform Club, and the non-associated senators, I think that all the serious politicians in this country will want to cooperate on important projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are at the next hour of discussion and I think there are some conclusions that can be formulated. And there is no doubt that the conclusion that has come out of most of the speeches in this debate is that we see the shortcomings or imperfections of the present constitution and the debate that the President's idea has caused is a debate that is absolutely necessary to improve the functioning of our country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the constitution, which is currently in force, which was adopted in 1997, has, in a sense, the stigma of the Polish People's Republic. And why does he have them? Please pay attention to its size. There are many articles there. It is one of the more extensive constitutions of the current European countries. And where did this expanse come from? That is, many rights, privileges, and very valid demands have been written down. And why were they written down? Why is it written that we have free health care, that we have freedom of expression, that education is to be free of charge? A whole series of such provisions are contained in the Constitution. Where did they come from? Well, they've come along... In order to understand this phenomenon, one must refer to the constitution of 1952, the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic, which, if we read it literally, also sounded beautiful in the sense of declaration, what is the right of citizens and what rights citizens have. There was even freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, freedom of religion. All this was also written in the 1952 Constitution, but the practice of applying this Constitution was as it was. Thus, in response to this kind of schizophrenia, the legislator decided once again in a solemn manner in such an act as the basic act to confirm all these rights and all, rightly so. I absolutely don't question them. The principles which are enshrined in this constitution. But unfortunately today we know that if we listen to the voices, what free health care looks like, or what free access to education looks like, it is in practice that citizens have different opinions on this subject. After all, we know what the state of public health is and what many citizens usually have to do when urgent medical intervention is needed because of their state of health. The second question... I would like to refer to Senator Borowski's statement, who pointed out that the 50% threshold was indeed amended in the law adopting the Constitution. I'm talking about 1997. It was actually done. But why? That's because they were afraid there wouldn't be more than five percent attendance. It was the only referendum in which this requirement was lifted. And it would have to be considered what were the reasons for the fact that, since there was such a loud act as the Constitution, it was assumed in advance that perhaps most citizens would not want to comment on this document. These are very interesting reasons. I don't have time to analyze this right now. But that also tells us a lot about the political elites that were behind this act. And another question, from Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement. Mr. Marshal Borowski is a great dialect. He referred to the percentages and said: what about when 40% will be behind some solution, 30% Against and 30% won't it vote? He said that then it would be possible to say, and yet 60%. did not support this solution. You could say that, but you might as well say that 78% citizens did not support the 1997 Constitution, because only 22% took part... i.e. voted in favour of this referendum of 25 May 1997. I'm talking about it because it's a clever sophistical dialectic that some people use in their statements, but they deny themselves, using this dialectic later. And last but not least, I would like to draw attention to one thing. On the sixth question, which falls in this referendum. That's what Senator Czerwinski was talking about. Unfortunately, I have a long memory and I remember perfectly how in 1975 the thesis appeared to put the leading role of the party and a lasting alliance and friendship with the Soviet Union into the Polish Constitution. We remember that... this, apparently, was voted out in April or then this work continued, in any case even before the Radom events, and all this caused the rise of the democratic opposition, including. is the famous stopping of Prof. Stanisław Stomma in the then Polish Parliament, which was an act of the highest courage in the reality of that political system. And from this point of view, I think that richer is this experience and memory, especially those who remember those days... On such matters, I think it would take a lot of caution or a lot of debate. Because the fact that we are in the Union and NATO is very good, and the fact that these are permanent alliances is also very good, but I do not know if it is necessary to write this in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That's the subject. for a separate discussion. I'm paying attention to the problem. Finally, I would like to thank the President once again for this initiative, for calling this whole debate, from which I believe it is obvious: we must continue to work on what direction and how to politically change the constitution, but we must also remember that there must be a broader political consensus around it so that this debate can be substantive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Also to the senators of the total opposition I will say... Here's what I'm gonna say: [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] It's obvious to me... [[Calm down, please!]] It's obvious to me, I'm in favour of a change of constitution, and it's not the slightest question. But I think that at this point in time, we should stop this referendum. And I don't mean the date of November 11th at all. She's very important. But I mean this time, because we are practically three years after the election, and in Poland we have turbulence caused by a total opposition, which until today has not accepted that the nation has rejected them in recent elections. [[Voice from the room: They didn't reject you.]] And I think we have to wait with this referendum on the constitution at least until the future term, when the nation really repeats its outcome and finally this total marketplace simply realizes that the nation has rejected them once and for all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And in the situation we're in right now... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! I didn't bother you. In the situation in which Poland is located, making a referendum at this moment will open a total marketplace to further storms, and a referendum and a change of constitution require a calm, factual debate. So to avoid that, we should just wait a little longer. Poland is not ready for this. [[Voice from the Chamber: Territorial Poland.]] I'd like to speak to the President... I don't know what's causing this... I know that every president wants to be president of all Poles, without exception, and maybe I'll say that I have quite a share in the fact that President Duda is president today, and I do not regret it... [[Voices from the hall: Oh! What do you mean?]] ...and I support that... And I will say that I will vote against such a referendum, but not against the President... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But it's just... But it's just out of concern for your president. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because this referendum may turn out to be a total disaster, as it turned out, the referendum that was held by Governor Komorowski. And I would like to avoid this situation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Governor?]] Yes. [[Voice from the hall: Whose governor? Whose?]] That's what I'd like... But please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Don't bother the senator.]] [[The voice from the hall: He caught us!]] That's what I'm trying to avoid. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Now about the questions. At first there were fifteen, at the moment there are ten. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I'm saying now it's a toplist... But these questions in several places are expanded, there are answers A, B and C. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Answers A, B and C. That's a bit of a thesis question. It doesn't make any sense. I think these questions are so designed... Well, you could paraphrase that at point A. You want to be young, and at point B you want to be beautiful. Maybe I'd like to be half here, half here? Or typing, for example. 500+. Why not 1000+? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Room voice: 10,000+.]] [[It's a plus.]] I believe that this direction may be entered, but the amounts do not fit. I believe that the referendum should have a maximum of 5 points, unambiguous, yes or no answers, but questions should be directional, and only when drawing up the constitution should Parliament, the Sejm, the Senate, deal with this in the political debate... Not asking such questions with a thesis. Senator Czerwiński has partially exhausted the subject, my speech, and Senator Jackowski repeated it. Indeed, it is completely ridiculous, even though I consider it very dangerous, to include membership of the Union in the Constitution. Well, I remember that time when we were given eternal love for the Traitor's Union. I remember the time when I went to Prague, and there to not get bored while waiting for a street crossing, from each side, for those of the other, it was written: se Sovětským svazem na věčné časy. Well, we can't... [[Voice from the room: What does that mean?]] Forever. Well, we can't let that happen. I'd be thinking... Minister, please tell the President that, in order to hold a referendum on such an important matter, we need to advance the reconciliation of Poles. This cannot be done, for future parliamentary elections cannot be done, as I said before, it cannot be done until the total marketplace understands that the nation has rejected them once and for all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And maybe during that time... For yes: this year is the century of regaining independence, in 2 years' time there is a century of the Battle of Warsaw, or the Miracle of the Vistula. Perhaps the President would have the opportunity to consolidate us as a nation, and I think that would be a glorious purpose. You know, because your classic said that there is no money and there will be no money, so maybe we are no longer able to bet this triumphal arch in Warsaw. But I'd suggest that he put up a column of victory. Well, that would be a quick action, a bet. If we did our best, and we've got four months left, we could even do that. on the roundabout of de Gaulle, instead of this fatal palm tree or, if I speak correctly, on the roundabout of Dmowski near Rotunda put up a column of victory. And around these symbols, we could somehow focus the nation, team up, and then, in the next term, think about a referendum. And that's what I'd be proposing to the president. In this way he would be the president of all Poles, as if he had focused on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u141	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. For the second time, right? [[Yes.]] Five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u142	I'd like to address the marshal in charge. Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to pay attention to speeches such as the senator who just spoke from the stand so that he would not legally call the elected President of the Republic of Poland Bronisław Komorowski governor. Yesterday, several times, Mr. Marshal Karczewski interrupted my speech, I do not know why. And today, a man who says such things has complete freedom and freedom, and he has 10 minutes to speak. That's very bad for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u143	Mrs. Senator, I haven't interrupted anyone's speech yet, even though the words were harsher here, including those of your parliamentary club. Senator Comfort. First or second time? [[Thank you very much...]] [[Voice from O.R.: 2nd.]] Two, then five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u144	Shortly, Mr. Marshal. I address you to Minister Flies. I'd like you to notice that by mouth, as some call us, total opposition... Well, no one dared to compare the President's idea to the initiative of inclusion in the Communist Constitution. I'd like you to tell the President that we didn't make those comparisons out of our mouths. [[Applause]] Secondly, on behalf of the Warsaw people, I ask the Senator of the Member States to appear at his place in Kashubia with such an initiative concerning possible this monument of victory. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No one in Warsaw authorized you to do this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u145	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the room: Important information...]] Would the Minister like to speak again? Yes? You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member State should be given five minutes more.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes remaining. But now it's...]] [[Voice from the room: But the list is already closed...]] But the list was closed. [[Voice from the room: But it's still five minutes away.]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'd like to...]] There you go, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Dear Sir...]] [[...to say that no one in Warsaw has authorized you to pass on this...]] [[Voice from the room: What is this, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u146	Dear Marshal, Dear Mr. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for this discussion, thank you for this debate, for those 6.5 hours of discussion on constitutional problems. I think it was worth it. It is good that this discussion could take place in this Chamber, in the High House. Thank you for the diversity of these votes, thank you for those positive votes, and for those critical votes. I accept all your comments. The important part I disagree with, some I approve of, some I will try to refer to. If, due to the size of your speech, I miss someone, I apologize in advance. These statements were extreme, just as the opinions of publicists and commentators are extreme. Some things were praised and criticized by others, hence the difficulty of resolving certain things in the High House. We see that there is no uniform position here. There is one issue that I think is crucial. Well, you're not assigned to any party tribes. I don't know why there were such strong voices about the opposition or the coalition... Well, I'm looking at Senate Rules and in this Senate Rules I see art. 2: The senators in their work are guided by the good of the Nation and by their consciences. I am convinced that each of you will make an individual assessment that this will be the assessment of a given senator or given senator and that you will be able to settle this in accordance with your belief in the interests of the Republic of Poland. It has been pointed out here that this process is a co-decision process. Of course, it is the President who is presenting the draft decision to order a national referendum, but the Senate's vote is also extremely important, because if you do not agree, the referendum simply will not be. And now, please pay attention to one thing. If these voices were so divided, if the opinions were so diverse, if the discussion was so interesting, at least in my opinion, why should we block the direct opportunity to speak to the people on this matter? How do you want to tell the public as senators of the Republic of Poland: we knew better, we decided for you, there will be no referendum, there will be no possibility to answer these constitutional questions, because we thought that we knew better that the questions were too much or too little that they were too specific or too general that too many or too few of them were related to systemic issues? And that is the foundation of the President's proposal. And that is the assumption that the President also expressed in his statement of reasons for ordering a national referendum. This is such a fundamental matter that the people should not miss the voice of the people, it should not miss the voice of society. Let the public have the opportunity to comment on this, so that society appreciates it and evaluates the system that we have in the electoral system, and then learns from it. Poles are a wise nation, Poles will be able to make the right decision. I absolutely disagree with those voices that... one seemed very inappropriate to me, although perhaps that was not the intention. There was a voice that said that society in its mass would not be able to make such an assessment. Well, you are representatives of the nation, you are extremely important in this system and your voice is extremely important. I think that this kind of voice, which indicates that the political class will be able to make such an assessment, and that the society will not be able to make that assessment, is wrong. I disagree with that voice, and I will argue with it. Perhaps it was some language awkwardness. Ladies and gentlemen, the voice of Senator Jan Żaryn was beautiful, who said that we wanted to be fathers of independence, that we could be fathers of independence, expressing my support For the referendum on 10 and 11 November. Of course we can show for the century of regaining independence that this is a constitutional moment, that we can first adopt a joint resolution on the resolution of a referendum and then discuss it in such a way that society has the knowledge to be able to assess the effects of concrete solutions. And that is the great challenge of the social-information campaign. Let this discussion be as diverse as possible. It may be that Mr Marek Martynowski urges specific answers, and Mr Bogdan Klich says: no, we will answer this question completely differently. You can moderate this discussion, you can give it a tone, but let it be the expression of the nation. The President of the Republic of Poland wants to ask the sovereign directly, and the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. That's what the senator, Professor Bobko, was talking about, or are we dealing with a constitutional moment? In my opinion, we are dealing with a constitutional moment, we can afford a better constitution, and we are capable of it. And I fully subscribe to the slogan that the professor said: let's try to give ourselves a chance. Today in the Senate, in my opinion, this has been very successful. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this discussion was substantive, and I also welcome the slightness of malice, but the discussion in great advantage was substantive, because these voices were referring to constitutional matter and to these most important problems. If I'm talking about malice or false slogans, then I can't ignore the kind of accusation that the constitution is not being respected. I'll say it in two sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at, for example, to the information of the Constitutional Tribunal on activity, to the activity report, if you look at the statistics that are available... However, I, also as a lawyer, will defend such a view that in the Polish Constitution there is a provision of art. 188, which states that the Constitutional Tribunal shall decide on the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution. If we were to reason like some senators in this Chamber, we could say this: several dozen times President Bronisław Komorowski broke the Constitution, because in dozens of cases the Constitutional Tribunal, as part of a follow-up audit, found that the bill which the President signed and which was sent to the Constitutional Tribunal, was declared incompatible with the Constitution. And that's no argument, that's no argument, because this argument can be used against all presidents or none. We don't assign ourselves powers. I know that there is one retired judge who claims such competence to be a single-member Constitutional Court, but such competence is attributed to the Constitutional Court. [[Not the president.]] The president is watching over the Constitution... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...but the constitution must, Mr. Senator, read, see the article. Article 126 and Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 188... [[I'd recommend it to you, too.]] ...and learn from it the right lessons. [[With understanding.]] Should the constitution be changed? I, of course, will not go into polemics with the senator, because I could tell you how the perceptions of some have changed in different systems of political power. I am glad that this evolution is in plus that it is moving towards democracy and that some make the right choices after the time. [[Everyone's wrong.]] Yes, everyone has the right to be wrong, only the thing of a fool is to continue in this error. [[And so is the Venice Commission.]] With regard to the question of whether we are at such a moment today that we can initiate the constitutional debate and carry it out effectively... We are absolutely able to initiate the constitutional debate and carry it out effectively. It's been happening for a year now, it's happening in this room. I don't think he's a moral gamble, as he did here in his speech, in one of his statements... that the requirement of the Senate's consent and of making this appeal to the nation, which I have just done, is to put the state in some kind of compulsive situation. No, I'm just pointing to the seriousness of the situation, to a very specific context. The President of the Republic of Poland has the title, no one in the Republic has the title to ask questions about amending the Constitution, because the President is elected by the people in general elections. And here, too, there can be no such thing as to say... I don't want to say that we are hypocritical, but that we are very much intervening in the name of one of the former presidents, and on the other hand, we have a speech in which we are trying to dissuade the President-in-Office by saying that he has no title to hold a constitutional debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the president has the title to hold this kind of debate, another thing is whether anyone wants to respond positively to such a draft resolution and vote in favour of whether they want to address it negatively. And just as you have the right to evaluate the draft resolution, so the President is most entitled to initiate such a debate. And the fact that there are different voices in public opinion is the essence of democracy. And I can't agree with that. I'm right here, too, because there was one saying. That there is no right to assembly in Poland, that freedom is being violated. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. There is a right to assembly, there is freedom of manifestation, there is freedom of expression, we live in a fully democratic state, and this debate also confirms that we can all preach our views and each of us may think that something else is good for the Republic of Poland. And I call for more moderation and substantive statements, less malice, as well as respect for the President of the Republic of Poland in this public debate. I accept the correction of Senator Tomasz Grodzk's statement. I understand that... [[Voices from Grodzki's room.]] Grodski. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I know that these were unfortunate words, unintended, I have known your senator for many years and I did not suspect that the intention was to offend the head of state, but I thank Minister Radziwiłł very much for paying attention to this unfortunateness, and the correction by Professor Grodzki was accomplished. Ladies and gentlemen, the charge here that questions are profective is not a substantively justified charge. Are the questions to be formulated in a way that is non-fractional? Turn it around, please. It is logical that these questions should be formulated in a pro-active way if someone wants this initiative to be adopted by society. And that's exactly what they're saying. And now I'm addressing all the critics of individual questions, and I've said it over and over again. Of course, one can discuss the relevance of one question or another. I can't say that no one has made any other, better, better offer. I do not remember the demands for changing a specific question, I do not remember the requests for a question to be included in the referendum pool, I am now talking about the leaders of political parties. As far as the Civic Platform is concerned, I do not remember such a request, and here was a very strong criticism and the claim that questions could have been better developed. Except these questions, called here by Mr. Marshal Borusewicz by the concert of wishes, are simply a reproduction of the will of society. And I didn't like the way that society's will was distorted and the way it was exchanged, pointing out that maybe the miners were still there. With great respect I approach the miners and with great respect I approach other social groups of the Republic of Poland. These are questions of Poles, these are questions discussed with Poles, these are questions formulated by us, but on the basis of a national debate. Justification of the order, issues related to whether the negative answer will affect further answers to specific constitutional questions. I've talked about it a few times. If the first question is answered so that the work on amending the Constitution does not lead, does not continue, then of course it will be unobtrusive to answer further questions. This will be the case if most of the answers are highlighted in the option: Poles decide to maintain the 1997 Constitution. However, in order to give everyone the opportunity to express their opinion, we have the situation that even if someone points out in the first question that he is in favour of maintaining the Constitution, and it will be in the minority of answers, and he will stress, answer further questions on key fundamental issues, then his statements will also be binding when counting votes. The question that came up for the time being... I absolutely straighten it out, I've said it many times from the speaker. This may be due to the fact that not all of them, as I understand it, were present in this Chamber at all times. Have there been consultations with the State Election Commission? Of course, there has been consultations with the State Election Commission, and there have also been direct talks with Mr Hermelinski, and I have met with Mr President personally, and I have spoken with him on the telephone several times. I have no doubt that this referendum can be held. There has been an accusation that it is not correct that there are explanations that only information on the ballot would be sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, explanations are intended to serve what has also been raised by many of you, so that these questions can be answered with full awareness, so that Poles can decide how they want to resolve specific issues of the system. That is why I believe that these explanations are needed. I'm talking about the ballot itself. Thank you for the vote that has been put forward here to thank the President for taking this initiative. I am convinced, regardless of everything, that this is a crucial moment, that this is to raise the level of constitutional debate to a much higher level, the level that is in the hands of the senators today. Regardless of this decision, I am convinced that sooner or later Poland will change the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 2997, whether by its amendment or by the adoption of a new basic law, and today's debate in the Senate will make a major contribution to this. There were no votes here to state that the constitution does not require any change, that it is a perfectly constructed legal act. There have been voices demonstrating the need for reflection on the revision of the Constitution, and this is very important, and the President is very specific in saying that the people should speak on this matter. As far as issues relating to the summation of infringements are concerned... That's what you're talking about, Senator Bogdan Klich. I do not want to carry out this statistical analysis and decide whether more times the Constitutional Tribunal has declared the unconstitutionality of the laws signed by President Komorowski or by anyone else. Let's not try to build a situation like this... One Latin parish says: not every judge's statement has the power of judgment. The same is true of politicians' statements. These are not judgments of the Constitutional Court. It's someone's view, it's someone's judgment. The legal services of the President's Office may be mistaken, but none of the presidents will knowingly sign a bill that is incompatible with the constitution. Well, there may be another legal assessment, but we shouldn't have this kind of hasty assessment. He's taking such a pity on... there's a word for it that the president wants to hurt himself. I understand that this is such a rhetorical formula, but it seems to me so inadequate that we are talking about very serious things. We are talking about the President of the Republic of Poland, with the consent of the Senate, ordering a national referendum, we are talking about the decision of society. However, this decision must be made with awareness of what is in the interests of the Republic of Poland. I understand that you are concerned about the President, but the President is primarily concerned about the public interest, about the interests of the Republic. However, I would ask you to make an assessment from the perspective of whether you consider it appropriate to give the nation the opportunity to speak and not to be guided by its concern that the President will have some political shortcomings if such a decision is taken. Being President of the Republic of Poland is a huge responsibility. The president is making decisions to make it in the public interest, not to calculate whether it's in his political interest. There were a number of questions about detailed work. Of course, the questions in the consultative referendum are necessarily about general issues. I have already said several times that a revision of the Constitution would be a process that we would have reached after a few years, following a detailed debate on the article. The 68 that Senator Konstanty Radziwił referred to here about art. 69 or on other specific issues that have been discussed. If we are talking about introducing work as one of the pillars of the social market economy, we are also putting it in a specific context concerning the reconstruction of the economic system, which also affects legislation. One more thing that's extremely important. Of course, the stability of the law is a value, but it is not an absolute value. If the law does not conform to socio-economic reality, this right should be changed. If we agree today and most were for this kind of change The Constitution needs to be changed, and we cannot say that the debate should be hindered, because this can be understood as a disappointing of the Constitution of 1997. The Constitution is to be a tool that serves the nation. This is supposed to be a tool of efficient public authority. This is to guarantee certain rights, even of a supra-constitutional nature, of fundamental rights. We cannot treat the Constitution in such a way that no change should take place, because it would dissuade the existing basic law. Well, this is a fundamental misunderstanding. Thank you very much to Senator Anton Szymanski for thanking the President, although I believe they are premature before the vote. They are kind, but I am convinced that the Senate can thank the President actively by adopting a resolution, in agreement with the draft decision to order a national referendum. There were a few self-critical voices that you wrongly agreed to, and I am talking about the senators of the Civic Platform for a referendum by President Bronisław Komorowski. You say it was a mistake, and we've learned our lesson. If you have agreed to the referendum of President Bronisław Komorowski, and you do not want to accept it, then you have not drawn correct conclusions in my opinion, with all due respect. That referendum, written after losing the first round of elections with a clear intention to apply for the votes of one of the opponents, referring to the political agenda of one of the opponents Then President Bronisław Komorowski knew he was entering the second round as a loser. It cannot be compared with the power of a referendum, in which the President of the Republic of Poland, not in an electoral context, but in the context of a mature reflection on the state, wants to ask the public about fundamental issues: a change of constitution and systemic problems. I was talking about correcting the unfortunate statement that the nation would not understand. Thank you very much for speaking to President Grzegorz Napieralski. I'm trying to listen to all the voices with respect. If my present speech is emotional, that's it. I also had a bit of a reaction to the fact that I had listened to a lot of critical words while sitting for five hours. They didn't touch me personally. In my opinion, the criticism addressed under this initiative may have resulted from a little misunderstanding... [[You don't teach us that.]] ...that this is an initiative that is an initiative of society, of Poles, and that the President has modeled it in the draft resolution. And I feel a bit like the spokesperson here for all those who came to open regional meetings, all those who sent correspondence to the President's Office, all those who sent e-mails to the referendum.Consultation@president. en, all those who expressed their views at the meetings and hoped that the Senate of the Republic of Poland would agree to the draft order. He made you laugh with his speech by Senator Aleksander Pociej, who said that he did not dare to invoke this appeal to the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic, but since it has already appeared, it was to tell the President that it appeared in the statements of one of the Senators of Law and Justice. Well, I would like to make it very clear to you and, unfortunately, for a moment, I would like to interest you in this information that, as far as European regulations are concerned... I talked about it, but now I'm going to talk about it in an orderly manner. Austria: provisions enabling integration with the European Union, provisions referring to the European Union dispersed in the text of the Constitution, a specific chapter on the European Union and a separate constitutional law or legislation on the European Union. Well, the constitution of Austria and the eternal alliance with the Soviet Union. Belgium: also provisions relating to the European Union. Bulgaria: also provisions relating to the European Union. Cyprus: also provisions relating to the European Union. Czech Republic: also provisions relating to the European Union. Estonia: a separate Constitutional Act or Act. Finland: a specific chapter on the European Union. France: a specific chapter on the European Union. Ireland: provisions relating to the European Union. Lithuania: a separate Constitutional Act or Act concerning membership of the European Union. Latvia: provisions relating to the European Union. Malta: provisions relating to the European Union. Germany: provisions relating to the European Union. Portugal: provisions relating to the European Union. Romania: a special chapter in the Constitution concerning the European Union. [[Mr. Counselor...]] I can stop... [[Yes.]] [[Yes.]] ...on this list, but I understand that I have given you an illustration that this comparison is absolutely incorrect. And I'm sorry, but those of the senators who raised such a charge didn't make the right preparations for this constitutional debate, because after taking some effort, reaching out to materials that are in possession, for example. Sejm Analysis Offices, or other materials can be determined without difficulty And I have talked about this in the debate several times. That many European countries standardise membership of the European Union. And here's the question: will they withdraw from these regulations as a result of the fiery speeches here, that this reminds someone of 1976? This comparison was absolutely inappropriate and inappropriate. I understand that it was also a sort of erotic procedure that was supposed to arouse interest or amusement, but I don't think that joke was funny. This is obviously a matter of humor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Poland is the common good of all citizens, and the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. And I have a very short request for you: let us give the nation a chance to decide about the future of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. [[So what happens now?]] For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the President's consent to the national referendum will be held immediately after the adjournment. I'm ordering a break until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 55 to 18 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u148	I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the second agenda: to agree to a national referendum by the President of the Republic of Poland. May I remind you that the Senate has held a discussion on this matter. We'll proceed with the vote. According to Art. Paragraph 125. 2 of the Constitution of the Senate agrees to the President's ruling of a national referendum by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes will mean the Senate's failure to agree to a referendum. We are voting on the Senate's consent to a national referendum by the President of the Republic of Poland. Who among your senators is in favour of consent? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my gosh!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 92 senators voted. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 47. 10 senators voted in favour of the referendum, 30 senators voted against, 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate did not agree to a national referendum by the President of the Republic of Poland and adopted a resolution on this matter. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that the agenda be supplemented by a point: second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and consider this item as item 30 of the sixth agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Objection.]] I hear a voice of opposition. Yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u149	Mr Marshal, my objection arises from the discussion at today's meeting of the Joint Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the Legislative Committee. This is the extent to which the resolution relate to the various proposals submitted by the representative of the applicants concerning the powers of the Senate bodies and the Senate Bureau and the Rules of Procedure. The proposal that the Senate Statute should be designed only by the Senate Marshal, not so far by the Senate Marshal after consulting the Senate Bureau and the Rules of Procedure Committee, seems controversial enough to require discussion at least at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. Hence my objection to this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u150	Then we'll vote, Mr. Senator. I filed my motion, sir. The senator filed an objection. We are voting on my motion to introduce a point. Who is in favour of putting this item under discussion? I remind you that this is a second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and considering this item as item 30 of the sixth agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 91 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 30 against. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the High House has accepted my proposal and that the item on the 30th item on the agenda will be the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. We're coming back... Sorry, we're not coming back, and we're going to consider item three of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 891 and the report of the Commission in print No 891 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u151	Mr. Marshal High Izbo! The report of the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which took place on 23 July 2018, related to the Act amending the Law on Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality and the Act on National Tax Administration. The Act sets out quality requirements for solid fuels and rules for quality control of these fuels. The justification for the draft law indicates that new solutions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to enable the monitoring and control of the quality of solid fuels in accordance with the state of technical knowledge and experience in their use, with particular emphasis on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask those who do not wish to take part in the deliberations to leave the room. We're listening to the rapporteur's senator. There you go.]] ...limit emissions of pollutants, greenhouse gases and other substances. The effect of the changes is also to organise the market for solid fuels and enable consumers to buy fuels that meet the quality requirements for fuels intended for the municipal and residential sectors. The Act sets out combustion plants for fuels in which combustion fuels should comply with the requirements laid down in the Act. It concerns solid fuels burning in households and installations with a rated thermal input of less than 1 MW. The new legislation amends and extends the catalogue of solid fuels. According to the Act, solid fuel is among others. hard coal, briquettes or pellets containing 85% or more by weight coal, coal mules, flotoconcentrates, brown coal, biomass, peat, a mixture of these fuels. The Act prohibits the sale and import of fuels to the municipal and domestic sector which do not comply with the requirements of the Quality Regulation. for hard coal and briquettes, or are directly excluded from placing on the market in this sector. The Act introduces an obligation to use a quality certificate. The certificate shall be transmitted for each sale of solid fuel intended for the municipal and domestic sector. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Assuming designers, it's supposed to be information to the buyer about what he's buying... [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please silence the noises in the courtroom. That's what's bothering the rapporteur.]] ...and what's in the solid fuel product. The certificate is also intended to monitor the fulfilment of fuel quality standards. The acquisition of a solid fuel which does not meet the quality requirements will be possible by the combustion plant with a capacity of not less than 1 MW, provided that a copy of the certificate of operation is provided to the seller. The trader who sells solid fuel contrary to the law and the requirements of the quality regulation will be fined from PLN 50 000 to PLN 500 000 or prison sentence, while the trader who sells solid fuel to the municipal and domestic sector, without issuing or not delivering a quality certificate or passing quality parameters in a certificate which is not factually correct, will be subject to an administrative penalty of between PLN 10 000 and PLN 100 000. The control of solid fuels will take place in solid fuel assemblies. The quality checks on solid fuels shall be carried out by a commercial inspection or by a tax and customs office. The Act does not provide for fuel control at the combustion site. In addition to the basic Regulation on solid fuel quality requirements, methods for testing the quality of solid fuels and sampling of solid fuels have been submitted to the implementing rules. The date of entry into force of the Act was, in principle, 14 days from the date of publication. With effect from 1 June 2020, the regulations prohibiting and selling and importing brown coal into the municipal sector are to enter into force. One amendment was tabled during the discussion. High Senate, please pass the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u152	Thank you. Mr. Senator, please stay for a moment, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and ask a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This bill is due to enter into force before this heating season and will require a review of its implementation. Please tell us what funds, for example for the State Trade Inspection, for the current year, for this season, are earmarked for these six months in the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u154	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u155	In answer to your question, no expenditure is foreseen in 2018 for carrying out studies. The law still requires the introduction of appropriate regulations that will reflect... indicating what fuels we can sell in the municipal and indigenous sector, as well as the requirements for control and testing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u156	The question is... Would the senator like to ask you a new question? [[Ask around.]] Ask around. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u157	Since there are no regulations, there is no money, as at the committee meeting, although the Legislative Bureau requested a change, the extension of the vacathio legis was translated, and it was argued that after 14 days something would enter into force that still could not enter into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u159	To answer your question, I must say that this bill has been signaled for a year, and this year it is finally being conducted in the Senate. Vacatio legis 14 days without regulations... Once these regulations are in place, we'll be able to make this bill... And these regulations are already at the stage of completion and notification, so it will be possible to implement this law in this heating season.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u160	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, a few months ago the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in which it concluded that Poland exceeded the limit values for dust concentrations and did not take appropriate action to improve air quality in its time. The Court referred to this as a failure and, at the same time, committed our country to take the appropriate steps. Today, my question is going in this direction. During the committee's work, we debated with the Minister and the Minister informed us that Polish coal coming to individual customers is of good quality, which is bad quality is coal, which comes from imports. I would therefore like to ask what is the trend in coal imports in recent years and what are its directions. Is this trend, Mr. Senator, increasing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u163	In answer to your question, I will say that the recommendations of this report require the introduction of emission standards for coal boilers in households as soon as possible. That's one thing. The second is the introduction of minimum quality requirements for coal to remove the most harmful waste from domestic combustion plants for health and life. And the third is to lean on the problem of thermomodernization of single-family buildings, which are the main issuers of coal dust. As far as imports of hard coal are concerned, because that's what we've been talking about all along, I want to say that this coal that's affecting us is of good quality. Import directions are different, most coal affects the Russian Federation and that is a fact. It also goes to the municipal and residential sector, but mostly to professional energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u164	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u165	Mr. Senator, was there a discussion at the committee meeting about the issue of imports of coal, which is transported at long distances before it reaches the border, crumbling during this transport and thus losing its characteristics that allow it to be imported as heavy coal With such an assumption that one more segregation, but already in Poland, should be carried out before checking the subdivided content and only then assess the subdivided content of this carbon? What were the suggestions made by the committee in this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u167	This was the topic discussed in the committee, raised by entrepreneurs who were present at the committee meeting. But this law does not concern this problem so far, it will be included in the regulation on the quality of solid fuels, i.e. coal, also thick.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u168	Are there any more questions? Senator Wcisla continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u169	I'd just like to say that this bill could be about this problem. I'll file a motion on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u170	Senator Komarnicki's asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I mean coal producers and mines. As sales will be limited, what will be the possible cost for the workplace? And is the government possibly planning any compensation or relief for coal producers because they will not be able to sell different mules and mule-like products?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u173	Yes, such considerations are, but mules and fleet concentrates will go to professional energy, and mines or mining companies will have to comply with existing law. It's not gonna be like these thick sort of things in a year or two are gonna be out of the market... It's going to be a long-term process, I think about 10 years, and I think we're going to move smoothly on to burning only those coals of the best quality. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u174	The question is, Senator Komarnicki... [[Senator Władysław Komarnicki: Already asked.]] You already did. Yes. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? If not, thank you to the rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? You don't report to the Minister. Thank you very much. Senators can now report from the site a maximum of one minute of query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. I'm asking the Minister to speak because there will be questions. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u175	Minister, in order not to speak again, I will ask all the questions immediately. First, please tell me when you expect to notify the regulations, what are the chances of this happening. Secondly, why aren't the funds provided for the implementation of this law for this year? And thirdly, was it estimated if the burden on consumers would increase, who would have to buy higher quality coal, but, of course, also at a higher price? What's the cost for the household?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As far as notification is concerned, this is why we have entered a very short period of vacathio legis so that it can start the notification process immediately after the adoption of the law after 14 days. He will deal with this part related to brown coal, because we have already discussed other things with the European Commission. I have since last year, when we consulted the bill and later spoke interministerially with the Ministry of Finance to build a certain control system that was added here, among others. with regard to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Trade Inspection or the National Tax Administration... We immediately joined the bill. This law is so related to regulations that it is in the regulation that it is specific issues that are quite important for people who trade coal. There is parameterization of dust, grain, other parameters of carbon, which we would like to see in Polish trade. The European Commission is also waiting for action on individual turnover, up to 1 MW, i.e. on individual customers and those with smaller boilers and not so-called professional energy or heating. The point is that smog and air pollution do not come from professional energy, because there are appropriate technologies, there are environmental regulations, adequate filters, the ability to burn certain fractions such as mules, flotoconcentrates or had. The problem arises in the case of individual customers or people who have boilers not adapted because they have one, up to 1 MW... As far as the burden on consumers is concerned, I will say that this burden has already arisen last year. We consulted the law, talked about it, informed that we wanted to introduce it, because that is the expectation of the European Commission. I don't know if you remember, but this year there was a court ruling saying that we have some negligence in this matter, hence the Clean Air programme. But some of the voivodships last year, probably in September, October... Local governments of individual voivodships, in the south and not only, have decided to withdraw from the trading of flotoconcentrates, mules in these voivodships. As far as the Polish Mining Group is concerned, I will say that, aside from this law, and the decision of local governments, we have withdrawn these factions from individual turnover, sales already in August last year. Then, on the occasion of large investments in the hard coal sector, we started investing in processing in individual mines, using such a philosophy that we now want to extract coal, enrich it and prepare it under the customer, so that, as it is in other areas of the economy, deliver the product that is expected by the customer, with its full parameterization. So we wanted the parameters of Polish coal to begin to be fulfilled, and so we started to withdraw these coals from individual turnover. In these voivodships I was talking about, we could actually see an increase in demand for peas, and the reason is not so much the increase in the price of coal, but that they had, mules, flotocentrates are just cheaper and if we withdraw them from the market, then individual customers or consumers operating somewhere in greenhouses or having small boilers must purchase peas or possibly other carbon fractions, and not those cheap products for burning. As for the fact that we did not anticipate the amounts whether the Ministry of Finance proposed that this year the budget appropriations should be allocated for control, I would like to say that it has been examined that the bill will probably enter into force around September, i.e. before the heating period, and this year checks will be carried out by forces that are in individual institutions, at the consumer protection office or in the commercial inspection. But from next year, we're starting large, I'd say, such a program to power these institutions with new employees. See: at a time when there is no law, there are no instruments to expand these institutions, so it is after the law enters into force that the tooling of the institution begins. The model of the whole system is taken from the process of sealing the checks that took place with regard to fuel, which was followed by the Ministry of Finance, developing the whole certification system that contractors need at the dumps, as well as the laboratories that have to be certified and where the tests will be carried out. It was based on this, after taking into account the characteristics of the raw material, the hard coal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u177	The question is Senator Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, well, I'd actually like to repeat one of the questions that we had before, but I don't think there was an answer. Well, it's known that these worse and cheap carbon varieties people buy not out of love for them, but mostly out of poverty, right? And this applies especially, as the Minister himself said, just individual farms, poor people who buy coal for buckets, for baskets, for sacks. And the question of how much more expensive it's gonna be right now is very valid. But actually, it's complementary. I'd like to ask if there's a support program for these people. Well, because probably those people who have to buy more expensive coal, they're just not gonna warm up their homes. And that's a very serious risk. I'd like to ask how the government sees this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u179	And that, Minister, we'll ask Senator Komarnicki. To block the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The question was taken from me by Minister Radziwiłł, and I will only detail it, if I may, the same question. The bill will touch 5.5 million farms so precisely. Of course, it's clearly... You yourself wrote, Minister, in September you published a study indicating that at present 31% households heat coal and live in so-called energy poverty. And the poorest, that's 10%. out of them, 1/4 of their budget is spent on the purchase of coal. I would like to ask, Minister, like Minister Radziwiłł, if you are planning any specific assistance for these people. And in order not to speak again, I would like to thank you very warmly and cordially, Minister, for seeing on Lubusian soil... And, which is the greatest value, you used brown coal from the mine of Sieniawa. The mine of Sieniawa is among others. producer of brown coal and produces a lot of different types of kilns, where this coal burns properly, as you expect. And for that, as Senator of Lubuskie land, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u181	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u182	When it comes to the actual increase in resources or expenditures on the purchase of fuel, which will apply either in individual homes or in small businesses, he already appeared last year. Because, as I mentioned, 6 voivodships introduced resolutions to withdraw certain parties, as I say, fleet concentrates and mules. And the fact that we've already met. So the law actually introduces all over Poland... But we already have a phenomenon today that there are 11 voivodships that have adopted such a resolution. So here's the deal. Of course, there's a challenge to help people who smoke garbage. They may not smoke because they want to, but they actually have one, not another social status. And this is where the whole Clean Air programme comes in, and soon you will be a proxy, Minister Wozny will present a bill concerning, among others. It's clean air. Because the program was created at the National Environmental Fund, there is talk about tens of billions, about 100 billion PLN of funds, among others. for thermomodernisation, for the exchange of heating where possible, for gas or electric. We want to support electric heating through funding. As well as our ministry... Because this has been segmented, individual resorts are to be included in this program with their competences. We, as the Ministry of Energy, are to be involved in district heating networks in Poland, to expand district heating networks where possible and, in my opinion, to separate individual customers from smoking in their furnaces or boilers, and to adapt them to the connection to the district heating bus. It is also about support in individual regions for installing electric heating. It's kind of our role in the Ministry of Energy. And the other stimuli of thermomodernization, that is, energy efficiency, and support for these people, especially in rural areas that will be affected by coal prices... Because at this point, they're gonna have to buy peas that are more expensive than mules and flotation. So that this program is so extensive, so long-term, that on the one hand it can actually achieve the effect of clean air, and on the other hand mitigate the effect of fuel, which is more expensive than, to put it mildly, mules and flotation concentrates. This is indeed a challenge for the government and it is difficult to apply one mechanism or one element, so here is an ix of instruments that we have actually applied since last year, at least in terms of heating, energy issues. And now the national fund and your proxy are to prepare a bill. The regulations mentioned by the Prime Minister were also approved in order to support those who may be affected by the introduction of new organic fractions in terms of coal. And if he's going... I'm just gonna complete it, because it really needs to be emphasized. It is often referred to as brown coal and stone as unclean fuel, non-organic fuel. And it is often said that with brown it is even worse than with hard coal. It is true that simply burning brown coal is even worse than burning hard coal, but if we have what the senator mentioned, which is the appropriate boilers that are prepared for briquettes... That's very important, too. I would like to mention this because, for a few months, we have tried to construct an amendment that was tabled in the Senate and at the same time negotiate it in the European Commission, to point out that we will introduce something like this into the bill. This is the issue of the NCBR, because with funds for the innovation of the mine, Sieniawa received funds to create a briquette, i.e. green fuel from brown coal. They used a system. The inhabitants of Lubuskie immediately used suitable boilers, so a symbiosis of fuel and boiler, which burns this modern fuel from brown coal in an ecological way, was created. And there, in Lubusek, we have, which is very important, the consent of local governments, as well as the local government. Well, there are no resolutions that are in these other 11 voivodships, so we could apply this issue in this cooperation with the local government. It is also important to emphasize that we in Poland, when it comes to hard coal and brown coal, really know how to use technologies that can be adapted outside Poland. Maybe not always in European countries, because coal is being pushed out there, but we have Asia as a whole, which is involved in coal mining, and also in open-air mining. Well, there are other countries. I think it's important that we can transfer these technologies. We could do that, and we're starting to do that, we're starting to transfer new carbon technologies outside. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Short, specific questions. One: Is there coke among solid fuels? He's a product, I understand... Is coke among solid fuels? The next question concerns lignite. The possibility of placing it on the market will cease in 2020 and the peat will remain. What, excuse me, more smoke and leave more ingredients, would I call it extra-carbon? You turn off the brown coal, and the peat, like I said, stays. And the last question, which concerns the text strictly already. This is where the lips are added. Article 4a 16. This is about where you can take solid fuel samples. It's usually that when you're so enumeratively pointing something out, which is to say, something's missing in this set. Wouldn't it be better to add, in particular, that this catalogue should be opened? 'Cause, you know, like... may be taken from railway wagons, from cars or from the prism obtained after unloading of this fuel from wagons, cars, ships or shoulders. Good. And from the ships or the bar themselves, can you or can't you? Or is it just from the prism? I'm sorry, it's kind of obvious, but actually the controller should be able to take that kind of fuel from anywhere and test it. Well, like I said, enumerative indication will make one of these places go away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u185	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u186	When it comes to coke, it doesn't go into that directory. It is used in metallurgy. [[But people smoke it.]] But they won't be able to. That's why we're introducing regulations, giving certain parameters to rid him of his individual circulation. [[Why can't you do coke?]] Well, you know, because if you don't have an adapted, professional smoking oven... We're eliminating fleet concentrates, mules, so it's hard to expect us to smoke in an individual oven with coke. [[Voice from the room: They're like that for coke, they are.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since we introduce carbon parametrisation in the regulation and we are in contact with coke, this does not mean that coke is in full circulation for individual customers, because coke is mainly used in metallurgy. This is also why we give, in the case of lignite, a transitional period until 2020, for example. in lubuskie. And here you are right that brown coal burned directly in furnaces is more harmful. That's why we've only embraced the Lubusian recipe... Lubuskie was covered by this provision because other voivodships applied their resolutions. And we, in fact, introducing a transitional period for Lubuskie, for the adaptation of fireplaces as well as briquettes, have caused brown coal, especially imported from the Czech Republic, not to be burned in other regions, because this amendment is so constructed that it only applies to Lubuskie. So that we, giving the transition period until 2020, have established it only for Lubuskie. [[But you can smoke with peat?]] You know, you can, you know... But I don't understand what your problem is right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u187	Because I don't see logic. This fuel in which there's more carbon should be treated as greener, and the fuel in which it's less... And in the peat... What's the carbon content there? 40% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u188	But after all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You know what? Note that peat is used in agriculture. [[Voice from the room: I'll light it and that's it...]] But how... where are you gonna light it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u189	Good. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as a specialist in coal energy, coal fuels, can you answer this question, is this law giving me another signal, as if it were about the limitations on the exploitation of fossil fuels? I am thinking, in particular, of new discoveries of brown coal and of using this coal to produce electricity. I'm sure you know, because I keep asking you that this is about a possible new discovery in Wielkopolska. It's about Ochkowice. Isn't that another signal, in your opinion, that the exploitation or plan of any exploitation of new discoveries is simply meaningless? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u191	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u192	This law does not cover professional energy. Brown coal, if there was such a decision about new discoveries... Because for today is the decision taken by the Polish Energy Group to continue Złoczew, and the remaining deposits are to remain in reserve and our successors will decide on the possibility of using further discoveries. But brown will be used and should be applied to us in terms of energy power, only in professional energy. And this bill generally doesn't say anything, it doesn't say anything about professional energy. We are only talking about individual customers and those who have boilers with a capacity of up to 1 MW, i.e. those who do not directly use brown coal. As far as Oczkowice is concerned, she and Gubin are currently being prepared as a reserve of raw materials for the following years as part of the work of the Ministry of Environment. And the next governments will decide how much they want to benefit from the fact that in some places we have large deposits of brown coal that can be used in energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u193	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u194	Minister, Senator rapporteur said that the matter of the content imported into Poland in coal will be dealt with by regulation. I understand that the senator has agreed to this and that you are confirming this fact. And if so, I would ask for information when we can expect such a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u196	The four regulations will come out as soon as the law enters into force, because we have them ready and you have these projects delivered along with the law. We have therefore provided these regulations so that you have a whole catalogue of solutions. Even those samples I missed, and the ones you mentioned... The control authorities suggested that such sampling records would be sufficient for them to transfer samples taken at particular sections, whether in transport, or at coal storage sites to the laboratories. Because the point is that there should be control at the border, but that these checks should also be on individual landfills in Poland, so that... About the hole... Because this is a specific issue that has been quite well discussed. And for this, I would also like to thank Mr Gadęda for holding this committee meeting, as well as all the senators and senators who took part in the committee's meeting on this bill, because, I think, the problem is difficult for us. I generally accept the arguments that we have entrepreneurs who receive coal from the Far East or transport from the Far East, which during transport... I would say that when it comes to the hole, which is something that crumbles during transport, to be precise, it does not meet the parameters that we introduce into the regulation when we arrive at the border. We've introduced 10%. , i.e. with 1 t 10% There could be something that isn't carbon, which is, let's say, that repentant... not a piece of coal. And now there's a question of where we got 10%. These are the standards that were generally applied and used in Polish trade. We consulted with environments not only from sectors... Not only with some companies of the State Treasury, but also with those companies that operate in the space of sale and purchase of coal. I'm going to say that practically everyone has confirmed that this proposal is 10% It's logical and rational. Because, please, see, increasing to 18,20%... Someone's getting 1 t of coal, and there's no 20% of it. Carbon. We need to be aware of this... On the other hand, the entrepreneurs who organized themselves at the eastern border may have a problem with the fact that the coal that will arrive will not meet these requirements, because it drove tens or hundreds of kilometres, on the way it broke down, and in fact they will not be able to pick it up from the border, because at the border there will be control. That's actually a problem. However, we have tried to construct a relatively logical system, which has a certain philosophy in terms of parameters of individual fractions of coal and dust, sulphur and not only, knowing how it works on the Polish market and how it works today, to say the least, it does not work properly. That's where we offered it 10%. And there wasn't much dispute about that. Only... or until the representatives of the companies who were also at the committee meeting were picking it up. And what was decided at the meeting? It's been established that... And that's why the senator said it was a resolution in the regulation, because there's an appropriate record that might be kind of difficult for these companies to implement. And we're in a committee meeting... at least I suggested not to amend the bill, because the problem is actually in the regulation. So, what did we find out? That in the ministry next week, we're going to try again to figure out if there's any other reason to move this 10%. I don't want to make a direct statement here today, but that's the conversation we started. But I think 18%. It's definitely up to date. It's kind of like in the negotiations, you know. If someone wants 100 volumes, they'll ask for 200, because then they'll get 150 and it'll get even better. I'd really like to know. I think maybe we'll meet somewhere. .. or 12..13%. That's enough. Because, notice, in circulation, someone has to pay some percentage not for the product. And now the question is, should we decompose the system like this? Because there is indeed a danger that they will appear somewhere abroad mixed. But let's notice that if we clear it in one place, then the problems will also appear in the other, because it's not like we're gonna be able to clear just one element of the system. That's why we have a problem with that, and here I honestly say that we've been discussing it actually for two years. Recently, as if the intensity of the actions of those involved in this project is greater. It's not about being stubborn or being illogically rigid in your position, because that's not the point. These are our companies, they pay taxes, so we need to think about it. That is why we, as the Ministry, did not recommend amending the law, because we believe that the law is quite efficient here in all this. So we're just going to think about whether or not we're really talking about 10%. Touch it. But I would also ask you to be understanding that you do not believe that today I declare that we will, and if we do, if we do... That's because it's a little broader in context. Actually, all those who were at the table... And believe me, there were a lot of parties at the table. They even defended it to be 10%. So that we don't change this divisive for companies that offered 18% at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u197	Thank you. Senator Wczyła would like to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u198	Minister, I know that there was not a proposal to increase the share of this divisive, but a proposal to create the possibility of further segregation and only then to direct coal to control. And it's segregation in Poland. Is it possible to consider this option, and has the Ministry considered it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u199	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u200	Such an offer was made and, please, let's think about it together. If we want to control the system so that certain factions do not enter Poland, which, to put it mildly, can turn... Please see how much this will make it harder for us to control when we allow something from the border to Poland and only at a landfill will some enrichment activities be carried out. Because the fact that we're considering and thinking about companies at the east border... But if we introduce such a recipe, no one will guarantee that someone will not go to Warsaw, Poznań, Katowice or Szczecin. [[Exactly.]] How are we gonna handle this? And here is the problem that I would also like to share with you that this is not a question, as I say, of bad will, but a question of thinking about what this idea, which helps companies at the eastern border, can have consequences for the rest of the country. Therefore, as a representative of the Ministry of Energy, I did not recommend this solution, I was more inclined to see that we might still try to work these few weeks until the law came into force. Because that's where we're staying, because you're going to vote this week, then the president, and we're issuing a regulation. And even if we were to correct them in some way, it's always easier than a law. That is why we are more able to think about this percentage than to make the statutory amendment mentioned by the senator, which would actually help those companies that do not meet this parameter or may be at risk of being at 10%. It's a weird one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u201	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u202	Minister, at a committee meeting of all people like me who cared about the situation especially pensioners in rural areas who sunbathe their apartments with coal... Showing as support the Clean Air Program... But today, when you answer to Senator Radziwill, you've disturbed me a little. Because it shows that this program is a construction that is supposed to start in some future after the adoption of the bill. What's it like with this show? What measures are already available, how can they be applied for?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u204	Thank you, senator, for the question. The funds are available and the programme has started since the Prime Minister publicly announced the approval of the rules of the Clean Air programme. This was supposed to happen a month ago. And the program began to function and enter into force. Currently, the Ministry of Environment will consult It's already started. In practically every municipality, in every county, explaining how you can apply for what measures. We want to start implementing this programme as soon as possible. It's not like the show's gonna start next year, two years from now. The fact that there will be a bill is one of the elements of the larger puzzle. The fact that we may one day propose that we increase our funding for the heating system does not mean that this funding is not available, because we support people who, by way of electricity subsidies from the state budget... And these applications are sought by the municipalities on behalf of their residents. As it turns out that there will be more of these proposals, then we will simply increase the expenditure, we will apply for funding from the budget. The de facto programme is already in place and it is reflected in the fact that every year we add electricity to these poorer towns. The same is true when it comes to clean air. The program's starting with a lot of momentum. We're talking 100 billion zlotys. This is a really huge project, a huge program that is designed at the beginning of 10 years. He not only supports specific issues such as thermomodernisation, replacement of heating for gas, for electric, better boilers, making certain calculations in terms of energy efficiency of individual buildings, but also assumes air measurements, efficiency in terms of clean air. So, on the one hand, we really want to mitigate the effects of achieving clean air in Poland in the case of those people who can actually be affected by these processes... Well, not everyone has to be able to afford to make the right investments for their resources, for what they have in their wallet today. And that's why this extensive project, so extensive, so long-term program. It's really big money. If we're talking about 100 billion zlotys, it's really a big project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u205	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I've told you a lot, I've asked. We were talking, we were discussing at the committee meeting, and I didn't really want to take the floor on this, because I thought we had pretty much cleared everything up, but I think it would be good if the other people in the room could understand the problem with the percentages that we're talking about here, with these factions, with the poorer quality of this coal. Are we not going in the wrong direction, encouraging the minister to improve the quality of this... to increase the percentage... Well, I'm not talking about 18%, but that was the goal of these entrepreneurs. This means that in a ton of coal, if you agree with what entrepreneurs want, there would be 18% of this coal of any quality, and that in fact it would not be in the interest of the final consumer, because he would get worse coal. In fact, we should strive for this percentage to be much lower, because this is de. In fact, in the interest of the consumer, but it is known that coal of inferior quality enters the Polish market. He is delivered mainly to these large power plants, power plants, etc. It's in accordance with the rules, and it's gonna continue. Why, then, Minister, cannot the situation be brought about? I can't quite understand it. In which this coal, as it comes, even this inferior quality... Well, at the border, I think there'd be places. It could be said that this cannot take place in the centre, that it cannot be transported by Poland, that this coal at the border must be sorted so that only good, high quality coal can reach the final consumer, even less than 10% those little factions. And what remains of this segregation must be destined for these high-quality power plants, i.e. those large industrial power plants. Why can't this be done to take care of the interests of the final consumer, so that at the same time it doesn't eliminate those companies that deal with this segregation on the Polish side and that what remains is sold where it should be located?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u207	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u208	Mr. Senator, this is otherwise a valid argument, but it's also an argument... if we think about how much carbon we're talking about... [[Well, we know, it's a small part.]] And that's why I respect if someone has an individual market. But here's what I'm gonna say: I don't understand this fight about 18%. Why? Because today, professional energy will take every percentage because she can handle it. I may be wrong, but I don't see... Even after we talked, after the committee meeting... Turns out, these are 18%. It's not 18%. , it could be 15% Oh, yeah, that could be 13%. I'd like to know what's real, actually he's coming. After all, if we really want to control what is burned in our homes And we're in a lot of trouble with that. Or in small businesses that have these small boiler rooms... Any sealing will make it impossible for us to control it. After all, if someone has that coal they're bringing in, with a fraction of 18, 20, even 25 from crushing, energy will take it. [[Yeah, he'll take it.]] And I don't understand... And we know there's an energy coal market today, because it's coming in... And that's also my big concern and personal challenge... But this shows that there is a demand for coal in Poland. It also shows us a new phenomenon. Because so far we thought Poland doesn't need coal, but it does. Because even the fact that we have over 13 million tons of coal coming in last year... Even if we believe that we do not want coal, because someone from outside Poland, from the Union will tell us that no, Poland cannot extract coal, we need coal. And this is an action that shows us that we also need to change our thinking a little bit in Poland. And now that so many millions of tons go, among others. to the heat plant, goes also to the power plant... Well, it's not like they're big parties that come and they're sown in the East. In my opinion, these parties would calmly enter into the professional energy system. And that's why I don't quite understand why we have to do this individual... Because we're talking about individual recipients, who are, I don't know, 4 million, 3 million, even not, which is, I don't think, even 5%. the whole rotation. And when it comes to coal, it's gonna be even less. Let us note that we are talking about very marginal sizes, although of course These are our entrepreneurs and we need to lean on it. It's not like if someone has a small business, it means they shouldn't be noticed. No. It's just that you have to keep a certain proportion. 'Cause if we, because of the small scale of the problem, clear up and cause us to have trouble with what's in the jackpots again, what's on the coal sales sites... I'll give you a funny example that I always talk about because he's so bright. The Checzott mine has been gone for many years, and we know that all of us who live in the Silesian Voivodeship. A few years ago, one of the people in northern Poland said: "Lord, this coal from Chechotta has broken so bad that as I am putting it in now, I have so much dust... Well, it's not broken, it's just he's not buying from Chechotta, because there's no Chechotta. But at the landfill, no one will tell him he's already got another coal. And we want this individual customer, who pays a lot of money, to be sure that he's actually buying what's in that warehouse... And now see: someone pays 1 thousand PLN, but in general 180 PLN spends as a risk... because we have so much something that is not carbon. And there's a question... For professional energy, it's not a problem, they're gonna burn it. But for an individual customer, it's almost 20% of the cost. And if we're worried about increasing the cost of coal... Look, on the one hand, we're building a support program, and on the other hand, we want someone to pay 15, 18, 20%. more...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u209	Minister... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Good. Now, wait a minute, I'd like to ask. And is there a difference in the price of the coal and the one that's going to be classified as, well, he's got the fat coal out of it? Are there other prices?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u210	They're here. [[Well, then, Minister...]] Except you're buying fat with that thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u211	I understand, but for an entrepreneur who has... Why doesn't he want to sell to power plants, heat plants? Is there a difference in the price of the coal and the one that sells the power plant? I'm not... I am listening to this debate and wondering what the problem is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. If you can answer that question, I'd appreciate it. I now give the floor to Senator Slugock. [[I can, right?]] Of course. You have a voice. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And Senator Klein... [[I'd like to ask.]] ...in the next order. Okay? Because Senator Klein has dominated a little... And a few more senators are waiting for the question to be asked. [[Yeah, he dominated right away. One question he asked and dominated...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I like your way of thinking. You are very convincing, but I am wondering how to build a compromise between the care of clean air, the environment and the availability of relatively cheap energy raw materials for the smallest consumers that you have rightly spoken of, Minister, that is, natural persons, but also small economic operators. In this context, it is very exciting that small mining mines that extract brown coal and supply local, regional market, these very efficient boilers... This is a solution to the needs that minimises the risk of energy poverty. At the same time, you talked about securing significant, significant, largest deposits of lignite in Poland. My question is this. We import coal on a certain scale, I understand, while protecting our mining sector. Aren't you wondering, in terms of technological possibilities, that these deposits of brown coal should be activated? You have said that it is the other governments who will decide in what time and what to do with this coal. But isn't it worth diagnosing this potential more precisely today and making a strategic decision? I think every year of delay unfortunately works against us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u213	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u214	Maybe I'll say two words about the Clean Air program. It is right that the senator is talking about a compromise that needs to be reached. In the Clean Air program... What's going on with the thermo-modernization? It's about getting people to live on their own. Those in single-family cottages and not only They used, if they had a boiler, less coal. Because if there's thermomodernization, it's known that we use less of this carbon, which is why we spend less money on fuel, although it can be more expensive. Therefore, thermomodernization is one of the basic elements of this programme. But next to that, we also have funding for the purchase of boilers, gas boilers... that is, for the replacement of boilers. It's about gas and coal. Why? So that the inhabitants could make a thermomodernization, but they could also replace their old inefficient boilers so that they would need less of this fuel. This is an action that is going to make it more expensive, but we're going to need it much less, and we're going to use it more efficiently. And this is an attempt to reach this compromise. Hence so much money for this big program. This is a process. About the brown coal... Why did I say our successors? Because brown coal, having properties other than stone, cannot be transported for long distances. So there should be a power plant next to it. [[Yes, of course.]] We should therefore design power plants in the energy system, taking into account the raw material that is in this very opencast mine. Today, when we are building our energy system, we have this system defined by 2030, and the next, less detailed, by 2050, at the same time, we have to follow some guidelines which are based on the European Commission's recommendations, for example, on the so-called 'news'. the winter package. And now that the brown coal, which is in the parameters of CO2, is worse than hard coal... On the one hand, we have imposed additional taxation on such energy, because the more CO2 we have, the more we pay for this energy, and on the other hand we have to include brown coal-based energy in this system. And we, in order to meet the meanness parameters, have also Germany, in terms of clean air, CO2, NOX and others recommended by the European Commission... We have noticed that in order to meet these parameters in energy, in terms of the production of energy that meets the assumptions of the winter package, we can launch today the Złoczew, this is the discovery that is at the plant of Belchatów, while... Why did I mention the successors? Because our successors will have to assess how much energy we need in the system and how much we are able, due to CO2 taxation, to produce the energy that will balance with us. Something that makes sense today is to build reserves of raw materials and leave the successors the availability of the deposit. And after 2030 or even a little earlier, permanent analyses will have to be carried out, how much energy is needed in Poland and what energy should be produced from. And in this mix of ours, which will no longer be a mix based on 80% of the coal, the brown coal of this coal will be less due to the RES, the gas and the planned kernel... This makes it necessary to decide when to start the power plant with the opener. That's what I meant about the successors. That was my intention in this matter. [[Thank you...]] I'll add another apology, if I may, Mr. Marshal. That's... [[There you go.]] I want to tell you that what I am very happy about is the fact that after the brown coal programme has been passed... Because we have a program for hard coal, but we also have a program for brown coal. This has become very positive in my opinion, namely that in this environment It is about the institute, but also about the industry environment, far-reaching research has begun towards the gasification of lignite. We haven't had that so far, but the sector has lived a little longer, seeing that there is a plan for Złoczew. Mining companies related to brown coal They see their future here, which can definitely help us transfer this open-air technology to other countries. From what we can see, in some places, coal is excavated on very low decks. Hence the potential of our companies, which today are at Belchatów and will be in Złoczew, will be able to be used boldly in other countries, especially Asian ones. In this I see a great chance to promote Polish industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u215	Senator Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think it will be true if we say that the problems of coal and energy are less understandable, the more we move east. And what's really shocking is that over Bug itself, what we see, is that there's an excellent coal mine in Bogdanka, which, for the previous year, is probably over 20%. General coal mining in Poland, excellent coal, excellent coal, which then... We can only watch the train behind the train, having 40, 60 wagons, go to the other side of the Vistula, because on the right side of the Vistula we have no power station anywhere. Unless something's coming up north somewhere. And this coal is being transported to Silesia, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I know.]] The following question therefore arises: what is the relationship between the concepts of mining, coal extraction and Silesia problems? For me, these things are getting pretty rough. Well, I'm sure I'll speak with the power, because I'm obliged by my voters from Vladava, from Chełm, from Krasnegostaw to remind you as much as possible, most often about the fact that this excellent working mine, which also, as you can read, has excellent, expanded coal mining in its territory. And the best hard coal deposits of very high quality are in the vicinity of Rejowiec. There were designated areas for the mine and the last drillings under the mine's location were made, I must quote it here, thanks to Prime Minister Pawlak, who has been allocated in mining these are probably pennies. 8 million zlotys to perform the last drilling under the mine. Thickness of the coal deck: two ninety, two sixty, two twenty. All you have to do is do what Professor Kaliski presented in our inaugural lecture at the university on coal issues... [[Senator, question, question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] He said it's enough to extract only three decks of coal and we can add another 20%. So where does this mix of different problems come from that... Well, we don't know if they're solved, whether they're made, or if you're making combinations of them, because we're still extracting coal from deposits that have layers of 20 and 30 cm. And you don't even think about it... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to excavate... [[...a question, please. Because other colleagues are already rebelling.]] I understand them because they're big business... [[There you go...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] One more sentence, Mr. Marshal. [[Please. But in the form of a question, right?]] Wouldn't the 100 billion zlotys mentioned by the Minister have been able to allocate 4 billion dollars to build a double Bogdanka in Lublin? [[It's private business here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u217	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u218	I thank you for asking about Bogdanka. I'll start with... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Where is Bogdanka? [[Voice from the room: PGG.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you were to examine to the end who decided the fate of Bogdanka, you wouldn't have put some bold ones either. Bogdanka is in Enea Capital Group. [[The voice from the room: Enea?]] Enea bought Bogdanka, not in the days of this government. So today it's Enea as an energy group. And those are the ideas, ladies and gentlemen, which, I say, walk. I'm not in favour of them because I think it's a construction that I'm very pleased with. The creation of the Polish Mining Group, which finally organizes the investment plan and organizes the sales system, and Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, where mainly coke... There's some little things we've got in Coallokox, not including the Coallokox Country... Because there are two small mines. Please see that the potential of Bogdanka is enormous You're right about that. But Bogdanka is in line with the energy company that bought Bogdanka for this, so that Bogdanka would not be a coal reserve, as PGG is, but would serve the Enea energy group. And that he drives to other places... It's not because the Ministry doesn't see the problem, but in Enea it's a construction like in an energy company serving this energy group, and it drives Enea Trading. So Bogdanka excavates, approves the whole energy plan and is driven especially in the energy group... Let me put it this way: if it had been for me to decide a few years ago, I would never have... fought so that Bogdanka wouldn't be in the energy and capital group because she lost her ability to be independent. And today you're right to say that... and that's what we're considering... I have to tell you, we're having conversations about how to organize funds for these good deposits, because they're good, really good. I do not treat Bogdanka against Silesia or the Silesian mines against Bogdanka. No. If we have 15 million tons of coal from the outside, then see how much space is available for Polish coal, including from Bogdanka. But what happened in Bogdanka? As Bogdanka, being in the capital group, has no plans to be a reserve of Polish energy, widely understood or Polish security sector, in terms of coal, this year's mining is falling. There is no investment in the conversion, which should be increased, there is no investment in individual coal deposits, because there are other relationships in the capital group. And here we have a pretty big problem because... I think it's a good thing you asked because it has to sound like it. We sometimes try to make purely financial constructions, under the stock market, under financiers, and in industry there is a different principle of functioning. As far as industry is concerned, it is often necessary to give up dividends to invest, often it is necessary for a few years not to make profits in order to build an entity that is strong and strong and grateful in terms of financial functioning in terms of profit, but also, and especially, in terms of raw material. That is why we are now trying to influence the development of Bogdanka. I do not hide that I tried very hard to support Bogdanka while building a strategy, so that Bogdanka would enter the market more as a raw material security, because she has the potential and today, when some mines are chilled in Silesia, whether there is a problem with the mine, for example, happy, Bogdanka could enter the market more widely. But, as I say, she's in some capital conditions, and the principle of its functioning is different. I would also like to say that we are planning to build a financial base, to actually consider whether it would be competition for Bogdanka and to build a mine in this area. You must know that it is not that the state budget can give 4 billion. Well, in a market economy, someone has to do an assembly that says we give 4 billion and they turn back in time. This is the essence of things. Often, ladies and gentlemen, there are entrepreneurs from different parts of the world who come and say they have a good idea to build a mine. And why hasn't any private contractor built this mine in 10 and 20 years? 'Cause the risk of a lot of money... Because the price fluctuations in world markets, in terms of raw material, are high and the risk of investment is high. And that's why those who already have mines or even have resource institutes like our institutes or our engineering, design facilities, mining companies... It's definitely easier for us to design anything. And we, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland, are dealing with the issue of building, I think that already for sure, a mine that would allow to increase the amount of Polish coal on the Polish market in terms of 2030, otherwise we will continue to build a market for external contractors, for external mines. I am not saying that there should be no external coal in Poland, but I agree that 13 or 15 million t, as this year may be, is at least 8 million t too much. So I share this concern and understand the call for a new mine. And just for the record, Mr. Marshal... In this Senate term, in this parliamentary term... Since time immemorial shafts have been synonymous with mine, although it is not quite so that shafts... It's not always a mine, it's one of the important elements of the mine. There is the construction of the shaft in Jaworzno, Tauron has built a financial assembly with PFR related to the construction of the shaft and access to new coal decks, so as to have access to the raw material and to have security in respect of Tauron's energy company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I just want to say that I don't remember, and for 20 years I've worked in this industry to make sure that 20-inch decks are ever used, because they've never been used. That's by the way. But here's the question. There were no 20-inch decks. [[We're finally back to the bill.]] I move on to the question and to the law on the monitoring and control system for the quality of fuels. Minister, in the resolutions adopted, including the Slaskie Voivodeship in §6, it is said explicitly that the use of brown coal and solid fuels produced using this coal, mules and flotoconcentrates, fuels in which the bulk share of hard coal with a grain of less than 3 mm is prohibited. , and solid biomass. Regional resolutions do not prohibit the use of coke, which is the cleanest fuel, because it emits the least smoke and dust that cause so-called. low emissions, and a lot of boilers... I'd like to get back to the subject raised by a fellow senator. The transformation and adoption time for the new technology, for the high-end boilers, for the new generation is set in a few years perspective. It can't be done in a year, in two or three years. Therefore, I have a question: will this law eliminate the possibility of using coke?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u221	The question is, where will the senator buy and burn coke? I didn't notice there was any funding for new coke boilers. All I know is there's funding for gas and coal. [[But the coke's on fire and...]] All I'm gonna say is that I... [[But I asked the question, Minister.]] I understand that in general we sell coke to the steel industry and there it plays its role. I do not know the data on common use in the Silesian Voivodeship, in other regions of the region it is about using coke as fuel Or even in rural areas. I don't know about the universality of this phenomenon, but maybe it is. I'll recognize it. [[I asked if there would be a possibility of using coke. I can give you dozens of coke sales places for individual customers. Today, cast iron boilers are suitable for this. Question is, will there be an opportunity?]] Mr. Senator, in regulations... it will be possible to smoke if the parameters that we have in the regulation are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u222	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm glad we're back to the essence of the bill, because she actually... This is a bill that talks about the quality of coal, about the quality control of coal, which will in practice be delivered to households. It's kind of the essence of the whole bill. I'd like to get back to my question. Why can't you just... This law also provides for a whole carbon quality control system. He's in the bill well described. Why can it not be possible to ensure that quality control takes place at sales points or segregation points? Why can't you do that? I keep coming back to the issue of importing coal from abroad, mostly from Russia. We say that we are not going to allow lower quality coal into Poland, and in practice, as the Minister knows... If we limit this, there will be de facto the elimination of smaller importers or perhaps even those who are engaged in segregation, and all trade in coal will probably be dominated by several large foreign Russian companies that will introduce this coal into industrial energy, because that's what they do now. Why can this check not be carried out at segregation points so that this coal is indeed of the highest quality?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u224	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to deprive control at the border... Let us note that we are building a system where we will need to increase the number of people and expenditures to control the landfills permanently and in every place in Poland. Because the fact that a few companies in the east will be able to introduce this faction... Notice that the market will not keep void. Someone's gonna fill the void. Entrepreneurial people are very efficient. And now the question arises: what do we want in Poland? What do we want? Do we really want to... On the one hand, everyone expects... that coal is guilty of smog. I don't think it is. [[Minister, if there's a simple method...]] It's not simple. It's not simple. I'm describing... Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like... you're still dragging the question of a few percent, right? And I understand that. That's the problem... [[I don't want those percentages at all...]] I can't figure out how to build a system when coal will enter not only for these few companies, because others will immediately introduce it to other parts of Poland. Notice now that we will now have to expand our internal system, denying ourselves the possibility of throwing something at the border that is ruining the market for us. And the other thing. We bear the costs in our companies, we impose them on the conversion, so that this coal is of a different quality, and we allow it to enter this other quality. On the other hand, we are talking about a small percentage of the market. And I'm gonna say... Well, I don't quite understand why those people who import this coal can't relate to professional energy. After all, they can sell it there and there are no colossal differences in prices Only fight for this small piece of the market for individual customers. And how are we supposed to secure... On the one hand, you rightly care about the costs of the people who are to buy this more expensive coal. Well, how are we gonna explain to somebody that he's going, he's buying, and he's got 18% in it. Something he won't use, and yet he has to take it and throw it away and deal with it while he buys coal? And how are we supposed to enforce that? [[But I'm not talking about 10%...]] Well, we've got 10%. ... [[I know, but everyone...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u226	Okay, I'm sorry. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: But, Mr. Marshal, 10% is and this possibility is...]] ...there's no jury discussion. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will return to our discussion, but she I want to reassure my friend, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. It is absolutely in line with the law we are discussing. Because what I asked the Minister about is also a risk of importing low quality hard coal into Poland. And it is good that you note, Minister, that excessive imports from Russia of coal, which according to various estimates can reach up to 17 million tons this year. And now my question is this, Minister. Because I also want to go back to that possibility by signing up for... Because you are absolutely right when you talk about certain obligations arising from the integration of Poland into the European Union: the winter package, the issue of modernising the Polish mining and energy sector, nuclear energy, etc. Just pay attention, Minister, that this year we will import coal from Russia on such a scale. How does this apply to the Winter Package and Poland's commitments to our membership in the European Union? Why are you calm here? I think that should bother you, too. That's one thread. I'm not talking about those threads Senator Klein was talking about. But I would also like to ask you for such a long-term strategy of reconstruction, reconstruction, modernisation of the energy sector in Poland. ♪ I said ♪ You've noticed it to a small extent. It's about technological progress. And we agree that we have brown coal, we agree on carbon emissions, but I understand that all of this can be calculated very precisely, Minister: and the costs of extraction, and the costs of carbon emissions, also over many years, are estimated. It is agreed that there are fluctuations in the global markets for energy raw materials, but this can also be calculated to some extent. And why don't we make a bold decision if we have the largest deposit of brown coal in Europe, and that's what it's estimated, I'm thinking of the deposit of Gubin-Brody... If we can locate an energy block there, there's a lot of potential, we have, as you know, obsolete energy blocks from the 1960s, the 1970s... Whether we want it or not... [[Mr. Senator, question. 'Cause I'm gonna start measuring time.]] Okay, I'm done. Whether we want or not, we need to modernise the energy sector in Poland. Don't you think that in this context brown coal can actually be a good alternative because of the efficiency of boilers, and also the elimination of possible pollution for the environment? I'm also surprised to see Senator Gawda, why in Silesia I understand that this is also the protection of my own mining sector, and that brown coal is not allowed. 'Cause I think that's what Senator Gawada said about funding... That's what you said, my dear Adam... [[He read the resolution, the resolution of the Sejm.]] In this resolution... Yeah, but that's what you said. But maybe I heard it wrong. Then I don't touch Adam Gawada, I'm sorry. I'm addressing a question to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u228	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u229	Mr. Senator, that's a good call to the subject. Next to the plan... How about this: what is the phenomenon we have today when it comes to Polish energy? On the one hand, we have to turn off the obsolete blocks, and we know that. These blocks must be replaced with modern blocks, e.g. the investment of Jaworzno Tauron is being carried out for this purpose, and the investment started by Ostrołęka also has a kind of task. But we have next to this second phenomenon, a greater increase in energy demand than in previous years. This, on the one hand, causes us to answer when we disable certain energy blocks from the system, which and what we replace them with. Because they also do not meet the parameters of the so-called... no, they allow them, due to CO2 issues. And now we have to keep up with investment and economic growth. So these two things we put together and we analyzed when we needed and how much energy we needed. Of course, these are simulations, so you'll have to analyze the data every year, observe if something doesn't change. We are also facing this problem that there is a great deal of pressure in the European Union to ensure that the flow of energy to Poland is free. So the energy that is in Germany, renewable energy and brown energy, so they have an average in terms of CO2... But this also allows at certain times, when it blows more or shines more, to have an excess of energy. And this energy can even go, ladies and gentlemen, for ridiculous money to Poland. It causes that when we don't build our system So let's try to speed up the big effort that our system will be coherent and competitive • we will eat energy from the outside, which will cause, if it affects, among other things. renewable energy from the outside, it will make us have to brake the conventional blocks, which are less flexible than gas. And this is a phenomenon that we also need to take into account and which we are considering. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, investment expenditure in energy is large, significant. When it comes to Gubin-Brody, it's a full agreement, it's a very good deposit of large size. And here's what I'm going to say: in this area, this investment would definitely stimulate even economic growth, we would have a problem with environmentalists, because that's where we have it. However, someone has to start this investment from the financial side. And she's pre-assigned to PGE, which has brown coal energy and has some technical predisposition for that. Today, due to the condition of energy companies, there is also a problem of financial assembly. And among others. Gubin-Brody compared to investments in gas energy Whether in coal-based energy, or in brown in Złoczew, or in planned nuclear or renewable energy, which we also plan for the Baltic Sea... This makes it possible to have a huge financial problem to build a power plant and build an opener. Because we have investments with huge financial resources at a certain time. And that's why I feel it, but that's my opinion... Well, all these calculations show that by 2030, having the challenge of withdrawing certain blocks by 2021, 2022, plus an increase in energy demand, we are not able to launch this opener with the power plant, because we would not have borne it financially, nor would we have fulfilled the ecological parametries that the European Union is imposing on us. Because we also need to know that Gubin-Brody as an energy based on brown coal... Due to the imposition of CO2 charges on lignite, we are growing this energy price. Secondly, we also have distributed investments over time, and this adds to the fact that Złoczew we are launching, so we would then have 2 discoveries and in our system, when it comes to averaging CO2 in Poland, we might not achieve parameters. That's the problem. That's why one thing that's wise today and what we can do... And here I'm sorry to keep calling the successors, but it's important that we have, as far as Gubin-Brody is concerned, but not just the diagnosed discovery, and that we can leave it so that we can decide in the future whether we're going to run it, what year, with which technology... Because maybe we could use this coal technologically. So the main point is to leave available deposits in the raw material reserve for successors and to bear in mind that after 2030, when a deeper analysis should take place, one would have to see where Gubin could have been launched and what resources could have been used to launch the power plant plus the discovery in an investmental way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u230	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u231	Minister, that was a very interesting statement about Gubin-Brody. I'm impressed. But also, as a pragmatist, I always look at those who have some solutions that are somehow behind them. I'm sure you know. 'Cause I see you've got a lot of knowledge. That literally right behind them, on the same deposit, those pragmatic Germans who shut down nuclear power plants... And I want to tell you that in the town of Jänschwalde, it is next to Guben and Guben and Gubin is an old German city divided in half and there is the same deposit... And I must tell you, Minister, that I am a border man and I am watching there this power plant that was built by engineers and Polish workers. I'm sure you know that. In the 1980s. Well, these pragmatic Germans are shutting down nuclear power plants, one by one, and this three thousand. Because it's a huge power plant, at 3,000 MW They're still modernizing. So, Minister, it's also worth paying attention to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u232	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you all. Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The purpose of the amendment to the Law on the Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality and the Act on National Tax Administration is to introduce such a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of solid fuels, which will as a result reduce emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases and other substances. But here, as with any law, we should ask ourselves: what is the cost of achieving the objectives, and is it possible to reduce these costs? As I represent the Elbląskie and Warmia-Mazurskie district, which is bordering Russia, I must draw attention to the fact that after the changes, the law will hit Polish border terminals, those along the Polish-Russian border, as well as those at the border with Russia and, to a lesser extent, Ukraine. And these terminals are supposed to employ nearly 2,000 people and operate coal handling mainly in imports, but also in transit. The Act very radically sets the maximum rate of 10% Dilute amount in fat coal. This indicator is practically not available for coal transported by rail from far distances, because naturally this coal crumbles and reaches in pieces smaller than the statutory 63 mm. It should be added that it will still be coal that meets all environmental standards, and features such as calories, sulphur content or ashes will not change in it. However, such a solution will rule out the possibility of transporting it to Poland as thick coal. High Senate, it's not about loosening requirements. Although this possibility should also be taken into account But to allow Poland, after transporting this coal, to re-sort this coal so that after the losses caused by transport it can restore the correct parameters. And only such prepared coal should be inspected so that the final customer receives the right product. It's to be done. This requires a slight modification of the bill, and technically, in my opinion, it is also to be implemented. The proposal with an appropriate amendment to the bill, which will enable such a process, I submit on my own behalf and Senators Mieczysław Augustyn and Kazimierz Kleina with the hope that they will receive the support of the senators. Why do I think this proposal is important? Because, first of all, if not us, not Poles will make this selection, then the Russians will make this selection. They're gonna do this job and they're gonna get paid for this job. That coal's gonna get there anyway. If the standards are so high, it will be prepared for export to Poland, but in Russia, it will be prepared at the border, but on the other side. And let us consider that when we talk about Poland, we are talking about Eastern Poland. About the one for which the 5% The coal you speak so lightly of is 95%. the ability of these people to make money. That's a different scale of look. If you look at the problem from the perspective of Braniew or Bartoszyc, this world looks a little different than from the perspective of Warsaw. It would be good for the Minister to be able to look at Polish problems from such a perspective. And the second argument, also addressed to the government. This government recently wiped out a small border traffic. From the perspective of Warsaw he also solved some problem, a small problem for this government. But for this cross-border community, for many people, he wiped out the source of earning, of making little money, but he did. He eliminated medical points, cosmetic points, eliminated commercial points where the Russians bought more than the Poles in Russia. And those regions that are so affected by government policy should mostly count on government help, because these are poor regions. Now, if the government takes down the terminals and the few hundred or a few thousand jobs, it'll be on its conscience. And the third argument. This coal can still go to Poland, but not directly across borders, for example. Polish-Russian or Polish-Belarusian. It can hit, for example. Lithuania and Lithuania, on the basis of EU rules for the marketing of fuels in the European Union, will go to Poland. What will be the result for Poles? Yeah, well, that coal's gonna get here, but it's gonna be more expensive. It'll be 30% more expensive, as it's estimated. And by adapting this coal to the conditions, so that it can be sold here, it will be earned not by Poles, but by the Russians. And this price, this higher price will hit mostly household budgets, and that's mostly I'm gonna add it again. In the poorest regions in Poland. Some of them are probably going to heat up the waste, the tires, and other toxic materials that we should be able to fight against smog. And this is another, of course not intended, but expected, effect of this law, which, ironically, is supposed to reduce emissions. Some probably, as Senator Radziwiłł says, will simply stop heating up their apartments, which means they will start living in worse comforts. That will be the result of this bill. The Minister claims that ministers know this problem and seek a solution. However, to this problem, which I am talking about, they have no conviction, fearing that it will be so complicated to carry out controls already in Poland that it cannot be handled. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is not some desert that cannot be controlled. Well, don't tell me you can't check cars with coals abroad. And so I think: I will make this request so that this selection can be done in Poland for one more reason. Because if the Minister claims that it is possible to regulate something by regulation, then let the Minister regulate by regulation how to secure Poland so that the fees are correctly charged and collected in the appropriate place. And this is a safer solution than counting that this regulation will solve the issue of this transport at all and secure the possibility of importing heavy coal. Why am I talking about this? Because a year ago, we were working here on water law. I remember the minister who swore that the taxes and fees introduced into water law, whose forks were very widely executed, would be minimal for two years. And what happened? Six months ago, the water law passed to another ministry, the minister who was so promising here, stopped being a minister, and the fees are 500%. higher. I do not want to wait for a regulation because I do not have so much confidence that this regulation will come immediately and that it will safeguard these interests. This experience makes me want to make this amendment. Finally, I would also like to add that there should be no confusion and that the senators should be aware of what they will eventually vote for in support of this amendment. We are talking about coal, which is not a competition for Polish coal, because the extraction of coal in Poland does not cover needs and this coal will still have to be imported, only that, as I said, more expensive. The problem is basically a few questions. Do we want the bill to take away the work of employees of Polish terminals located along the eastern borders, and give this work e.g. The Russians? Do we want coal prices to increase in Poland? And do we want the poorer part of Polish households to heat up their apartments by burning garbage and waste? If not, I ask the senators and senators to support the amendment that I am making on behalf of Senators Mieczysław Augustyn and Kazimierz Kleina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u234	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking for this correction. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is a law of great importance, of great importance, because it concerns all of us, all of Poles. It's rare to have a situation like this. We all breathe air, which today is one of the most polluted in Europe. It is about our health, about our future, also about the future of our children, so, of course, it is right to strive to reduce emissions. And in this respect, this law does not cause controversy, doubts. There are things to do. It is high time to make them, only that one needs to understand correctly the moment when we do it, and remember that the bill has various effects. The first fact to be taken into account is that currently energy prices in Poland are among the highest in Europe. They're already very high. Coal prices went up by 7% last year.10%. , this year by 15%. We're summing it up and it's an increase of 1/4, 1/3 of the price of coal. In such an environment, we are taking these necessary measures at that moment. I repeat: necessary. It must be remembered that Poland is a country which has a huge percentage of people suffering from energy poverty. We are told that one in eight people is in a very difficult situation, so difficult that they cannot finance energy costs without damaging other necessary life expenses. Thanks to 500+, these people are a few percent less, but this does not apply to this group, which increasingly stops its income from the others. I mean, the pensioners and the pensioners. So the bill concerns 5.5 million households, but 2.5 million people sentenced to energy poverty... These are our national statistics, confirmed by European research. 10% energy consumers in Poland spend so much that they do not have enough for drugs, they lack for other basic needs. Already in 2014, the problem of energy poverty was noticed in Poland. It was then introduced for those who receive the apartment allowance, additional funding for energy. But it's just 1/12 of the amount it seems to be, it's symbolic money. In a few questions, it sounded... I asked at the committee meeting whether we realized what it meant to these people, for those poorest people who often do, it is true that I am speaking to Minister Radziwiłłła, remembering his question But more out of necessity than out of recklessness, they burn to what poisons us many times more, because of various kinds of plastics. When you drive through some villages, you feel it from afar, you don't need any standards. The Minister replied that we have the Clean Air programme, that we have 130 billion for 10 years. But it's a program that's just starting. It's not until August 1st. And meanwhile, these poor people, to pay a little less, they have to try it on right now, because it's gonna be even more expensive in the season. Very often in the country you buy in the summer to save even a few pennies. I would like to express my firm opinion that these large investment measures Let's stress: investment . which can be a source of savings for the poorest, do not address the problem of energy poverty, which will be deepened by the implementation of this law. I'm sure the minister's right that he's been cutting coal a little bit before last year. Yeah, but that doesn't explain how he went again this year, at an even faster pace. I'm not saying it's just because of this bill. It's just that coal all over the world is getting more expensive. The Clean Air programme requires that you have your own resources to be eligible for funding. So that even the poorest must have their own money. Within a range of 1 thousand, 1,5 thousand PLN to bet the cauldron. And the statistics show that these are often 1-person households where there are no savings. That's why I think these people In contrast to others who have money and will even have lower funding They will be less likely to be the last in line, although they should be the other way around. They should be the first to get help because they need it immediately, but they can't afford it. Not to mention that since these calls are due from August 1st, the information campaign should have been going on for a few months, because these people are really people who are often elderly, who do not really know how to reach for money from the budget, because it is related to various documents that need to be submitted. There aren't many. I was quite careful about the Clean Air program. He looks pretty friendly, but not for a 70-, 80- or 90-year-old. It is important to remember that we still have demographic change for all of this. We're talking about people like that, 40% of whom. There's no family that can help them. I would like to stress this here and ask the Minister to get very involved and to come to these people with help, for example technical help, to correlate these actions with the activities of social assistance centres, so that they can help to raise money for their own contribution. Otherwise, this program will have so many people willing that it may even run out of money, but it will not involve people who are in the energy field of poverty. The disadvantage of this whole project is that helping people who require it goes a few steps behind a law that will impose additional financial burdens on them. It was these people who were very much counting on 500+ for pensioners, but they had to do with nothing, a dozen gold increases in pensions. There are two values colliding with each other here. It can be seen that the Ministry has tried to take care of one issue honestly, properly and properly. And that's something to be praised for. But, unfortunately, when it comes to energy poverty, it is actually getting far too little, far too late and too little offensive, without thinking about the needs of old people who may be helpless against bureaucratic requirements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u236	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're discussing a very important bill today. There are some things that need to be sorted out in this discussion and pointed out what is the main purpose of the law along with the regulations. For many years there have been discussions in Poland about the problem of air pollution, about the fact that we breathe, especially during winter periods, air heavily contaminated with dust, which comes from domestic boilers. Professional energy subject to completely different restrictions, other regulations have long been used by very high-efficiency desulfurization systems, emission quality monitoring systems, as well as filters, which make emissions from professional power plants, industrial power plants, CHP plants virtually unnoticeable. Today, the discussion is about monitoring and monitoring the quality of fuels. I would like to thank the Ministry of Energy first of all at this point for having taken the difficulty of preparing the bill together with the regulations. The regulations that are being submitted to the High House today show that a comprehensive programme has been prepared, in which one of the most important links is the fuel quality monitoring system. Because we need to be aware that the plan for responsible development The plan, which today affects very extensive energy-efficient activities, including heat, must also take into account that we can effectively and effectively control what is dedicated to consumers. I will give you this example: after all, liquid fuels of different quality affect the Polish market, the quality of gas varies, and for each of us, it must flow from the distributor, which meets the requirements of the appropriate quality. This will also be the case in connection with this law, i.e. coal will have to meet the relevant parameters in coal sales. And that's where mostly the commercial inspection and the other control authorities will be taking samples. Moreover, the regulation clearly states this: the first regulation concerns quality, the second regulation on method of sampling, and the subsequent regulations refer to how this quality is to be determined. And the competent minister will be required to review, and this review will allow the parameters expected for coal or solid fuels in the relevant regulation to be modified in specific periods. But in order for us to talk about concrete things today, I would like to say a few words about what really affects the Polish market and what is the biggest threat. From the perspective of a man who worked for several decades ♪ Just like me and a friend ♪ In mining companies, the aim is to use coal in our companies, mainly in the Polish Mining Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, as well as in the Bogdanka, which in the vast majority will satisfy the needs of our market, not only professional energy, but also individual customers during the transition period. But we know very well that in recent years, especially in the years 2009, 2010, and in 2011, 2012 when prices in the world's solid fuel markets were affected when we had problems maintaining the right production potential and, on the other hand, we were flooded with cheap and poor quality Russian coal, we had to take some action, but these actions had not been taken. Investment was also abandoned. And investments in mining are not investments such as in a Polish company, which easily produces any elements. Investments in mining are investments that we can only notice in a few years. And that's why we're in such a hole today, which is why today is such a big coal import. This is because we are catching up on the period during which investments were not adapted to the coal demand forecast. Today we are mainly colliding with such a problem that each of us, especially those connected with the mining and mining industries, hurts that such a large amount of coal affects the Polish market. And it's not a matter of a year or two, because it's a matter of very serious negligence. Today, so that we can talk about how coal affects the Polish market, we need to be aware of the demand. And it often happens that we're confusing certain concepts. The quality with graining. In general, professional consumers, professional energy, receives energy coal, had energy content from 20, 21 to 23 GJ per tonne. On the other hand, individual customers take bulk sortements, which is practically the same coal, only less crushed Whether it's a walnut, whether it's peas, whether it's eco peas, whether it's other retopals, other fuels that are dedicated to fifth generation boilers, because such boilers can be used today to obtain subsidies from various low emission elimination programmes. Therefore, we must also consider today, in this transition period, how to carry out this process so that we can breathe clean air in the future. But on the other hand, we need to give these individual customers, those households that are not prepared today to acquire and apply a new heating solution in a short time, including the purchase of a new boiler. Because it is known that each programme also includes own contribution, and the modernisation of the whole system is the cost of several thousand PLN. Therefore, the programmes that we are proposing to the Government of Law and Justice are programmes that are spread over time, but which are effective and also take into account that in these large agglomerations where heating systems are, we generally distribute heat produced in heat and power plants. Because such a system is always the most effective and purest. On the other hand, where housing is dispersed, where it is not worth building gas distribution systems, we need to think about how these boilers and these heating solutions are adapted to the possibilities and portfolios of individual households. And here comes the situation in which we say that today the lack of coal on the Polish market, i.e. this coal dedicated to individual customers, should be taken into account. I am pleased that during the committee work, during the discussion, debate, very long but very substantively, also the Ministry of Energy leaned over a certain reflection to enable the entry into the Polish market of coals of good quality, but not necessarily fulfilling the mentioned parameter, which is within those 10%. Because I would be very satisfied if coals produced in Poland were directed to the Polish market. But today, for the reason I was talking about earlier, it's just impossible. Coal companies, mines are unable to prepare the operational front within a year or 2 years, which will allow for full, 100% security of the Polish market. Therefore, I think that this proposal, which allows the main elements of the control of the State Trade Inspection, to be directed at checks in warehouses, in sales, where sales are being made, will allow the coal that will enter to comply with certain parameters. Because the essential difference is that if someone declares that they enter Poland with coal directed to energy, they do not have to meet these parameters and conditions. But if someone declares that he is transporting coal to an individual customer, then his cargo, which he brings to Poland, must meet this parameter below 10%. And that's the main problem we're dealing with. After all, we want the fuel for households to be of the highest quality, to be simply clean, and the combustion process to take into account the most efficient, i.e. the reduction of exhaust emissions, the low exhaust gases that are damaging to us. If we looked at the map of Poland, we would see that today we have two major regions, about which the senator also spoke... I mean the Lublin Coal and Upper Silesian Coal Basin. And the difference is fundamental, my friend, Mr. Senator. Simply in Silesia we have dozens of decks, from levels 300, 400, 500 m to deep levels, even below 1000 m, reaching up to 1200 m, in decks from group 400.500. The decks in Jastrzębska Coal Company are e.g. Deck 510, which has 10 m of flesh. In the Bogdanka mine there are decks with slightly less flesh, but more regularity, located horizontally, which do not cause such problems, do not create such a number of hazards, especially those associated with them. These are the decks of the 382, 385/2, 389, 391. And these are forward-looking decks, very profitable in operation. But they are under 700 m in excess, and therefore also generate some cost of making available, much smaller than in Upper Silesia, because there in large agglomerations we operate, taking into account also the impact on the area. I'm gonna get back to the bottom of this and the fuel quality monitoring bill. In my opinion, this solution is very beneficial. It is part of this emission reduction programme... [[Mr. Senator...]] The last half-minute, and I won't use my time again, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. But the conclusion would be that during the review, Minister, we would just do it. analysis so as not to limit, as regards coal for individual customers, which in Silesia, in central regions, can be dedicated to our companies... And in order to take into account this vote, which was at the committee meeting, that in the north-eastern regions there may be problems with the supply of coal, whether from Lublin or Silesia, and therefore allowing the entry of clean, good coal with appropriate parameters is very desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Piech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! The problem of air quality, because this is a problem affecting Poland... According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Polish Government has not taken any steps from 2007 to 2015 to resolve this problem. This problem is known because it's been affecting us for the last 20 to 30 years. We have not been able to diagnose it, but at the moment it is a problem that needs to be solved and solved effectively. This problem was also affected by the Czech Republic. The Czechs started their clean air agenda in 2009 and are far further moving in all actions. This bill... Because monitoring air quality is one of the elements of this puzzle, this clean air struggle project. The second important element is the regulation on boiler requirements for individual farms. If we look statistically at housing in Poland, we will notice that we have 5.5 million single-family houses in Poland, of which 1.9 million are unheated buildings, and over 1.2 million are poorly-heated buildings, which require warming. Thermomodernization is a direction that will improve, definitely improve... We will solve the problem of air cleanliness comprehensively. Because at the moment, the demand for a building in Poland, a single-family building, is over 154 kW/m2. German buildings consume only 55 kW/m2. And here's the root of the problem, our smog problem. In single-family construction, in this municipal and residential segment, we use more than 12 million tons of coal. And that's the problem. If this program succeeds, we'll use significantly less coal, at least 50%. less. It's a matter of the quality of this coal, because it's important too. Five-generation boilers don't burn anything. Plus, we have industrial installations where we can burn garbage. And this combustion is carried out in other technological regimes. Burns are dusty, dust doesn't actually come out of a chimney like this. But in single-family buildings we will not use dust removers, because such installation would increase the costs of operation of the boiler. And that's why fuel must be of good quality. These are 5th grade boilers that won't burn any more trash, because you can't actually stuff a bottle, a rag and something else, because it just won't burn. Carbon is also uneven, because energy coals, i.e. 31 and 33 are still suitable for boiler combustion, but coals of type over 33 and up to 43 are either intended for coking or are already special coals. The problem is thermomodernization. And the government is already preparing a law on this issue. It's a challenge. for us to use... Because the government declares that it is going to allocate PLN 100.130 billion to this program. And we need to use this money rationally, so that single-family buildings and multi-family buildings, in which coal is still burning, can be thermo-modernized and reduced their emissions, because that is the most important thing. In Poland we produce 65.5 million tons of coal This is 2017 data. But in 1989 we produced almost 200 million tons. It's come down from the market because of what it's like... 29 years almost 100 million tons of coal, that is, our demand for this raw material is decreasing. We're also eating import at the moment. Import in 2017 was 13 million t, now it's going to jump to 15 million t, but we shouldn't worry about that. We should blow and sniff at these coal companies so they can normally get back on their feet and compete peacefully with the rest of the coal market. Because these prices are unstable. I remember the two thousand years when coal in ARA ports cost $25, not $100 like this. The cost of production is also much higher. The mine in which I worked had production costs of 100 PLN per tonne, and at the moment it is over 200 PLN, 270 PLN, while in coal mines mining up to 300 PLN per tonne. Why? Because we're going deeper and deeper with exploitation and we can't fool it. We can go down to 1 000 250 meters, we won't go down any further, because the conditions are so difficult there that no one will provide air cooling and improve working conditions. These deposits are running out. Silesia is very strong, Upper Silesia is very urbanized. In the 1970s or 1980s, there were 73 hard coal mines in Poland, and at the moment there are only 22 mines. And in these active mines, we have deposits with resources of 3.2 billion t, so with this extraction of 60 and 70 million t, they will ensure the 50-year service life of these mines. Coking coal is a completely different coal, which is suitable only for metallurgy. He's expensive, and this coal company that's extracting this coal, it's gonna be all right on the market. But energy coal prices are fluctuating and not always these prices correspond to our expectations, we would like them to be higher. Well, this was the case between 2011 and 2016, until mid-2016, only then did prices bounce back. We are talking about the import of coal, but in 2011 we imported 15 million t, and in the jackpots we had an unsoldable 8 million t of our coal. That was the problem, not the import, because the import was cheaper then. And none of the companies, district heating companies or energy companies, which are public limited companies, bought more expensive Polish coal, but ate imports. This bill is very important. I hope that within 10 years we will be able to deal with the problem of this polluted air, and this problem affects rather the south of Poland, not the north. Because the wind conditions in this southern region are definitely different, by the sea there is no problem, because there are winds of sufficient power and this smog is not created. But... [[Mr. Senator...]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, And in southern Poland there are cities in the valleys like Żywiec, well, Rybnik is also such a specific city, and as there are windless days and there is a negative temperature, it within 24 hours, these two levels of dust from the boiler room of individual houses unfortunately exceed all standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u240	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Probably about 10 years ago, the university I founded in Chełm received quite an interesting grant concerning the development of the resources of the natural Lublin region. That's when the news bag opened. With real news and some legends. We are talking about the fact that our country is quite poor in the sense that one in eight people is in a group of poverty. Of course, the distribution of this poverty varies greatly. All you have to do is fly from Warsaw to Chełm by plane to see what it's all about. In the same way, from Warsaw to Cracow or Silesia. Then you can see the problems we're not going to see when we're driving. Let me put it this way first. It turns out that outside of the coal, which was researched in the 1960s and 1970s... They were confirmed later. Lublin region should be one of the richest regions today. Why? Due to other natural resources, among others. brown coal located in the vicinity of Puławy, where in the 1950s there was an open-air mine. There is quite a large resource of brown coal, open-air available, which can be mined at any time. Come on. What else is there? There is natural gas there, there are 2 deposits, all you need to do is look at the data, the Mosquitoes and the Gods of John. Nobody touches that, and it's hard to be interested in. To be honest, by crossing different thresholds and opening different doors, I came to the conclusion that the most restraining thing for those who decide such matters is the name of the region. It doesn't matter that there are deposits of amber. People are extracting it, you can say, economically. I've seen pieces of amber worth a few million. So-called. The turtle shell was valued at about 7 million. At this moment, the Buddha's altar for China is built from this amber. But the former and present authorities have absolutely no interest in this. The same is true of coal matters. The ease of building a mine in that region is remarkable. The areas are almost empty. When she completed her work, a company carrying out the last drillings of the mine, which was labourably named Rejowiec, was found to have completely empty areas at its disposal. The costs of storing and mining coal, mining would be as low as possible there. That's how prices are shaped. I am very pleased to hear from Senator Piecha here about the cost of extraction. My records are similar. Most of the mines in Silesia, the deep ones, the cost of mining tons is approx. 400 PLN. In the case of Russian coal, it is about 270 PLN, Bogdanka is mined for 150 PLN, and Professor Kaliski, who helped to prepare the study, participating in this grant, stated that the cost of extracting one tonne of coal which can be mined in the vicinity of Rejowiec, would be approx. 100 PLN. So the simple question is, where is coal worth mining? It's where he's dearest. That's how you figure it out. And that's why what you say about coal... For me, it's mostly a fight for big money. For example, the sum that the Minister mentioned here, 100 billion... For 4 billion, you can build a mine in 4 years. That's enough. And it's a mine where there's no sinkholes, no jumps, where there's no rocks that get fast, because the whole load is chalky... And these three decks I've replaced, these are decks. Only up to 600 meters. I didn't mention those under 600 meters. This is why the issue of concentration, i.e. the function of entropy, the distribution of energy production in Poland, is extremely asymmetric. Everything we have in this range. Silesia... The whole right side of the Vistula... [[Cell phone signal]] Oh, I'm sorry. Someone figured it out... The entire right side of the Vistula, from top to bottom, is an energy-free area. The current is delivered from Silesia. Losses on shipping ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ between 20% ♪ a 30%. And when you talk about something new... Well, we continue to hear that it will be in Silesia after all. Maybe there's some regret in what I'm saying, because all the preparatory work in Lublin, or actually in Chełmszczyzna, has been done... And therefore, Minister, please, on behalf of our compatriots who live there... [[Cell phone signal]] ...that at least this one mine could be set up, and next to the mine, the power plant. There's a floodplain in preparation, which will be about 11 km long, stretching from Krasnegostaw, with a water level of a dozen meters, and nothing would prevent it from having a full economic justification and... [[Voice in the room: It's ringing again...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Well, it's impossible... [[Voices from the O.R.: Time's up.]] [[Yes, that was the signal of the end of speaking time, Senator.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to make such an undertaking work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Klein, Augustine and Vistula. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 900 and the report of the committee In print No 900 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 5 July this year. Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and certain other laws. The Act on the revision of the Public-Private Partnership Act submitted to the Senate is the result of many experiences connected with the current Act. This law aims to strengthen the development of the Polish public-private partnership market, to improve the quality of preparatory work and proceedings, and thus to achieve a higher effectiveness of contracts concluded in the public-private partnership formula. One aspect of the amendment is the alignment of the Act with the amendments introduced by the Law on 22 June 2016 and the Law on Public Procurement. The Act introduces a new chapter on assessing the effectiveness of the implementation of the project in the PPP formula. Prior to the initiation of the private partner selection procedure, a public entity will be required to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of the public-private partnership project compared to the implementation of the project in a different way. The public entity will be able to ask the Minister responsible for regional development for an opinion on the planned investment. This will be in the form of certification. An important change is the introduction of a new article into the law, which provides for the possibility for a public entity to agree to the conclusion of a contract by a single private partner company or a capital company whose sole partners are private partners and which has been established for the purpose of carrying out the project. In addition, the provision of the Article. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 provides that a private partner will be jointly and severally liable with the company for the damage caused to a public entity as a result of not making available to the company the resources which it indicated in the offer. In the amendment concerning, in turn, Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Public-Private Partnership Act provides that public-private partnerships can only be implemented in the form of a capital company, i.e. companies from the o.o. Or a joint stock company. So far, there will be no allowed formation of limited companies or limited-liability companies. In the new chapter, the Act defines the tasks of the Minister responsible for regional development as the body responsible for public-private partnerships. The Minister will deliver opinions on projects and promote good PPP practices, maintain a public-private partnership base and analyse and evaluate the functioning of existing public-private partnerships. The performance of these tasks will entail a broad information obligation imposed on public bodies as set out in Article. 16b and 16c of this Act. In the course of the discussion, the arguments were also raised as to whether this law and these changes would increase the value that would trigger a larger stream of such agreements, such investments. Of course, each of us has also been aware of the experience that has been so far, because there have been some concerns, limitations or, to put it mildly, aversion from local government units due to the high risk of such investments. The proposed solutions clarify the process of establishing public-private partnerships, give instruments to the competent minister and oblige public bodies to comply with the concrete solutions proposed. There were no legislative initiatives, no legislative proposals in the course of the discussion, and the committee adopted a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Minister for Investment and Development, I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The aim of the Act is to eliminate the identified barriers in order to allow further development of the public-private partnership market in Poland and, as a result, to increase the involvement of private capital in the implementation of public services investments in Poland and to further improve their efficiency. The provisions of the proposed law will allow for the application of solutions known from international practice, which should further increase the attractiveness of the PPP market in Poland. The proposed law is the result of the Responsible Development Strategy's review of the law in the field of public-private partnership and is one of the actions resulting from the implementation of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2017 on the adoption of the Government Policy for the Development of the Public-Private Partnership. The first reading of the Act was held on 12 April 2018. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development subsequently set up an emergency subcommittee to consider this draft law. One substantive amendment concerning the relationship between the public entity and the private partner and its subsidiary was taken into account during the work of the committee and the subcommittee. The other changes were legislative in nature. The bill was passed on July 5th. 422 Members voted in favour of the bill, which should be considered a major success. The proposed bill concerns amendments to the Public-Private Partnership Act and in 19 other laws and aims to introduce legal solutions that will enable the efficient preparation and better implementation of infrastructure projects in the PPP formula. At the stage of government work, the project was widely consulted in an expert group composed of representatives of local governments, ministries, lawyers, PPP market practitioners, and during inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultations. The comments and opinions submitted had a significant impact on the final shape of the bill. As a result of the most important planned changes in regulations, any investment in Poland co-financed by the state budget of over PLN 300 million, but not co-financed by the European Union funds, will be mandatory at an early stage of the preparatory work will be analysed in the PPP formula. PPP test. This analysis will then be the subject of an opinion by the Minister responsible for regional development. Any public contracting authority, regardless of the size of the planned investment in the PPP formula, will be able to ask the Minister responsible for regional development to give an opinion on the planned PPP project, so-called. certification. There will also be an obligation to analyse the effectiveness of each planned PPP project. Tools will be put in place to facilitate market monitoring of PPP projects. There will be facilitation in the procedure for selecting a private partner, i.e. there will no longer be mandatory criteria for the assessment of tenders, and the Public Procurement Law will also apply in the case of concession contracts. It will facilitate the financing of PPP projects, i.e. where the initially selected private partner fails to carry out the project, the financial institution will be able to identify a new private partner in order to ensure continuity in the provision of public services. It will become permissible for local authorities to grant special grants to private partners to finance or co-finance investments related to the performance of their tasks. There will be an increase in the freedom of local authorities to increase parking fees in newly created urban areas of paid parking in 39 major cities in Poland as a result of an increase in the current limit for 15 years and the connection to the minimum wage. There will be a possibility for a private partner to build, renovate, maintain or equip social assistance homes. All actions are intended to achieve the objectives defined in the government's policy on the development of public-private partnerships. 100 new public-private partnership agreements will be concluded by the end of 2020. The value of investments carried out in this formula will be at least 5% investment expenditure in the public sector. At least 10 private partner procedures will initiate the government sector, 40% General government proceedings will be successful. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to speak immediately, if that is possible. [[If necessary, please.]] Thank you very much. You've always been flexible, Mr. Marshal. Minister, local governments are afraid to conclude public-private partnership agreements. Is it considered to set up a body or entrust an existing body with the task of verifying and verifying public-private partnership agreements, so that it can be sure that the agreement is concluded on favourable terms and that the local government is not concerned about concluding such agreements? Minister, I would also like to say that I know this from an autopsy. For many years, local governments have not taken advantage of the huge opportunity that today, Minister, must be honestly acknowledged, as if you were proposing. Is there gonna be extra collateral?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u248	Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u249	Mr Marshal, as part of a wide range of measures to support the development of public-private partnerships, we are also introducing the so-called "public-private partnership." certification. The local government, which is interested in carrying out a given project in the PPP formula, may ask our Ministry to examine the proposal for a project. The Ministry of Investment and Development, namely the Department of Public-Private Partnership, will evaluate the project and determine whether it is economically justified and eligible for implementation in this formula. In addition, the Ministry of Investment and Development is developing model agreements to contribute to greater efficiency in the negotiation process. Of course, the use of these designs will not be compulsory, but voluntary. We're thinking of creating 4, 5 standardized contract designs. Prior to the start of the negotiations, the counterparties sitting at the table will be able to imagine what the target agreement should look like, in particular in terms of risk estimation. At present, only 25% of the negotiations on the conclusion of the public-private partnership agreement have been successful. I think that the implementation of the model agreements will contribute to a greater understanding of the subject and more partnership negotiations will be successful. Another element is a wide-ranging educational action to bring the idea of public-private partnership closer to local governments. We have been talking about public-private partnerships for several years now, the current law has been in force for almost 10 years, but there is still a great need for knowledge. Until now, we've trained approx. 1,700 people, mostly self-government. We also organised trainings dedicated to the control bodies, so that the audit authorities would also have a full understanding of the idea of public-private partnership. The issue of political will to implement public-private partnerships in the Responsible Development Strategy is also very important. The capital for development is a special chapter dedicated to the public-private partnership, in which it is aligned with other sources of funding for the development of our country. A year ago, as I mentioned, government policy on the development of public-private partnerships was adopted. She, among other things. set ambitious objectives that I have already mentioned to be achieved, and This was already pointed out in the Responsible Development Strategy itself, which first started the process of identifying barriers to PPPs, followed by the preparation of appropriate legislation, which is currently being examined in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u250	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much for your answers... [[Hello, I'm sorry, I'm still here.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u251	Mr. Marshal, I won't be missed. Minister, I'm concerned, I confess, the planned new institution: the mid-town parking zone. First of all, because there can be very high rates, the maximum is 0.45 minimum wage, and this is probably about 9 PLN. Yeah, am I right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Witold Słowik: Yes.]] [[You're right.]] [[Good.]] But what worried me even more And I would like to ask you to specify it in the city centre or district, but only in the city where the population That's over 100,000. Does this mean that it is theoretically possible to designate her in each district, which means to designate more than one urban area? And does that mean that we're gonna have this situation that the midtown area, or a few of these zones, is gonna be melted into a big city zone, this old paid parking zone? Am I right in thinking that's a possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u252	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u253	Indeed, the issue of parking is quite controversial and the subject is widely present in the media. The intention of the Ministry of Investment and Development is to promote primarily public-private partnerships, also in terms of the possibility of building large multi-level, ground or underground car parks. These investments are quite expensive and with the current limit of maximum charges not economically viable. I would like to point out that the current rates were fixed 15 years ago and are 3 PLN. In 2003 the average salary was around half of the current salary, and the number of cars in Poland was significantly lower, in the Mazowieckie voivodship there were almost half of them. During these years there has been a significant increase in traffic and it is much more difficult to find a parking space. The entire parking system became inefficient, especially in the largest Polish cities, including Warsaw, where drivers often circle for 20 minutes, 0.5 hours after the city, looking for a free space. So in order to be able to build parking lots in the largest Polish cities, this is the result of the proposal of local governments, because the proposal on the possibility of creating an additional urban zone with higher rates is an initiative of local governments... According to the law, this is giving the local authorities the right to raise the first hour parking fee under certain conditions to a maximum, as the senator said, 0.45 minimum wage. Local authorities will be able to make decisions in this area, with local governments only and only those cities with a minimum of 100,000 inhabitants. There are 39 cities and only if they carry out specific analyses on the issue of car movements in the city, parking, traffic analysis, which will result in the need to raise charges so as to optimise the issue of parking. In addition, the money obtained from the mid-urban parking zone will be somewhat marked, because 65% These funds will have to be allocated by local authorities to finance public transport, cycling paths and other environmental measures. The rule is, there should only be one downtown parking zone in one city. It wasn't accepted that they were in every neighborhood. Well, the name of the inner-city zone itself indicates that it is intended to be a zone limited to a strict centre, where the traffic is the highest, where there is the biggest problem with parking, or where the most economically justified is the construction of large multi-level car parks in the form of public-private partnerships. The question of defining cities that could create a mid-urban parking zone was subject to very large discussions during the public consultation. Originally, it was supposed to be cities with at least 200,000 inhabitants, but ultimately, under the influence of local governments, it was extended to cities with a population of more than 100,000 inhabitants. Also during the legislative process in the Sejm, at the subcommittee and committee meeting, this issue has been raised several times, and it is difficult to introduce any other objective criterion, other than the size criterion. There were also proposals for listing listed specific cities, but then these criteria would be vague and would give rise to doubts. Those cities that wouldn't have been entered would have had a legitimate claim to the legislator that they had been left out. In order to prepare cities for the introduction of urban parking zones, we have introduced here a long period of vacathio legis, 12 months, so that the Ministry of Infrastructure can amend 2 regulations, including the regulation on public roads, and so that local authorities can carry out appropriate analyses preparing the introduction of urban zones. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask the Minister again, using his presence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u254	Well, I can't stop you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u255	Then it'll be better. I'll calm down. Minister, I'll admit you didn't calm me down at all because you added your lips. Article 2a 13b doesn't talk about one urban area at all. He's talking about the downtown area in the neighborhood, and yet the division into the neighborhoods, even the statutory one... Well, there could be a few, a dozen in big cities. And in each of them, this zone can arise. You were talking about one thing, but that's an assumption, because it doesn't come from the text. There's one more thing. You were talking about ground and underground parking lots. Okay, but we're talking public roads here. I'm looking at the numbers now. It's an art. 13b paragraph. 7: fees, among others charges for these urban areas shall be charged to the road management and, in the absence of such a service, to the road manager. How's that for a paid parking lot? The question is who's building, who's paying, who's using it. Well, we know who's losing the driver, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u256	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u257	I think building underground parking is gonna benefit everyone. The drivers will gain, but the residents will gain the most, because as a result of the construction of parking lots and the establishment of urban areas will be less jammed and the emissions of exhaust gas will be less. I would like to point out what also has to do with the previous act, that in the largest Polish cities in the summer 50% smog comes from car emissions, including mainly passenger cars. Thus, the issue of the introduction of urban parking zones is one of the very important elements of the fight against smog in order to improve air quality in the largest Polish cities and improve the comfort of life of residents who live in city centres and face excessive pollution. As far as drivers are concerned, I think it would be much better if they did not have problems with circulation in Warsaw in order to find a parking space. Otherwise, you may feel that the entire parking system does not function properly. These actions, I hope, will also influence the fact that more and more people will benefit from public communication. Public communication is getting better and better. Trends are already visible, especially in Warsaw, that more and more people switch from their own cars and use public transport. So at the time of the increase in parking fees, if, of course, local governments introduce these charges... Because I would like to point out that it is not true that this law introduces higher parking fees. The draft law gives local governments the right to raise fees under certain conditions, but it depends on local governments, their will and the specific situation. With regard to the statutory provisions, I will say that in the case of urban areas it is similar as in the case of ordinary zones, i.e. in the city, although the zone covers many districts, we have a normal parking zone and it has been functioning for many years, and we will have a special parking zone, a urban zone.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for answering my questions. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In order to develop investments in Poland, huge expenditures are needed in many areas. Combining private and public capital has long been a difficult but necessary goal. This is going badly so far, so any attempt that brings us closer to finally succeeding is and must be received positively. That's how we feel about it. Although that doesn't mean the bill couldn't be any better. I will now propose a number of amendments that have already been tabled in the Sejm, where we insist, because as Senators of the Civic Platform, we believe that they are legitimate and will improve the bill, because it can be better. As we discussed this at the committee meeting, I will not develop this issue by saving your senators' time. [[Thank you.]] I'm just gonna raise two points. I was pleased as a man who was primarily involved in helping independent people, that in this law you also included the possibility of building social assistance houses and other support centres in the PPP formula. Indeed, the needs in this field in Poland are assessed by professionals for tens of billions of PLN. These are old data, not later, but Professor Kozierkiewicz estimated them to be 20 billion PLN. Such money will not be found by the government itself, and the creation of a second leg in the white economy, including in the form of a public-private partnership, would be very useful. It is only a pity that this applies only to investment expenditure, that it lacked the courage to include the functioning of social assistance homes in this partnership. Already today there are many social services houses built for private money and run for private money. Thus, in a situation of such good control standards and long-established procedures to comply with standards imposed by laws, I would not see here a special threat. Although independent individuals are indeed vulnerable, a large number of them, tens of thousands, are staying in private homes. And where they are conducted in accordance with regulations, it is good business for one side, good care for the other. And you could think of people who are not wealthy, whose stay is partly financed by the municipality, also in the driving formula. Perhaps this will be the next stage. I wish I could believe that. There is, however, one issue that aroused controversy, which a little bit of à rebours to what the senator said raised a discussion. Namely, the issue of these parking zones. The point is that many local governments would like to get this right precisely for the reasons that the Minister has been talking about here. This applies not only to large agglomerations, but also to well-known towns, resorts such as Zakopane. Just these days. I'm gonna let you give me a private accent here. My son was in Zakopane. There was no air. It was just a smog. And you just have to react. From Sopot, Zakopane and many other towns like this, mayors are asking for a chance for them to be themselves... And let's know that they're being controlled by their people, and they're about to be verified in the elections. They... [[They run a few terms.]] Some, some. In my district in previous elections, 1/4 of local government officials who seemed to have lost their positions in the local government to death were not elected. So the laws work. I am convinced that the local government will use this carefully and carefully. And I'm making an amendment... [[Time.]] [[I've got time signals.]] Yes. I am making an amendment so that all the towns... all the presidential cities, as well as the cities that are spa-like, may be able to establish urban areas for paid parking. It would be the realization of the dreams of tourists, the dreams of many drivers who would like to be able to park, so that it is not so that someone because of the low price for many, many hours takes one parking place, and from getting used to the new way of moving that these cities introduce. My city of Piła, a middle-sized city, creates communication centers from which you can easily reach any place of the city without driving there. We would also like to have the opportunity to organize traffic in the city centers. Minister, let us reflect on the amendment during the committee's work and trust the local authorities, because they deserve to do so responsibly. And if not, they will have to pay a very high price for it in subsequent elections, for example. I'm worried about the drivers who choose them. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. Marshal, and this extra minute. I'm making amends.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u260	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that there is a very low level of public investment in PPPs, but there has also been a very low level in the past. Both local authorities and entrepreneurs have repeatedly argued that the procedure for concluding public-private partnerships should be made significantly more flexible. I say these words, Minister, Senators, from my own experience, because for many years I have been an active construction entrepreneur. Today, to be honest, I envy the fact that, so to speak, an inactive entrepreneur is going to be able to benefit from it, because I see some very positive changes here. We can identify in this law a number of provisions that will significantly make the PPP contract process more flexible. I will give an example of introducing the possibility of creating a partnership on the basis of an existing public entity company. So far, I must say, this has not been possible. At the moment, these laws allow it. Bravo! Thank you. I understand that the legislator is concerned about the temporary privatisation of a particular sector, the provision of public services. This option will certainly result in a decisive reduction in the costs of the public-private partnership agreement itself. We, as entrepreneurs, have asked for this many times, Minister. This is a historical matter and I can say briefly: thank you. Local governments will find in this law a provision which allows them to include grants directly to investment costs, which is important from the point of view of local government units. The Public Finance Act contains expenditure rules. Art. 142 says that current expenditure cannot be greater than expenditure... Thus, in a very large number of local government units, the lack of the possibility of a direct grant to property expenditure caused that such a procedure by local government units was not considered. As former vice-president of the Lubuskie Seymour, I can say that we have repeatedly requested... Thank you. This is a good path that will allow local governments to approach this more optimisticly. In the Act we find provisions introducing the possibility for the company to sign a contract in the PPP formula It's very important. It was deliberately created by an entrepreneur whose offer was of course considered to be the most advantageous. This will be conditional on fulfilling a number of conditions designed to protect the public entity's interests. It also introduces the possibility, which must also be considered as positive, to amend contractual provisions in relation to the content of the offer on the basis of which the choice of a private partner was made, and to correlate the possibility of amending the contract with the provisions of public procurement law and the concession contract law. A very important matter, Minister. According to the current state of law, if the concession process was started on the basis of the concession law, it could not, I would say, go to the public procurement law. A solution to this will really make it much easier in the contract process itself. To conclude, I would like to see these procedures for selecting a private partner become less time-consuming and cost-consuming so that entrepreneurs can conclude contracts even more easily within the PP framework. These changes are going in the right direction, but this is definitely not the end and there is still a lot of work ahead of us. And something, Minister, actually at the end. You have to think of something that will take away the paralyzing fear, the really paralyzing fear of self-government. Because, as it was common among us entrepreneurs, there is still a fourth prosecutor. And the guarantees in this case would still have to result in a correlation with local governments. I think these investments And that's the huge money that's already frozen. They are still intact because fear paralyzes and self-government, and private entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Augustine. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Witold Słowik: Thank you.]] No, thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 910 and the report of the committee In print No 910 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u263	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Commission of the Regional Government and State Administration and the Infrastructure Commission on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 20 July 2018 on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership. The Marshal passed the bill to the Senate on July 20th. Please state that the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land is intended to be legally converted as from 1 January 2019 into land ownership for owners of single-family houses and self-contained premises located in multi-family buildings, together with economic buildings, garages and other construction facilities and construction facilities enabling the proper and rational use of residential buildings. The transformation will be paid for. Persons who become landowners under the law will be required to pay charges for the acquisition of ownership rights in the form of an annual fee for 20 years. The annual conversion fee will correspond to the annual conversion fee applicable on the date of conversion. It will be possible to pay a fee once. The Act sets out the amount of the subsidy which the competent authority may grant in the event of the payment of a one-off levy for the conversion of land owned by the Treasury. In the case of land owned by local government units, the granting of the increase and its amount will be decided by the competent council or seymist. The basis for the disclosure of land ownership rights in the land register and in the land and building records shall be a proof of the transformation which the competent authority shall transfer to the court competent to maintain the land and buildings register within 14 days of issue. The court shall, of its own motion, enter the ownership of the land and enter the claim for payment in the perpetual books. The obligation to pay a fee shall apply to the owner of the property in respect of which there is a charge claim for the remaining period to be paid. The bill is to enter into force 30 days after the announcement. The Act was adopted in the Sejm on 20 July 2018. The project is a government submission. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly tell you what the committee meeting was like. Well, the Legislative Bureau submitted 3 comments on the project. First note In short, it was about KZN, the National Property Resource. The idea was to add the words "land and buildings" and claim for an annual conversion fee. Because as far as KZN is concerned, this transformation... perpetual use will be maintained for 15 or 30 years. We remember when we were running this bill. There was therefore an amendment. The second proposed amendment of the Legislative Office. It's just that in the case of... overpayment... It was one word to add the word "one time" so that it was clearly underlined. The third amendment concerned the sum in the compilation, which is in the Act. The sum of the table has been rounded, and as we sum up the individual years, it turns out that this is to be PLN 1 billion 312.2 million, while in the bill it is written that it is PLN 1 billion 312 million. It was about rounding up. These comments were made by the Minister. The Minister said, with regard to this first amendment and, in fact, the second amendment, the Minister explained that, as far as this overpayment is concerned, further, in the next passage, the correct wording is used, so it can be interpreted so that it is correct. As far as KZN is concerned, these claims would probably be appropriate for those words to eventually be there. As far as this rounding is concerned, it is not such a significant amendment. Although I've taken over these amendments from the Legislative Bureau, but what was the finale, I'll tell you in a moment. As for the continuation of the committee meeting, then the Minister presented what I had already actually said, so you, Minister, will be a little bit more, so to speak, from the presentation of this release, because I have already said all this. The Minister has made it quite clear to us about this bill. He said that... he started, as I remember, from the fact that it's an important bill, that it's a good thing that it's being introduced, because we have to think about what's going to happen in the future, when this perpetual use is over, and we know that it's either 40 or 99 years and that time runs in different periods, so it might be soon, etc. It is therefore a good thing that it is being introduced. And it is right that both in the Seym and in the Senate we all support this law, all the more so since it concerns only part of the area at the moment, it concerns areas built up by housing, whether family or multi-family, and therefore there is no doubt that this is an important direction. As regards the increase, the Minister stressed that this was the case with the State Treasury and, as regards local governments, they themselves would decide whether to apply such a reduction. The Minister spoke of these 60% 'Cause that was the average that came out. Therefore, the fee for the land of the State Treasury is at the level of... i.e. no fee, only the discount is at the following level. This is mentioned in the table in the Act First year 60%, second year 50% And then 40%, and so on, this bonus is going to be decreasing. What else? And then there were questions. I, too, asked the Minister to update his annual fees, because this is also an important issue. Sometimes there were such arrears that these annual fees for many, many years were not updated and then came up with such a story that they grew, and incredibly, sometimes it was 100%, 200%, 300%, and even turned out to be more. Therefore, the municipalities did not always update these charges in time. And now, because this is going to be the state of January 1, 2019, it's... There was a question from my side about these updates, whether the municipalities will make time, because it is known that they spend some money for these purposes, you have to make a valuation, propose this fee, so that's not much time... But it's a little bit of a community matter, if she hasn't done an update in time, it's actually her fault, so that's the problem... During the discussion they also spoke at the meeting of the committee, mainly connected with housing cooperatives, Mr Jankowski, representatives of the National Association of Locators and Cooperatives, the Association of Polish Cities... They asked various questions to the Minister, but the Minister answered these questions clearly and I think there was full understanding. So there was no confusion. Although Senator Zientarski at some point wondered whether he might not have tabled an amendment in respect of this audit cooperative, he said that he might think about it, he would analyze it, but because I do not see it here, he would probably not report these amendments. The committee's meeting ended in the final way that Mr Piotr Zientarski had submitted a proposal for the adoption of the law without amendment. Because those proposals that the Legislature Bureau wrote for us, maybe other than this one, weren't so... And this is a distant term, KZN this is a further action... We therefore supported Everyone present at the committee meeting As far as I recall, there were probably 13 senators present and we all voted together, we supported this bill. Therefore, the committee's proposal is to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Valour and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 916 and the report of the committee In print No 916 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude and some other laws. The Commission met on 24 July, with the participation of the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Małgorzata Gawin. During the proceedings, Minister Gawin broadly justified the main purpose of the Act, which is the merger of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, a research institute established under the Act of 9 November 2017 on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, and the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki, a national cultural institution set up by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, acting in accordance with the Act of 5 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Under the Act, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude will receive new statutory tasks and its organizational structure will operate a research centre on totalitarianism. That is, the existing separate legal entity, the Totalitarian Research Centre. Witold Pilecki will be eliminated. The staff of the Centre will become staff of the Institute. The Institute will also take over the property and liabilities and claims of the Centre. According to the Act, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude will receive the name of Witold Pilecki. The Act provides for changes which constitute the necessary consequences of the merger of existing separate entities, as well as other amendments, including provisions modifying the rules for the use in subsequent financial years of grant appropriations for the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude granted in 2017 and the amendments introducing a new body of the Institute, namely the Scientific Council. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister stressed that the Centre for Totalitarian Research was established as a cultural institution. The task of the centre is to introduce in a modern way the Polish experience of two totalitarians into the memory of the world and to create an advanced Polish-English digital database of personal certificates talking about the German and Soviet occupation, restoring the memory of these events to Poles, as well as giving them access to an international audience. It should also be mentioned that the Center for Totalitarian Research has already gathered 8,000 certificates. These are full auditions, which were very often written from the written text by hand and properly tagged, so they allow you to search very quickly. As I said, they are translated into English, and this is something completely different. It is not easy to obtain these certificates because they are scattered after various investigations and trials. Much similar work has already been done by many German institutions, even more Jewish institutions. This is how these countries conduct their historical policies. The question is why Poland hasn't done this for so long. And that's what's gonna change now. And the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude took up its activities on the basis of the same logic that led to the establishment of the Center for Research on Totalitarianism. And what he's done in months... Thus, the main task of this institute was and is to reward people who helped Polish citizens who saved them mainly during World War II, although not only. During these six months, historians and researchers of the institute analysed about 80,000 certificates and selected 250 people for decorations. In autumn 2018, the Institute's Remembrance Council will forward to the Presidential Palace the first 11 proposals completed on the basis of very meticulously completed documentation. During these six months 50 film notations were also recorded, interviews with witnesses of history in very different categories. These are prisoners of concentration camps, these are the people who helped Jews during the war, these are forced laborers, as well as witnesses from Volyn. I will no longer return to the arguments to strongly support the activities of these two centres, but I would like to support this connection, especially since there will now be a large institute that will cooperate with many centres around the world. It is simply the combination of these two institutions to lead to a breakthrough in research on the German and Soviet occupation in Poland, to create space for international discussion, to exchange views, to then use this potential to cultivate historical memory and educate contemporary societies. This will create much better organisational and financial conditions for these activities. The Minister also raised the question of the duplication of certain competences of these two institutions with the competence of the Institute of National Remembrance or with other institutions of a similar nature, e.g. with museum facilities dedicated to victims and losses during World War II. And here a very important note: The Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude will be a strict facility scientific, researching the latest history, it is necessary that this extremely complicated Polish history be studied and shown in a professional way. Needless to say, there is still a memory in Western Europe, which the Minister called the Poaltan memory. This memory has preserved some false memory codes that still function today. Simply Poland ruled for many years by Communists, also Poland in the period of the Third Polish Republic... Well, it was a time when we paid too little attention to creating our own historical policy in the sense of: telling the truth about what happened, what happened to Poland. To break this, we can't drop all our assignments on the Institute of National Remembrance. Moreover, the Institute of National Remembrance does not have the right to award scientific titles, it cannot hold regular doctoral seminars. This will be the first institution to have the right to do so. As part of the research institute, the Institute of Fortitude and Solidarity will be Witold Pilecki... This will be extremely important for scientists. The Minister also mentioned at the committee meeting that Pilecki's centre had done a very thorough analysis of all press articles concerning Poland, which were published in the most important foreign press. Well, tragedy. This analysis revealed an incredible sea of ignorance, ignorance, when it comes to the Polish history of war time. This should convince us once and for all that every country in Europe and in the world is pursuing its own historical policy, and therefore Poland should lead it all the more. Tasks to be carried out by the Pilecki Institute from now on Because this is exactly what it will be called, it is not the tasks that belonged to the Institute of National Remembrance, and it is necessary for us to implement them in order to bring the history of Poland and Central and Eastern Europe into the memory of the world. The Senate Legislative Office has proposed several amendments to the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. It was, among other things. to introduce a new body of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, namely the Scientific Council. As pointed out by the Senate legislature, in principle, the Scientific Council is to acquire the competence of the Scientific Council of the Research Institute, as defined in the Law on Research Institutes. No, on the basis of a general reference to the latter Act. However, the competences of the Scientific Council go beyond the advisory and advisory functions and include the activities of the Council as the body constituting and initiating the activities of the Institute. In addition, the Act on Research Institutes provides for a closed catalogue of competences of the Scientific Council. In accordance with this provision, the Director of the Institute shall take decisions on all matters relating to the Institute, with the exception of matters falling within the scope of the Scientific Council. Well, that's the rule. the presumption of competence of the director, not the council. However, this latter provision will not apply to the Director of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. As the Minister stated, the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude introduces its own catalogue of tasks and responsibilities of the Institute's Director, as it is in other institutes appointed by its own law. The legislative amendment was adopted by the chairman of the Fedorowicz committee, but these amendments were not supported in the votes. Only one of the amendments was supported, which repaired the typographical error, the machine error. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law without amendments was not supported either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... [[Me.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u267	Minister, I'm just... Maybe from the spot. Are there also crimes of genocide committed by Ukrainians in the Eastern Kresów, Volyn, in the field of the Institute's activities? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Mind if I take a moment?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u268	Yeah, well, maybe the minister's on the spot. There you go. I can't hear you. Some kind of feedback.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u269	Excuse me, can you hear me? Good. Yes, of course it is, because we are dealing with war in all its aspects and the issue of Volyn is an integral part of the work. In addition to all this, please note that we are also engaged in rewarding the inhabitants of Volyn for helping Poles, so inevitably this context of Volyn sounded very strongly in our work to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u270	I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 915 and the report of the committee In print No 915 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Health Committee meeting was held yesterday. The subject of this meeting was the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws; print No 915. Purpose and subject of the bill. The most extensive changes were made to the Health Information System Act. A comprehensive regulation on the patient's online account has been included in the Act. The establishment allows the patient to have access to information about the healthcare provided and planned benefits collected in the medical information system and the amounts of public funds spent on financing the benefits provided to him, then on the right of health care and on the basis of that right held on a given day, and if the right to health care benefits is derived from the coverage of health insurance, also on the date of notification for health insurance and on the number of the NIP and REGON of the health insurance payer. Another issue is the medical certificate from the Social Insurance Fund in case of sickness and maternity, then information on the amount of the health insurance contribution paid and the amount of the refund for individual medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices issued to the recipient. Through an online account, you will also be able to make a statement that you have authorised another person to access medical records, consent or withdraw them to provide health information and consent or refuse to provide specific health services. The main purpose of this law, as I have already said, is computerisation, i.e. the creation of the possibility for patients and healthcare providers to carry out all activities through ICT systems. As regards legislative work, the government project entered the Sejm on 27 June 2018. The first reading of this project took place in the Health Committee at the sixty-seventh session of the Sejm. The Sejm then accepted the amendments in line with the Health Committee's position. In favour of the bill, 293 Members voted against, 132 against, 1 abstention. As regards the meeting of the Senate Committee on Health, a number of senators took the floor, expressing various doubts. The Minister also spoke. The issues of doubt have been clarified. The main concerns were the introduction of computers by the National Health Fund and the question of which computers will be financed, what competitions will be run and what rules. This was practically one of the most important topics of our discussion. Finally, the bill was passed at the committee meeting: there were 7 votes in favour and 2 against.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask that the Senator rapporteur brings forward to the High House the concerns of health professionals, particularly with regard to these centralised tenders. Were these issues raised at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u274	They were discussed at the committee meeting. The Minister spoke mostly about how the competitions were planned. The senators were saying that they had doubts about who was going to organize these tenders. Doubts were raised... It was asked why tenders were to be conducted by the NFZ, why they should be centralised. These doubts were presented by several senators. As far as the conclusions on these doubts are concerned, it was said that the NFZ, as a service provider and an entity that oversees all of this, has the best chance and the best opportunity here. The point is that computer prices are as low as possible. If there is a possibility for larger contracts, there will be a chance that doctors or hospitals who will be in charge of medical care will bear as little as possible. The main goal was not to have someone as a beneficiary here, but to benefit both doctors and patients who will be recipients.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: It's...]] You're welcome, Senator Wojtyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u276	I have a question for the Minister. In the course of the seym, the article was amended. 68 (3). What caused the change? Here the possibility of mail order sales is extended. In the original government proposal, this was only for medicinal products issued without a prescription from a doctor, and during the seymical work it was added from a prescription from a doctor. What were the arguments in favour of amending this article? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Mr. Marshal, may I come from the spot?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u277	We'd prefer it here. I'm sure there'll be a recording. This is all recording, Minister, so be careful what you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u278	Okay, Mr. Marshal, I'll be careful. Mr. Senator, of course, the change you're asking about has been added to your parliamentary work. However, it was not the subject of the government's own amendment. It was brought by parliamentarians. On this point there was a rather turbulent discussion in the course of the Parliament's work. This specific provision gives the possibility to mail-order the medicines available only from a medical prescription in the case of persons with disabilities. In the opinion of the government, this is a valid amendment. As you senators remember, a few months ago, from the same place, I had the opportunity to answer questions about the Act on Additional Rights for Persons with Disabilities. The intention of parliamentarians, which the government 100% supports the provision of this new method allowing access to medicinal products in this convenient form for persons with mail order disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u279	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u280	I would like to ask how this disability will be checked in the case of electronic form.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u281	I'll tell you what. This question was also raised during parliamentary work in the Sejm. This topic was also the subject of a meeting with representatives of the pharmacist government. We at the Ministry of Health are now working on amending the prescription regulation. This Regulation contains, inter alia, an annex setting out the special powers and provisions on the basis of which they are conferred. An idea that was born in the course of parliamentary work It does not come directly from these provisions, but other provisions provide for the possibility of giving, in that Regulation, a special code to be used by a doctor at the time of the prescription. The doctor, when dealing with a person with disabilities, will be able to mark this prescription with a special code so that he can be sure that the person has the powers necessary to exercise it. In the original text of the legislation, the only form was the statement, but we recognized it. I understand that this is the background of the senator's question. That additional security should be applied in order to avoid a situation in which... The point was not that only such a statement would be such a gateway, it would allow access to the convenient form of mail order sales.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u282	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u283	Minister, we have already changed the rules in the Senate room several times because of the inability of the entity to implement the IT system. They were different institutions. Here are ambitious plans, because it is mentioned on January 1st 2019 in the case of 2 functionalities of the patient's online account, and by September 30th 2019 in the case of the remaining 5 probably or 6 even. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Yes.]] The question is, will you be able to make it? Well, it's full functionality, which is in addition to hardware and software, it's also input data into it, etc. And that's the worst part. That's what I'm aware of. Are you sure you're gonna make it in time and we're not gonna have to update it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u284	Mr. Senator, that's a very good question. As the senator rightly pointed out, such difficulties often arise when implementing these IT systems. In colloquially speaking, here we're going for a sure thing, because the functionality that we're planning... Please note that this is defined as: up to a given day. This gives us the opportunity to make these functionalities available... [[Yeah, earlier.]] ...before the deadline. In the case of functionalities that are to be implemented by 1 January 2019, this will be ready in mid-October, so that we have at least 6 weeks for any amendments. And in the case of those functionalities that are planned to be introduced by September next year... I think that in the middle of next year they will already be available to Polish patients. [[Fingers crossed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u285	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering my questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law contains a number of important regulations, and I think that most of them are actually non-controversial. The patient's online account regulations sort out how it's all supposed to look. By the way, I'd like to bring us down a little bit. The case is not so much about the patient's online account as a place where medical information can be exchanged or, in general, relevant information... as a place to seek medical information about the patient. Rather, it will be such functionalities as rights, certificates, referrals, services rendered, etc. So these are the first steps regarding the patient's online account, but they are undoubtedly needed, and there is no doubt about it, this should be assessed positively. It also appears that an important element of this is that your rapporteur has mentioned it. A very important provision has been added here on the fact that, in addition to direct testing, as well as testing by means of distance communication, the physician may rule on the basis of medical records. And this is important, because it simply means that we are ordering the issue of making a diagnosis and appropriate judgment, including ruling on temporary incapacity for work, in situations that do not necessarily involve direct contact with the patient. Medical records are an important element on the basis of which information on the patient's condition can be obtained. Similarly, nurses and midwives are also entitled to similar privileges. And these are also very positive regulations. I think there's a lot of excitement about the possibility of mail ordering prescription drugs. This matter has indeed been very much discussed, I believe, for two reasons. First of all, because it doesn't seem like a good practice for this type of regulation, but revolutionary, you have to say, it was introduced on the basis of a parliamentary amendment, because it requires some preparation. It can be said to reassure you that, after the discussion in the Sejm, an amendment was made to this amendment and the possibility of selling prescription medicines by mail order only on the basis of an electronic prescription was reserved, and the electronic prescription, as you know, is only in the pilot phase. So I have to say that in such a spirit I spoke at the Health Committee meeting. I take it simply as a pilot in piloting, and I hope that it will be treated in this way also by those responsible for this, i.e. primarily by the Ministry of Health, but also by other entities, e.g. apothecary council. Because I think the pharmacy council has a lot to do here. There are many aspects and many dangers that can be associated with this. I think one group is the danger of a patient, and they're the most important. It's just that And here, Minister, by the way, I would like to argue with what you said about this disability check... This law states that verification of possession of a disability decision may be carried out on the basis of a declaration made by a person. I don't think the prescription regulation could repeal this provision because that provision is in the law. So I don't think what you're talking about is possible. But again, as if by calming the situation down, I'm going to say that I have the feeling that it's all going to be possible to sort things out after looking at how it works in this pilotage. I hope that those at least a few months, or actually a full year and a half, let's say, into the entry into force of the electronic prescription for general use, this is a time that needs to be well used to arrange this provision and create safeguards against possible dangers. The second danger, which must also be said because it was declared by a large number of stakeholders, especially the pharmacy, is the issue of some inequality in terms of this new solution for individual pharmacies and network pharmacies. Network pharmacies already run online stores for non-prescription drugs today and will certainly be well prepared to do so. Individual pharmacy will have a big problem with this, and this may be a kind of problem that should also be dealt with. At the committee meeting, I talked about it. And now I'm saying it too. It seems that it is necessary to ensure that this is done by the Ministry of Health, together with the pharmacy authority, to support individual drugstores in the ability to organise the acquisition of specific IT solutions, applications that will allow mail order sales. It seems that we simply need to make good use of the time in which this will work in a limited way. I think it's worth saying in this tribune that there are voices that people with disabilities would be more able to purchase medical devices as part of the sale of mail order rather than medicines. Medicines are not a first-needed product, for example, because the most frequently purchased medical devices for disabled patients are e.g. diapers, and they are large in volume, heavy, so the possibility of getting them online with delivery home, in short, without having to carry is a very good solution. And the last issue that aroused and controversial is the joint shopping in the Public Health Services Act. I would like to support this solution very strongly here. I believe that through the organisation of joint purchases, supervised, one can say briefly, by the National Health Fund, there is a chance to significantly reduce the pathologies for tenders organised by individual healthcare providers, especially by hospitals, individual hospitals. We know very well that the differences in prices obtained as a result of these tenders are unwarranted, often surprise and suspect that there is simply some pathology there. So that this law has the chance to significantly reduce this pathology, and thus to make hospitals more rationally possess their resources and simply some of them will not be in debt as they have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I do not wish to repeat these arguments, which you presented to Senator Radziwiłł, through respect for your time, but I must allow myself a general reflection. The current government camp began with governments under the motto of the liquidation of the NFZ. Right now, after less than three years, the NFZ is growing stronger. The NFZ is needed as an analytical organisation, as an organisation with the fullest data, but is the NFZ supposed to supervise And it's not written so clearly. The tender, I have doubts, because I experienced it on my own. In so far as tenders are normally organised by the founding bodies, e.g. Marshals' offices, concerning large things, such as electricity, water, garbage disposal, etc., came out well, but tenders for drugs were no longer good, because one chief of cardiology in the case of coronary disease preferred one drug, the other preferred another, and they received the same one. As head of the chest surgery clinic, I got stapleras of Chinese production that broke in my hands, and you had to use them 3 instead of firing one more decent, slightly more expensive as art, but definitely cheaper than those 3 spoiled ones. So it's at least a bumpy path. From the clinician's point of view, it is a withdrawal from the medical dogma that a doctor may issue a judgment based on a different than a personal examination of the patient. Maybe I'm old-fashioned. For me, it's unacceptable. Research, yes... I was just giving an example of the pleural pneumothorax at the committee meeting, which is not telemedically visible, but it is necessary to tap, listen or take an X-ray. Same with the abdominal cavity that many surgeons say is like canned. Until you open it, you won't see what's inside. And a patient of dyssimulant can deny that his stomach hurts by talking to a doctor 100 km away and at that time have a peritonitis that you can't see telemedically. A morphological examination can only give you a hint. This bill is a mishma. Resort, for unclear reasons for me, in the bill tried to put actually several solutions, from Annas to Caiaphas... Because as for the patient's online account, which we share Senator Czerwiński's doubts that 9 months to adapt information systems that must be so complicated I don't know if the senator read it. That they are to be available to the Homeland Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency... I have doubts whether the Homeland Security Agency is so interested in my health as to look into the system, and even more so the Intelligence Agency, I hope it is Polish. But these 9 months are a term, I'm afraid, quite optimistic, although there is a gate there, that on the way of announcements the minister may extend this period. So I'm afraid that's gonna happen. And such comments, which, as I said, I don't want to say it again because you mentioned a lot of them Senator Radziwiłł, there's a lot of them. However, after a meeting of the Health Committee, where stakeholders asked many questions to the Minister, we learned that yesterday was supposed to be a last chance meeting. Let's call it that. In which entities... especially manufacturers of medical devices wanted to fight some more amendments. As far as I know, the meeting took place, but the amendments Whether in the form of self-corrections or amendments tabled by one of the colleagues from the governing camp did not appear. That's why, realizing that when it comes to the part about the patient's online account, there's no turning back, whether we bring it in in nine months or 19, or 29... Maybe it doesn't matter that much. But because of the hybrid nature of this law, which contains references to some 6 or 7 laws, and from various fields of medicine, and the fundamental comments we are mentioning here, we cannot support it. Therefore, I request that it be rejected in this form, stating that if it is corrected, if it is presented in parallel to the referendum, In better shape, we can get back to the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Grodzki. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 930, and the report of the Commission In print No 930 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main purpose and subject of the Act is to reduce the risks posed by substitution measures and new psychoactive substances, commonly called boosters, and to protect citizens from dangerous products or substances for their health. Because recent cases of sudden death have increased following treatment with the so-called. boosters, there is a need to allow for faster response and such action, so that these substances can already be excluded from circulation and at the same time appropriate legal action, i.e. some penalties or confiscations. The Act modifies the definition of a new psychoactive substance, a psychotropic substance and an intoxicating agent, indicating in a general way what these substances are. At the same time, it shall establish an authorisation for the Minister for Health to establish by regulation a list of psychotropic substances by group, a list of narcotic drugs by group and an indication of the intoxicants of group IV-N authorised for animal treatment and a list of new psychoactive substances. Until now, it has been regulated by the law, and here is a proposal for this to be settled practically by the regulation. The Act includes new psychoactive substances similar to the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, it also tightens the criminal responsibility and penalizes the possession of a new psychoactive substance. Currently, psychotropic substances and narcotic drugs controlled are listed in Annexes 1 and 2 to the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction. The current law repeals these annexes and provides that appropriate lists setting out the catalogue of psychotropic substances, narcotic drugs and new psychoactive substances will be included in the regulation of the Minister for Health. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the inclusion of measures and substances in the regulation will allow for a more effective and faster protection of society against dangerous substances, since the amendment of the annexes to the law requires every amendment of the law, and the process of enforcing the law to effect is longer than the process of amending the regulation. All the senators who attended the committee's meeting expressed their positive views on 7 votes in favour of this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u292	I follow actions in this area of different governments, which tend to go precisely to post... And here it is agreed that the inventors of these measures are ahead of us if not a year, that the time of action that the senator here has spoken about is near. My question is: could other preventive measures, such as controlled purchases or provocations, not be used in order to prevent such measures from being placed on the market at all? Maybe there'd be a cell phone, some institution, obviously in the police, working quickly with the health services to prevent... Of course, the criminal will get ahead of it, but it would always be there to keep up with the newly discovered means. Has this possibility been studied? In the United States it is quite popular.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u293	This was not discussed. But that is why it is a desire to amend this law so that it is possible to react more quickly and to fight against new psychoactive measures. Because sometimes it's enough to change one element of a chemical compound, and there's already a new relationship, and it takes a whole bill to hunt it down. That's why there's just such a change in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Can I ask you another question?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I have such a question, of course, if this was the subject of the committee's deliberations, if not, I will ask the Minister. How it was translated... Because the fact that it should be in the annex, everyone was convinced. The Minister's regulation can be amended quite quickly, i.e. to capture this new psychoactive measure from the market. But so far there has been an opinion that only the law can contain this list of measures psychoactive substitutes, and in all proceedings it was not allowed to think that it might be in a regulation. I will develop this element in the discussion. Did this discussion take place at the committee meeting? And how the Ministry of Health explained its undoubted success in the fact that it will finally be done under the regulation, and not, as for years, by amending a law that takes a very long time?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u296	Indeed, these doubts arose during the committee meeting, but the Ministry said that there was a full guarantee that it could work this way, otherwise it would actually be impossible to react quickly. Other laws, from other ministries, protect against possible irregularities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Fighting boosters is a problem. Not from today. I was the chief inspector when I reported this problem to the Minister of Justice, back in 2008. Did you consider that there is such an article in the Penal Code? The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1, which says that who brings When making or placing on the market harmful substances, foodstuffs or other articles of general use or pharmaceutical products not complying with appropriate quality conditions, shall be punishable? Do we need to make any new changes to other laws, since the criminal code clearly states that if we place food on the market... Well, from this article, the one who introduces is being chased.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u299	Mr. Senator, this is a very good question, because we really shouldn't multiply those rules where we don't need to. However, the nature of criminal rules is that they can only be prosecuted if there is a connection, i.e. all conditions are met. And in the process of work... Here I must thank my fellow Members from the Ministry of Justice, especially those involved in the criminal law area who supported us, also taking advantage of their experience in combating drug abuse. And this regulation, which equals drug boosters, was just in consultation with the Ministry of Justice. By "comparable" I mean that the penalties are exactly the same as those for drugs. And... Yes? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u300	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u301	The penalties are not the same because here sanctions are foreseen for up to 3 years of imprisonment, and in the Penal Code in Article. 165 is six months to eight years old.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u302	But in the case of trade, he's up to 12 years old. [[Who brings danger to the lives or health of many people...]] But I'm saying... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 56 3 is replaced by the following: 1, there is a significant amount of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, new psychoactive substances or poppy straw, the perpetrator is subject to a fine and imprisonment from 2 to 12 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u303	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[One more thing.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u304	Minister, is it expected to strengthen the chemical inspector's personal strength? Because, as I know, this inspector has his office in Łódź and there are dozens of people there. And I don't think he can handle these tasks. At the moment he places on the market chemicals from abroad which are placed on the market on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Now these preparations and substances are gonna be a lot more, and they're gonna be more... Because they are changed almost from week to week, it is enough that one group of OHCH3 will join there and it is already another substance. Did you analyze... 'Cause I'm having second thoughts about whether this inspector can handle all of this in his current staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u305	Indeed, it is true that these are additional tasks. And the position of the Ministry of Health is always that, along with additional tasks, we should increase the expenditure, especially related to the acquisition of additional persons. And in the course of the arrangements still at the governmental stage, indeed, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, we have come to the conclusion that the chemical inspector will be strengthened by additional posts in connection with the additional obligations imposed by this law. However, I would like to draw attention to two more points. First of all, the fight against boosters will be dealt with, besides the inspector, also the chief health inspector... [[But he's on it now.]] ...so far, but now he's gonna get some extra tools here that will sort of make it easier for him, and the police. And as probably the senators have recently heard, there are more and more successes, more and more actions that are being carried out, especially now, during this holiday period, when the threat to... Because this is above all a threat to young people, because it is young people who are most often customers of drug dealers. And now this threat is the biggest. So here I calm down a little bit: there are additional resources for the inspector, and he is not acting alone, but he is working with the police and with the chief health inspector. I would also like to point out that a little bit changes the nature of defining these substances. Well, instead of defining specific substances, the regulation will describe groups of substances, so that the movement that the senator was talking about, which is just adding a carbon group or some other chain, will not be as simple as it has been so far. Our task, our aim in constructing these rules, was primarily to reduce this powerlessness, which attracted the authorities of the state in a confrontation with very dynamic manufacturers of boosters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u306	Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u307	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about success, it must be said that this bill, which brings out, is passed by this annex, which has been created by Parliament, in the hands of the Minister. But, Minister, tell us a secret... Because I remember talking to the Ministry of Justice, which was relentless, there was just a huge resistance, and it was said that the Constitutional Tribunal would immediately overthrow... [[Well, yeah.]] ...dispute, because in the Constitution it is written that only a law can introduce a restriction and punishment. Here we have it in the regulation, which is really the way it should always be. Because these substances are too fast modified to include legal matter. The generic definition is also very beneficial, because it enables us to operate widely. So if the Minister wanted to tell you a secret, how could he convince his colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, I'd be happy. And the second point: I want to ask you about Art. 2 of this amendment, which amends the State Sanitary Inspection Act. That's where they change... The therapist's certificate is changing. Is there, Minister, such thinking in the Ministry of Health... Because it is my constituents who deal with the problem of addiction, who ask if they think about it, for example. appoint a national addiction consultant to cover alcohol and drug issues. The amendment that appears in the Act amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection begins to touch this area. Has this been considered during the work on this novel, or are we not getting to the consultant's case yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u308	Thank you so much for that question. As far as the addiction consultant is concerned, there is no such decision at this moment, but it is indeed a very, very legitimate request. This law, in addition to what is most widely said, which is the penalization of turnover and possession of these psychoactive substances, also introduces what you were talking about by the senator, which is therapy for addicts. When it comes to the first question, that's how it is. We did... It's been almost three years of hard work on the Ministry of Justice. This work didn't start the day before yesterday. And convincing, argumenting. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes you have to tell yourself the obvious truth. Each of us, going to a store like this... Well, we know what a booster is. But all of a sudden it turns out that there are insanely far-reaching doubts and that we do not know. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong country solves such problems. It's a serious job, but we did it. After months or years of agreement, we were able to reach consensus with the Ministry of Justice. I would also like to point out that this is not a precedent. There are other provisions in which it refers to the Regulation in very similar cases. They concern e.g. protection of the environment or traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I would like to address the issue of boosters, because I have had experience in the fight against boosters since 2008, when the name "dopplers" appeared. I agree with Senator Majer here. As the chief health inspector at the time, I spoke to the Minister of Justice at the time and it turned out that this cannot be changed and refer to the regulation because it violates some EU legislation. Two years ago, with a group of senators, we made a statement about the boosters, including the Minister of Justice. The answer was very round. I no longer hoped that what the Minister came to the Senate with would happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm an intern. I've been fighting boosters, like I said, since 2008. In 2015, I was a district sanitary inspector and I encountered a direct fight with boosters. The result is the fact that right now on my turf I'm referring to the county station. There's no drug store. The voivodship hospital has reported 110 cases of drug use per month and is currently between 3 and 8 per month. You can fight this crime, but it is not as simple as you write in this bill, Minister. It's got to be multi-directional. I've come across all this. First of all, this requires cooperation with the health inspection of tax offices. After all, the stores that turn the boosters are registered and pay taxes. I reported it to the IRS and they told me about it in May. In March of the following year, they can tell me whether a given point of trade pays taxes and the turnover of what substances it is engaged in. There was no interest in cooperating with the health inspection. The co-operation with the police, according to my experience, wasn't interesting either. The police are focused on the results. They'd rather stop 5 bikers on the dirt road after a beer than chase after boosters, because here the effects are... It's just hard to say that someone uses boosters, buys them, trades them or turns them, it's hard to prove. This is a continuous process. I came across it, and the police seemed to want to be away from it. I had to push very hard for the police to cooperate here. And the D.A.'s office? I called the D.A.'s office. The authorities of the prosecutor's office most often considered this to be a low harm to the act. The most effective and this is the abecadle of health promotion and prevention activities is action on peer environments, so-called. Peers. I've been greatly helped by the fan environments. I must say that the peers' environments have worked out. Indeed, fans promoted the fight against boosters at sports matches, and I think getting to their peers directly influenced the idea that there was a danger of boosters at all. And the most important thing is the Catholic Church. I spoke to the Excellency, my bishop, asking to read at Mass, at every Mass a letter from the district health inspector. It turned out that their parents were unaware that their children could use boosters. From that time on, the media became interested in it, and it started to be publicized. In this way, these boosters have been eliminated and - Like I said. At the moment there is no store with boosters and these threats are much less. Of course, still in 2008, as chief health inspector, I spoke to the Minister of Justice of that time asking him to change his article. 168 of the Penal Code, so that it is not the authorities that prove that a substance is harmful to health, only as in the case of food, the one who turns these substances proves that it is not harmful to health. It's a simple thing. I don't understand why this can't be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing And it's been visible for some time now, this is the atmosphere when it comes to all resorts somehow related to boosters. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember how it was with boosters in 2009, in 2010. Well, then there was a loud closing action of shops with boosters, because these shops were over 220, 2 years earlier there were only 11 of them in Poland. Then the proposal of one of the parties and later of the Minister of Health, Minister Arłukowicz, was to introduce concessions for sales points awarded by local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, I looked into the archives yesterday, and you can read it all. I don't think it was accidental to make such proposals back then. Later, the atmosphere was that it was possible for the turnover of boosters to be carried out, as evidenced by the release of the chief health inspector, Minister Bilinski, for the fact that he also spent money on media programs to study substances in boosters. After all, this is the primary task of the Chief Health Officer, and he was fired for it. The same was true of many directors of scientific institutions where boosters were studied. Then the investigation showed no flaws. So far, I suspect it wasn't random. At that time, they simply allowed the power market to develop. That's what the data is for. The number of establishments increased until 2015 From 11 in 2011, to 224 in 2015 Now we have 92 outposts. All it takes is that there's an atmosphere of government and central institutions that deal with it, that it's evil. At the time, it was supported. About... [[Cell phone signal]] As far as 2011 is concerned, there were studies carried out by Global Drug Survey which showed that Poles are in the first place when it comes to consumption of boosters. It took a few years of such a policy when they didn't pay attention. In public health, in the promotion of health, prevention is known. 3 times more often our young citizens have consumed these substances than the Dutch citizens, who are considered to be a mecca when it comes to... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Pick up the phone. Maybe it's the wife.]] No, no, not the wife. These data... Aha, 7,000 300 people were poisoned in 2015 and 24 died. At the moment, this data is much better, because we have ninety-six points of commerce in boosters, trading in boosters and these poisons in boosters is much less. I think, Minister, that if there is no cooperation between all those bodies that I have spoken of, and if there is no health education, only the promotion of a healthy lifestyle... You guys are only writing about prevention here. Prevention concerns diseases. It's like someone doesn't know the definition of public health. You have to promote a healthy lifestyle all the time, because... [[Mr. Senator...]] Now, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, just a moment, if I could... may I, Mr. Marshal? [[Please, but to be honest, it's been ten minutes.]] Multi-directional actions must be carried out. I think the penitentiary, Minister, is not all. There is very little in this revision of the law about measures that will be spent on health promotion and prevention And this central prevention because it can only change the attitude of the young generation and their parents to boosters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u311	And this is a great time to bet a dot. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is undoubtedly a necessary bill. The Minister has gone a little overboard with this period of work for almost three years, because about a year or so... [[Yeah.]] ...persistent work on this bill. I remember when we started it at about this time of year in 2017. But she really is needed. I think what's extremely important is that this bill introduces a plus minus, so to speak, the principle that boosters will be treated as drugs. And that's what's important. With boosters, I think, the problem is that many people may even because of this popular name, because it is not used anywhere scientifically or in regulations It takes them so lightly, with a smile, but it turns out that they are substances that are often more dangerous than traditional drugs, because it is also an area of experimentation with chemistry, and it is simply extremely toxic. Therefore, I think, a little bit further on what Senator Wojtyła was talking about, that it is important not only to deal with the issue of criminalisation, prosecution, but also with the promotion of health and prevention. Prophylaxis too, Mr. Senator, because addiction and poisoning are also diseases. Yeah, that's the way it is. I remind you that the second operational goal in the National Health Programme is among others. prevention of addiction, including abnormal behaviour, etc. It is worth recalling, by the way, that this is the area for which certain resources are intended, and it is worth not to forget this. Of course, also through the various organizations mentioned by Senator Wojtyla And the church, and the Boy Scouts, and the school, and the places where children and young people are resting, etc... I'm sure it's as important as chasing. What is worth noting when it comes to the progress in this bill that we have ahead of us? First of all, the question of this success that Senator Majer mentioned... I keep my fingers crossed for success. But it must be said that it is not a matter of consent or lack of agreement by the Minister of Justice. This is a question connected, you can say, with the eternal legal principle of nulla poena sine lege, there is no blame without a law. And unfortunately, this law is not repealed. I predict that, unfortunately, there might be a problem with that. But maybe it won't be that trouble. More importantly, the more important thing in this law is how to treat definitions. There are a lot of changes in the dictionary here. It can be said that this group of boosters is defined slightly differently at the moment than before. This is more important than simply transferring this list to the regulation. At the moment, these psychotropic substances are new psychoactive substances, drugs, and so-called drugs. replacement measures are defined, so to speak, old definitions with additions on the basis of everything that similarly works or is similar. I'm speaking in simplistic terms here. And that's a fundamental change, because that means that these little chemical changes are moving parts of the molecules that don't matter to the effects of these substances, but that causes that the substance isn't the same substance that was listed anymore... This will no longer protect those producers or traders who turn these funds against punishment. That's why? Because it will mean that this substance, which is similar or similar to that, is still, you can say, banned. And in my opinion, this is the most important change in this law, which was possible thanks to this cooperation, which the Minister spoke about, with the Ministry of Justice, but also with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and, most importantly, with the Central Police Crime Laboratory. This direction is very high for me when it comes to this bill. That, in my opinion, is the most important thing. The result of this is at least that hope. The risk of such activities will be very high and the bandits who produce, market, offer them to children and young people will simply end up in prison. I think it's, as a matter of fact, the essence of this bill. And that's why I think she deserves support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u313	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since my predecessors, Senators, Senator Orzechowska, to a large extent, delivered me from the speech... Only a few general comments on the issues we are addressing. I would also like to point out that these were very valuable statements, which bring much into reality. It's a shame so few people are in the gym right now. In my opinion, the question of approach to boosters, psychoactive agents, how you look at this reality. As Senator Wojtyła said, about 10 years ago, we have been dealing with these measures for several years. It fully exposes the weakness of the rule of law. Indeed, as Minister Radziwiłł said, in law we have such a doctrine that only the statutory record allows someone to be convicted. Well, there's a constitutional record. Indeed, there were judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal which said that if something is not written in the law, and it must be described in very detail, it cannot be a basis for punishment. Here the Ministry has decided to proceed with the removal of this unfortunate annex from the law and to transfer it to the regulation. It happened, Dear State, several years after these boosters, these psychoactive agents appeared on the market. What does that say? In my opinion, this indicates that the country to be governed by the law is a very weak country and therefore does not have sufficient force to counteract the emerging evil as quickly and effectively as possible. Pay attention to the number and volume of laws produced by the Sejm and the Senate. ♪ We're making ♪ And that's the trend from about 2000, 2002 to the gigantic overregulation of reality. We take all possible issues from the government, we exclude them from the regulations and we say that we will regulate everything at the statutory level. The effect is that we produce a lot of laws. There are a lot of issues that I believe are over-regulated, and a large part of them should be resolved in the form of a statutory delegation, through government action. We have a state of law and a state of mistrust. In fact, we do not trust the government that is being set up by the parliamentary majority. If the parliamentary majority believes that it has a government, then in the rule of law in which the courts function and function, it should pass on to it by means of regulations not only the things we are talking about today, but also a number of other tasks. In ministries, departments work with professionals who can pick up possible threats and make changes much faster. In the meantime, this isn't happening. We have the law, but like Minister Radziwiłł, I fear for the fate of this regulation. For now, I'm happy, I'm crossed, and I hope that this will work, that no one will raise their hand on this regulation, which is really going to be effective in fighting something that we've been fighting for years. These methods of fighting, institutions... We were talking about the police, we were talking about the health inspection. I remember there were times when the IRS, the IRS, also got involved in the control of these psychoactive stores. Dear Sirs, in my time, when I was working in a commercial inspection, the provincial inspector in Katowice also carried out operational activities. Well, there was talk of buying a controlled one, and indeed the commercial inspection had all this in its hands. Except, Dear Lords, as we later brought these cases to court, it turned out that there was not enough evidence, there were not enough indications. Something that we thought was a dangerous product, in the court's judgment, was not such a product. That's what the Minister was talking about. It was not a dangerous product, a product for consumption, because it was a collector's product. Dear people, in legal terms, everyone was right, only the parent of a child who was losing his or her health was losing his or her life after consuming the boosters. Sometimes we feel that the legal standard that we are creating in this House will save reality. It won't save reality. It is often the case that the legal standard operates in our area, in the area of the legal abstract, and at the bottom there are things that we are dealing with. This law also changes, and it extends the tasks of municipal authorities to solve drug addiction problems. That's good, because there are certain elements that should happen in local governments. Aware of how local governments operate, I'm afraid that the requirement to have a municipal program to solve drug addiction... Although this is a statutory requirement, in 2005 or a few years later introduced, many municipalities still do not have it, they do not have Narco programmes, because they are considered, as for example. in rural communities in my territory that there is no problem. And this is the first element I want to draw the attention of the ministry. The second element is the issue of financing these programmes. These municipal programmes are the tasks of the local government itself. And as a result, there are fat cats and lean mice at local level in terms of addiction. These fat cats, they're called. alcoholics, because they have an alcoholic budget every year, and these skinny mice are drug programs. It's not there, Dear Sir, it's not there, it's not there, it's not there, it's not there, it's not there, it's not there, If the commune has something, it can pass it on. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very ambitious regulation, but the question is whether it will be implemented. Or, for example, It's not worth thinking about. You're the minister in the room, I'm not saying that now, you have to think, but in the future. To make certain things at the level of e.g. You want to connect the local government? Don't you want to set up joint drug prevention programmes for alcohol and drugs? It's impossible for now. It is also impossible because the Ministry of Health still looks at reality through the Polish Ministry prism. I would like to remind you that at the central level there are at least 2 if not 3 or so we could say, central institutions that are involved in drug prevention. There is a National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, there is a National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, and there is a National Centre for AIDS about these problems. And as long as at central level there is such a clear signal that this is not one problem of prevention of addiction, while at municipal level we will have alcoholic programs quite well equipped with finance and very poor drug programs, in which really little is happening. Financial resources and legal standards are two elements that actually function in the hands of the State. In order to require local authorities to act effectively in this respect, we must remember this. In my opinion, this regulation today is trying to break the current trend, and that is why I thank the Ministry of Health very much for preparing this material. I'm crossing my fingers so that no one dares to repeal this bill so that it actually acts. But I also encourage the Minister and the entire Ministry of Health to look at the problem of addiction in a more comprehensive and comprehensive way and to think in such a way. whether or not to combine alcohol issues with drug issues, because they are very close to me, especially at this local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-25-senat-64-2.u315	Thank you very much, Senator. Thus, we have exhausted the list of speakers. The discussion is closed. There haven't been any legislative proposals, have there? [[They were.]] Were they? [[No.]] [[No, not for that.]] No. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Oh, great, there's messages, and there's no Secretary Senator. Well, maybe I'll read them because I've fired my friends. The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the applications submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health and certain other laws, Senate print No 915, will take place tomorrow at 8.15 am in room 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws will take place tomorrow, i.e. July 26th, 8:30 in room 217. Meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration, Senate Printing No. 891, will take place tomorrow, 26 July 2018, at 8.20 p.m. in room No. 217. I'm gonna schedule a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 50]]
