ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u1	Resume session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We begin to consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. I would like to warmly welcome the representatives of the Polish Mathematical Society present at the meeting. Hello, Mr Jack Miękisz, Vice President of the Polish Mathematical Society. [[Applause]] Welcome to the former President of the Polish Mathematical Society, Mr Stefan Jackowski. [[Applause]] I warmly welcome the President of the Warsaw Branch of the Polish Mathematical Society, Ms Urszula Foryś. [[Applause]] Hello the director of the Jagiellonian University Institute of Mathematics, Mrs Halszka Gasinska-Here... [[Applause]] ...and vice president of the Krakow Branch of the Polish Mathematical Society, Mr. Mark Bird. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Kazimierz Wiatr and is included in print No 938, and that the report is in print No 938 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Mr. President of the Polish Mathematical Society! The year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, which we are celebrating, is linked to the many anniversaries of the 100th anniversary of the many detailed events that took place at that time. The 100th anniversary of instant elections to the Legislative Seym, the 100th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin, the 100th anniversary of the lawyer But this means that the Polish people, the society before 1918, worked intensively. Not only did it yearn for independence, it not only prepared for armed combat, but it built many structures, it did many works, of course, both formal and informal. And in this trend Polish science fits very well. At that time there were many great and outstanding. We adopted a resolution in this House on the anniversary of the death of Prof. Smoluchowski, who would have been awarded the Nobel Prize if he had not gone prematurely. He died in 1917 and worked closely with Einstein. Former Maria Skłodowska-Curie, 2-time Nobel Prize laureate: 1903 and 1911 Prof. Czochralski, who studied in 1916, discovered the phenomenon of silicon crystallization, on which all modern computer technology is based. There wouldn't be computers if it wasn't for Prof. Czochralski's discovery. With its own trend, the mathematicians' environments developed and functioned, with particular emphasis on the Lviv school, at the head, one can say, with her father Hugon Steinhaus, Stefan Banach and many others. It has to be said that what was happening at the time in Lviv was something amazing, really amazing. Banach math. I am very close to his work on the Fourier series or Maxwell equations, but most of all it is his most important study on Banach space, known worldwide, this axiomatic definition of space. But actually there was a huge group of these mathematicians. It is worth reading about this, about these extraordinary meetings in Skocka, where many Nobel Prizes were written on the table table, which was already gone in the morning, because they were simply cleaned up. There's no Nobel Prize in math. There are numerous anecdotes about why it is not there, but you will eventually find it on the Internet, I do not want to violate the importance of the House with anecdotes. Of course, the Lviv school is a lot of outstanding people. It is worth recalling here, for example, Stanisław Ulam, the co-creator of the hydrogen bomb, but also the one who developed the Monte Carlo method, which is the basis for the operation of CERN. All these particle calculations are Monte. Carlo, in the digit, and all over the world, these data are being distributed from CERN, where the Monte method is important. Carlo to dissipate the data. They were great here, but there was also a Warsaw school, Krakow, Vilnius, Poznan. There's a long list of the merits, the achievements of these people. A separate chapter was the difficult times of World War I and II, times of the Polish People's Republic, times of the Soviet Union, which also entered the territory of Lviv. The successes of Poznań mathematicians Rejewski, Różycki and Zygalski, who decoded the Enigma encryption machine system, are also well known. Everyone agrees that this made World War II a few years shorter, and we also know that some people are trying to take advantage of this success. I present to you today this resolution of the Senate, first of all, in order to remember this, because this is extremely important. It's worth knowing. It's worth remembering. Secondly, we have reason to be proud, to be joyful and to be proud, because these are great successes at the global level. Thirdly, I will speak such a youth language: it is worth fighting. Yes? Young and distinguished. We have such young people and it is worth encouraging them, also through such examples, so that they not only go abroad and look for success there, or not only focus on the multiplication of material goods, but also reach for the highest prizes in the world. We know that there are many successes after 1945. They are largely created abroad. We know that Poles are involved in the construction and construction of Patriot rockets, and in the construction of Boeing, also today on these flights to Mars, we build various rovers. That's why it's worth encouraging. However, here the question arises: how to do this, how to create conditions? We know that these universities are trying to build special career paths for the best, they are spending special funds to keep them here. As a country we also create legal solutions: the Polish Space Agency, yesterday we discussed the law about the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. Everyone gets something different, which is why it's important that there's a lot of different solutions. Of course, the salary of the staff is important, but we know that not only is it important. A young man comes to me and says that not only money, that other elements of the functioning of society are important, that is the research team, the university. That is why this resolution gives itself these three tasks: memory, pride and, as I said, encouragement to fight. It may be a little inelegant, but I address it especially to young people whose cultural code is a little different these days. But they communicate in a slightly different language. This is the time to build an information society and a knowledge-based economy, and at the same time there is such intellectual laziness in the social space, such an incentive to not think. We've got a lot of that in the media. These information and communication and information technologies have a role to play here, which is why reform and education and science and higher education are extremely important. We know that many mathematicians want this education to be at the right level from the first grade, especially when it comes to math. We remember a time when there was no math in high school. And we know that mathematics is not only needed in science. She cleans up thinking, builds up certain structures. As I have said many times about the need to build an educational atmosphere in Poland, so today I can say that there is a huge need to build an appropriate atmosphere for science, for a modern economy. Of course, it's hard... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know if I'm interrupting. It is difficult to build such a direct translation of science, especially basic science, into the economy, but this is possible. Things are changing. I remember a time when, as a young university employee, I applied for patents, and the rector wasn't thrilled with my work, especially with my various implementations. But that's changed, and the world is incredibly moving forward. I remember one of the biggest supercomputers in Poland. Well, 10 years ago it was 1.5 teraflopsa, today it's 2.5 petaflopsa. It's increased more than 2,000 times in less than 10 years, so this is amazing, unimaginable progress. Of course, the question arises as to how to teach at school and university how to build programs for outstanding people. Well, we know that since primary school such programs are and that these outstanding people can specially develop. We know the history of one PhD, the PhD of this most outstanding mathematician, Stefan Banach. Some say he couldn't do that doctorate today. Well, we believe he could, but it's not obvious. I've had the opportunity to be a member of such a doctoral commission... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] It was a PhD in computer science and at part of the secret meeting the promoter told me that he had trouble communicating with his PhD student. He was locked up in the space of his scientific work and, as it turns out, this PhD student's fiancée was kind of an interpreter. These are sometimes outstanding scientists. And that is why what ministers are presenting to us here, as well as what they are trying to do to the Sejm and the Senate, is intended to support all of this so that this research at the Nobel level is possible. Before I present this resolution, I must of course thank the Legislative Commission, thank the Polish Mathematical Society. The Year of Mathematics is already being prepared. The Polish Mathematicians' meeting is planned to take place in September... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. That noise really bothers you.]] ...and lectures of outstanding mathematicians from all over the world. An extremely interesting idea is the open-air design of Fractal for the century. It is also planned to celebrate the place where the Polish Mathematical Society was founded 100 years ago. There will be a number of scientific events, such as conferences, lectures, readings, addressed both to the world of science and to society as a whole, to schoolchildren. Therefore, I am pleased to be able to present to the High House a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishing the year 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. Allow me to read it now. The Senate of the Republic of Poland in recognition of the merits of Polish mathematicians for the world science, commemorating the extraordinary development of Polish mathematics after Poland regained its independence, and stressing the role of this field of science in the development of Polish society, establishes 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. On 2 April 1919 in the building of the Collegium Nowodworski University of Jagiellonian 16 persons, among others. Stefan Banach, Leon Chwistek, Antoni Hoborski, Franciszek Leja, Otto Nikodym, Alfred Rosenblatt, Jan Śleszyński, Antoni Wilk, Stanisław Zaremba and Kazimierz Żorawski founded a Mathematical Society in Krakow, later transformed into a Polish Mathematical Society. Another important event took place on 8 April 1919, when during the meeting of the government of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution on the establishment and launch of the Mining Academy in Krakow (now AGH). The first rector of the Mining Academy was Professor Antoni Hoborski, co-founder of the Society. The results of the work of the Lviv Mathematical School, among others, became known worldwide in the interwar period. creation of functional analysis. The co-founders of this school were Stefan Banach, one of the most outstanding Polish scholars, and Hugo Steinhaus, recognized as the father and patron of the mathematics used in Poland. The next outstanding representatives of this school are Stanisław Mazur, Władysław Orlicz, Juliusz Schauder, Stanisław Saks (two last murdered during the occupation), as well as Stanisław Ulam, who worked in the USA since 1939, co-founder of the hydrogen bomb, whose basic idea is the principle of Teller-Ulam configuration and Monte Carlo method, recognized as one of the most important algorithms of the 20th century (used to verify the correctness of experimental research using methods of probability accounting, among others. in CERN). World mathematical publicity also resulted in research of the Warsaw School of Mathematics, whose main representatives were Wacław Sierpiński, Zygmunt Janiszewski, Stefan Mazurkiewicz and Kazimierz Kuratowski. Later, Charles Borsuk and Samuel Eilenberg (since 1939 in the United States) were recognized as co-founders of topology. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Geometric and algebraic. At the same time, outstanding logics were associated with Lviv and Warsaw, among others. Alfred Tarski (since 1939 in the USA) and Jan Łukasiewicz. The results achieved in Cracow have also gained huge global rank. Stanisław Zaremba, co-founder of the International Mathematical Union, and later Tadeusz Ważewski, co-founder of the theory of topological methods in the study of differential equations and control theory. The university centres in Vilnius and Poznań also had significant achievements. The results achieved at the University of Stefan Batory in Vilnius by 1939. Antoni Zygmund and his disciple Józef Marcinkiewicz (murdered in Katyn at the age of 30) still impress the world. The first one is considered to be the father of the American school of harmonic analysis, the Chicago School of (hard) Analysis (her outstanding representatives are Paul Cohen, Elias Stein, Alberto Calderón, Charles Fefferman and Terence Tao, three of whom are the winners of the Fields Medal, the equivalent of the Nobel Prize in Mathematics). In turn Poznań mathematicians Marian Rejewski, Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski decoded the encrypting system of the German Enigma encoding machine, which according to many historians accelerated the end of World War II by a few years. All the names of Polish mathematicians of that period, who achieved scientific results of great importance, would form a very long list. After World War II, the results of the work of Polish mathematicians were highly appreciated, despite the maintained partial isolation of the Polish scientific community from the mainstream of world science. The establishment by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2019 The Year of Mathematics is the honoring of Polish mathematicians and their achievements, as well as the appreciation of the importance of this field of science in the development of societies. We hope that the Year of Mathematics will result in an even greater recognition of the Polish society for the role of science, especially mathematics, in the development of civilization and economy. Increased interest in mathematics and research and the development of math-related skills in scientific and professional activities are extremely important, especially in the age of the information society and the knowledge-based economy. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur, who is also the applicant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u4	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. This draft resolution, a golden period of Polish science, raises a fascinating subject. In this text it is clearly stated that actually in the five most important Polish cities under partitions, but then the Second Polish Republic, i.e. in Warsaw, Poznań, Lviv, Cracow and Vilnius, scientific communities were legit, actually in parallel, with very high achievements. You are an expert in the history of Polish science. Please tell me where in your opinion this phenomenon came from, that in Polish lands these research and development of mathematics actually occurred in parallel. Because you can't say there was one leading, dominant center. Right? There were outstanding scientists in various centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u5	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u6	I'm not gonna answer that straight. Our scientific successes have taken place many centuries before. We remember how, at the Council of Constance, Polish representatives of the Krakow Academy presented remarkable thoughts which, you can say, gave a new dimension to international relations. In many areas... We didn't say here, for example. Olszewski, about oxygen condensation. We also know that there were Polish rocket builders. There were a lot of these projects. Lviv mathematicians, but also from those places you mentioned, have been successful at the highest level in the world. Well, we're just a capable nation... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...and we can achieve our goals It's just the right thing to say. Some say math only requires a card and a pencil to work. We know that in Lviv's case they were tabletops. It seems as if you read about it or listened to these stories, that the phenomenon of Lviv was that it was a teamwork. They met at Skocka and discussed and argued. On the one hand, it was an open group. The students, PhD students, were involved. On the other hand, they talked to each other. And that's where the greatest ideas were born. I think this is a clue... But we also have many research teams in Poland today. Although parametric evaluation or bibliometric data do not always prefer teamwork, let us leave this for another discussion. Here's the teamwork, this atmosphere, this curiosity of life. I'm sure it worked. I have to say, when I teach as an academic teacher, I try to put a lot of emotion into it. And there's a moment when these young people have fire in their eyes. A teacher at school or an academic teacher has the task of releasing this wonderful energy. And I think in those places that you asked the senator about, something like that happened. We remember about this meeting in Krakow on Planta, when 2 young students discussed mathematical issues at the highest level in the world. In fact, there was no solution. Someone was interested. Well, different ways come to this size. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u8	Dear Senator, we are to establish 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. It reminds me a little of your previous term of office's resolution on the educational atmosphere. So I have a question for you. Are you expecting a year of Polish studies, biology? I would understand if it were to be a year of Polish math school, but you are proposing a Year of Mathematics here. What's the reason? just for such a resolution, for the establishment of the Year of Mathematics? Will the students learn better? Will Polish mathematics develop better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Professor, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Your Marshal's question has many threads... [[Voice from the room: One.]] ...some of them go far beyond the report that I am submitting on behalf of the Legislative Commission. I do not know if Mr. Marshal listened exactly to what I was talking about, namely that on 2 April 1919 Polish Mathematical Society was established and this date is an assumptuous date for such a resolution. I justified this resolution with a great need to honor memory, but also that we should be aware that we have a lot of grounds This is an example of the success of Polish mathematicians To be proud. Finally, the idea is to encourage young people to work in science. That is the point and purpose of this resolution. Mr. Marshal's proposal that this should be a year of math school is so confusing that we mentioned a few schools here, and we also know that some individual work has been carried out. Therefore, in agreement with the Polish Mathematical Society, I submitted a draft resolution which received the support of the Legislative Commission, for which I have already thanked and thanked again. We have made some modifications there in order to ensure that this resolution fulfils its task as best as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u11	Thank you very much, Professor. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask. Yes? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u12	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't ask such a question if you were proposing that it be, let's assume, a year of mathematical society or the Polish Mathematical Society. But we have here a proposal that the next year be the Year of Math, hence my question. I have one more question. Explain to me why there's an extensive section on the mining academy or the current Mining and Steel Academy. Do you think this university is particularly important for the development of Polish mathematics?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u13	Professor, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u14	Indeed, you can have such reflection. But here are the two areas you were talking about in your previous question. On the one hand, we try to show, celebrate, mark the successes of Polish mathematicians, people, and these people were concentrated in certain math schools, local schools. Senator Jackowski replaced them here. On the other hand, as I said, the situation is the formation of the Polish Mathematical Society, and the formation of this mathematical society in an important way involves the Jagiellonian University and the subsequent mining academy. They became a material basis on which the Polish Mathematical Society worked. And that, in my opinion, is the only reason these records are here. You can always wonder if that's a good thing or a bad thing. I must say that the Legislative Commission had no doubts in this area. If she did, I'd give it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u15	Thank you very much. You're a marshal again, aren't you? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u16	But I have doubts and I will make an amendment on this issue, because I do not see the justification for placing AGH in this resolution. I have one more question, Mr. Senator. In this resolution apart from Polish scientists, which of course is justified, because it is an anniversary The Polish Mathematical Society, you mention a whole range of American scientists, which shows that it was somehow Polish success. Do I understand that these works of American scientists were the success of Polish mathematicians? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u17	Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand you're asking about the Chicago School of (hard) Analysis section. It is true that Poles have repeatedly contributed enormously to the construction of certain knowledge bases, and then they have not always been remembered when announcing the results. I was talking about Smoluchowski here, and other people who... You could say that Ulam was the same. And in this paragraph of the resolution it is written that Antoni Zygmund and his disciple Marcinkiewicz are believed... that in particular Antoni Zygmund is considered to be the father of the American school of harmonic analysis. On the basis of his building, a school in Chicago was established, with three representatives winning the Nobel Prize equivalent. And we want to show it to be seen. I think it's perfectly justified here. It is worth remembering that in these world research teams were Poles, although not everyone and not always remembers them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u19	Thank you. Mr. Senator Stanisław Hare. Please. [[Voice from the hall: Joseph.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Dear guests! As the long and wide world exists the concept of Polish mathematics, you can meet it, traveling from Japan all over Asia, Russia, Europe, the United States, South America, and I think this observation is very supportive of what has been proposed here. Of course, the concept of the Year of Mathematics would mean something completely different. And the issue of Polish mathematics is really worth the sin, worth the decision we want to make here. There's no question about that. If you don't mind, sir, it's just a small remark. The power in mathematics was and is Russia. There is no doubt about it. But these basic, most important representatives of Russian mathematics generally began their scientific activities in Lviv. You have to say that when you're at Banach's scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u21	Thank you very much. Professor, do you have anything to add? [[It wasn't a question, so it's hard for me to answer anything.]] I see. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. Senator Constantine Radziwiłł wants to ask you a question? No? [[Voice from the room: For discussion...]] Oh, for discussion. Good. As I understand it, there are no more questions for the Senator rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I turn to you because my classmates are watching us, Professor Wind... I know that the Senate, colleagues, is to create or improve the law, but the Senate also has the task of making such resolutions. Therefore, I would like to say to Prof. Wojtek Mitkowski, Dean of AGH and my classmate that Fedor will support this resolution in its entirety. I remind my colleagues that in Krakow, right next to Wawel, there is a bench on which Professor Banach and Otto Nicodemus sit and talk about the math queen of science. And my speech is meant to serve this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't bother me, Senator. I would like to honor the memory of a great mathematician, Professor Anthony Bielak, our teacher, who raised many wonderful mathematicians. I still think she's the queen of science. Professor, a great honor to you and to all of you. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, he's gone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u23	Mr. Senator, as I understand it, you've already completed your speech, haven't you? [[Yes, I said thank you.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, there are guests in the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I would like to thank Professor Wind for this initiative. She shows that Poland's regaining independence was not only a political act, an act, well, bringing back to life Polish statehood, Poland as a separate, sovereign, independent and democratic, but it was also a space... Polish lands were a space in which various professional, scientific, political, social and economic environments flourished in parallel. And it was the collective sum of knowledge, experiences, reflections of these people that gave in 1918 this great work, which was the independence of Poland. And from this point of view, the contribution of outstanding Polish scientists, mathematicians, creators of mathematics schools is extremely significant. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I did not accidentally ask the professor a question about how suddenly, or in various centres, in different administrative systems, in different countries... Well, because Poznan was in the German partition, Vilnius and Warsaw In the Russian, Lviv and Krakow partition in the Australian-Hungarian partition. How did science come to such a high level in these centres? Well, I think that when it comes to the issue of Galicia, it was, among other things. due to the extraordinary wisdom of Galician political and social elites, which in Galician autonomy created a very good school system. First of all, the Jagiellonian University was the only university in Polish lands at which it was possible to teach in Polish. He attracted outstanding students from all Polish lands, not only from Galicia, but also from other partitions. And a system was created that was extremely fertile in terms of the education of future social, cultural and political elites. An excellent network of junior high schools was created. There are also opportunities for promotion. I will remind the High House that in 1910 30% of peasant sons were educated at the Jagiellonian University. Such a high coefficient even in the times of the Polish People's Republic, which, I say, decreed by the government that schools are to be opened to the working and peasant communities, was not achieved. After all, if we follow the achievements, but also the way of life and the origin of such outstanding professors as Stanisław Pigon, who from Komborni went into the world or other great Polish scientists, great patriots, we will have proof that this system in Galicia, this light and that it was placed on science in the times, well, the political existence of the Polish state, to educate future elites, future intelligence... It was all just very far-sighted and effective. And indirectly, it's working to this day. I would like to draw your attention to another detail. The resolution refers to the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, which was established at the time of Poland's regaining independence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.]] It is a very important university in the landscape of Polish science, European and world science. I would like to remind you of the action of 6 November 1939, i.e. the so-called. arrest of a group of Kraków professors under German occupation. There were also professors of the Mining and Steel Academy, including Edward Windakiewicz, the oldest of the professors arrested, who was almost 80 years old. Mathematicians who were important participants in the scientific debate and the creators of the work were also arrested in this action. This best shows that education of elites, education of intelligence has always aroused sharp reactions in opponents or invaders, because they realized that the better Polish intelligence will be, the more Polish scientists and representatives of Polish elites will be, the harder it will be for them to implement their political and political plans. Thank you very much. Thank you, Professor, for taking the trouble of preparing and carrying out this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! I am glad that we can make such a resolution today. I would very briefly like to justify that. Our historical resolutions have 2 objectives. They are definitely connected with the anniversary of the century of regaining independence by Poland. It is an anniversary during which we lean over history, over people who deserve to be honored and honored, because they fought for Poland and died for it. But it is also good if we also notice those who worked for her, who created not only the foundations of one field. - Math. - Mm-hmm. It's not one of the school subjects, it's something much more important, which I'm about to discuss. But also the foundation of all the other teachings that formed Poland after 1918. Our commemorative resolutions, of course, are intended to remind the beautiful pages of the history of wonderful people and to honor them, but since we are making these resolutions, there must also be a greater purpose for this too. The objective that relates to the present and the future. I think it should be mentioned very briefly, as I have already said, that mathematics is more than one of the school subjects. It's a special area. It is worth recalling that this is an ancient word that comes from Greek. The word "mathematics" comes from the verb manthánein, i.e. learning, learning, thinking. I think that we really need to realise that by pointing to the importance of mathematics both in education and in life, we simply propose that 2019 should be the year of logical thinking, wise learning from what we see and what we experience. That's what math is. Mathematics against those who look at it superficially are not bills. I don't know if I'm gonna tear down a point here. The mathematician's state can move. But I'm going to say that math could actually exist without numbers or almost without numbers. Mathematics is primarily the art of drawing logical conclusions from assumptions. It's like a foundation. Thus, by declaring 2019 the Year of Mathematics, perhaps this is lacking in this resolution. We're just declaring 2019 the year of reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a great idea to celebrate Polish mathematics this year. And there really are a lot of reasons. Those who are closer to math know what's going on, and popular news from the math world is also very convincing. The reason I allow myself to speak here is because of something very personal. Well, one of those who were mentioned in the four Lviv, Professor Kuratowski, was the chairman of the committee on my doctoral tract at the Mathematical Institute of the Polish Academy of Sciences. And I have to say, until today, I'm telling you how he had his doctoral exam. This is something that can be included in Lviv stories, because he invited me to a dairy bar and there with a very simple dish for almost an hour I was questioned. I remember that to this day. And I think it was probably the last doctoral cord that he presided at and participated in by Professor Kuratowski. The importance of mathematics is something that the whole nation should be proud of. On the wall of the University of Chicago, where the world's largest scientists are mentioned, who contributed to great changes, to the creation of new technologies, to a new look at the world, there are 3 Polish names. These are: Hoene-Wronski, whom we forget, and in fact it was the scientific father of the Lviv school, Banach and Copernicus. In fact, all three are mathematicians. That is why this is one of the most decisive reasons why today we can be proud that our nation has created a science of such great importance. I think there's a lot of scientific work going on at seminars, meetings, at home, in the privacy of the office. Which is still at this great global level. As for the definition of Polish mathematics, for the first time I met this in Japan in a decisive way. When I was there, I had a lecture at a seminar at the University of Osaka. When I arrived, it was 4:00 p.m. The man who invited me said he would go to his office for a while, and I should go to the hall where everyone meets before this lecture. I walked up to this room, opened the door, and there was a crowd of people. I went back, 'cause where did that math lecture come from? This man followed me and asked me why I wasn't coming in. I say, "No, there's probably a meeting there that doesn't involve this lecture." And he says, "Don't, come and see, see, because in Poland you won't experience it." What does Polish math mean? From the surrounding universities, not only from Osaka, because this is the whole complex of cities, more than 40 math professors came to my lecture, but they treated me as a representative of Polish mathematics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. And there you go, Senator Andrzej Bear. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you, Senator Wind, for preparing this very important and valuable resolution. There were voices here, and in questions, and later in the discussion which is taking place here, indicating that Polish science at the beginning of the 20th century, when we were still under partitions, and then we regained independence, developed very lushly and Polish scholars were at the forefront of world science. I would like to draw attention to one thing: we are talking today about outstanding mathematicians, but those mathematicians who mostly came from the Lviv math school grew up in a certain scientific atmosphere. This atmosphere was an atmosphere of interaction between people with very different scientific interests. I would like to draw attention to the Lviv-Warsaw philosophy school, founded by Kazimierz Twardowski, in which the logic functioned. One of them was Alfred Tarski. Alfred Tarski, a man who is mentioned in the four most outstanding logicians of all time. Aristotle, Gottlob Freg, Kurt Gödl, and Alfred Tarski as the most outstanding logic of all time. One of Tarski's greatest achievements was to create a semantic definition of truth. And he built a model theory. Since he emigrated from Poland at the beginning of the war, he has worked at Harvard University and Berkeley University since 1939. He was one of the most outstanding philosophers and mathematicians at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u31	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Zientarski. The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I therefore conclude that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Kazimierz Wiatr has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no votes against. Thank you very much. I declare half an hour off until 10:24 p.m. [[Message.]] And an announcement. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u32	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting for the draft resolution establishing 2019 will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 307. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 54 to 10 minutes 24]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u33	I'm extending the recess until 10.45. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 25 to 10 minutes 48]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the discussion of the 19th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. After the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting, which is in print No. 938 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Legislative Commission at its meeting did not support any of the amendments tabled in plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u35	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such questions? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the provisions of the draft, i.e. print No 938 X, followed by the adoption of the draft print No 938 S, in its entirety, by changes resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1, Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 26 for, 55 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 6]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 2, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 25 for, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 22 votes against, 56 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution establishing the year 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted 79, 1 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. [[Applause]] I ask Mr Jack Miękisz, Vice President of the Polish Mathematical Society, to approach the presidential table. [[Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan passes the resolution]] [[Applause]] We proceed to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Culture and Media and is included in print No 952, and that the report is published in print No 952 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report by the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. As the High Chamber knows perfectly well, in a few days we enter the year 2019. It is also a year of great anniversaries, among others. 20th anniversary of Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Pact, 30th anniversary of partially free elections to the Sejm, and free to the Senate of 4 June 1989. It is also the year in which the round four hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the adoption of the Lublin Union, the union which established the so-called Republic of both Nations. I say'so' because it was a politically, publicistically used concept, but formally, from a formal legal point of view, it was not the official name of the Polish-Lithuanian State, which was established on the basis of this Lublin Union. Therefore, the Committee on Culture and Media decided to take a resolution initiative in this area. The draft resolution was prepared and at its meeting on 29 September this year members of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously adopted the uniform text of the draft resolution. It is contained in print No 952, without the letter "S'. Then, on 24 October 2018, a meeting of the Legislative Commission was held which examined and discussed the draft. Some conclusions and conclusions were adopted during the work of the Legislative Commission, including: the structure of the body of the resolution has been changed, but not all the amendments discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Commission have been adopted by the committee. The project, which I am now privileged to recommend to you, is already a project adopted by the Legislative Commission. High Izbo, as to the fact that this is a major event not only for Poland, not only for Lithuania, but also for the whole of Central Europe and even Central and Eastern Europe, I do not need to convince anyone in this House. The Lublin Union has become part of the history of modern Europe. It was important for political history, for the history of European culture and civilization in modern times. As a result of the Lublin Union, a multinational, multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multicultural state was created, which was a phenomenon in relation to the then Europe, which at the turn of the 16th and 17th centuries was plunged into religious wars, such as the Reformation or other religious tensions that then appeared. Poland's way through this stage of Europe's history was, you can say, unique, especially in the sense that there were no conflicts with us in terms of religious, ethnic or cultural differences. I am speaking basically because Poland was, in the reality of then Europe, a country of tolerance, of discussion. Representatives of other religions sat, among others. among our predecessors, i.e. in the Senate of the First Republic, as well as in the benches of Members. High Izbo, I would not like to dwell here for too long on the importance of the Lublin Union, but it undoubtedly played an important role in the history of neighbouring countries such as Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, even though the Lithuanian Union was also a consequence of the situation of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, the Russian-Lithuanian war that was at that time, the threat posed by Ivan IV's policy of the Terrible, which gathered Russian lands and simply carried out intense warfare against Lithuania. Poland, of course, supported Lithuania in this war. High Izbo, without prolonging, I will familiarize you with the text of this resolution. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the aim of the applicants was not to enter into historical evaluations, public assessments or the whole historical discussion about whether it was an opportunity for Poland or a threat. Depending on the different historical schools or views of historians, there are different opinions on this subject. Our intention was to focus on the facts and present the phenomenon of this union, which is an exceptional achievement in the area of treaty law. In the history of European Treaty law, this is particularly the case. I propose that we focus on this and not enter into any political, historical or other assessments concerning the very fact of the union. The fact is that the country that was founded under the Union survived until 1792. As you know, the Constitution on 3 May changed the state system of the then Republic of Poland, so over 200 years this Polish-Lithuanian state in the formula of the Lublin Union was functioning. This is why it has become a permanent element of the traditions of many nations, many countries of today's Central and Central Eastern Europe. High Izbo, draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of 2019 Year of the Lublin Union in the 450th anniversary of its conclusion. On July 1, 1569 an agreement was reached between the states of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which was ratified by King Zygmunt II of August 4, 1569. As a result of this act of international law, the previous staff union between the Kingdom of the Crown of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, formed on the foundation of the Union in Blood of 1385 and the Union in Horodle of 1413, was transformed into a real union. As a result, the Federation State was often referred to as the Republic of the Both Nations. During the session of the General Seym in 1569, King Zygmunt II August transferred the hereditary rights of the Jagiellons to the Lithuanian throne to the Crown. As a result of the provisions of the Lublin Union, the joint monarch became king of Poland and a great Lithuanian prince. There were also crests, parliament, currency, foreign and defence policies, while separate offices and dignitys remained for both entities, having the same competence in both countries, as well as for the military and the judiciary. The Lublin Union is a wonderful witness to the wisdom and foresight of the elites of that time, which form a common powerful Federation state. A multi-national, multi-ethnic, multicultural and multi-religious social structure was created, which was characterised by tolerance and peaceful coexistence against the realities of Europe at the time. The Republic of both Nations has become a bridge between western and eastern Europe. The Lublin Union, this peaceful act of light political will and very advanced treaty and legal thought, contained in a spirit of mutual respect for peoples and cultures, good neighbourhood and non-aggressive coexistence, is a great legacy and contribution to the history of modern Europe. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, in recognition of the historical importance of the Lublin Union in the modern history of Europe, establishes 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union in its 450th anniversary. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u38	Thank you kindly. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask if he was present at the committee meeting... Was he invited there and was there any representative of the Lithuanian party, e.g. Lithuanian embassy representative? Did the Lithuanian party present any relation to this initiative or to the content of the resolution?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u39	Senator, there was no representative at the committee's meeting, no diplomat, as far as the countries accredited in Warsaw are concerned, nor was the position of the Lithuanian party presented. If I recall the discussion well, no one brought such an element into our procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u40	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u41	At the Seniors Convention, I suggested inviting Lithuanian and Ukrainian ambassadors to this meeting today. And I have a question for you in connection with the view that there was also a common coat of arms, parliament, currency, foreign and defence policy. Senator, as far as I know, the crest of Lithuania was the Pursuit, not the White Eagle, and the crest of Poland was not the Pursuit. Well, that's a lot of inaccuracies. There were no common crests. These crests were shown on the heraldic shield, which was common, but the crest of Lithuania was the Pursuit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u42	Mr. Marshal, thank you for that question. We had the opportunity to talk about it, and I tried to dispel the concerns of your marshal... [[You were supposed to explain it, and you didn't explain it. That's why you have my question. Please answer them.]] I therefore explain the following. Of course, you're right that it wasn't that the White Eagle became the coat of arms of Lithuania. Lithuania had its heraldic mark, it was a knight on a horse Litewska Pokój. And the crest was common in the sense that on one shield of the tea were both signs, and the Eagle the White, and the Pogoń of Lithuania. In 1658 St. Michał, who was a symbol of Russia, came because under the Hadziak Union of 1658 the Duchy of Russia was established, which was to exist on equal rights with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Crown of the Republic of Poland. This state piece in the formal sense existed until 1659, so very briefly. But these 3 crests were used, for example, in today's Ukraine or in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. During the insurgents of January's uprising, let us remember, on the coats of arms they had also the Eagle, and the Pursuit, and St. Michael. It was used in our national symbolism e.g. during the January Uprising. So that in literature this phrase is accepted, in literature it is said that there was a common crest on the principle of equality, none of these crests was dominant, it was not that the White Eagle was more important than the pursuit of Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u43	Thank you. I am delighted with the level of debate in this House. I think the Sejm can take an example of us. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Oh, once again Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u44	Mr Senator, in this resolution this is not specific, and from a political point of view there is awkwardness, serious awkwardness. If we're writing... We stress that there was a common Polish-Lithuanian state and we write that there was a common crest in a situation when Lithuania was still on the run. Don't you think it should be determined in the form of an autocorrection that you should report and point out that on the heraldic shield, etc.? Or it has to be crossed out to avoid ambiguity. I'm not gonna make that amendment. This is the question of you as the author.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I will answer you this question as follows. This phrase is used in literature: the crest was common, but not in the sense that it was uniform, the same for both countries. The phrase is used: the coat of arms was common. I don't see the need to define. If you follow the thought of your marshal, the Lithuanian side should question Polish textbooks, Polish historical books. This phrase is used and does not cause any controversy, at least I have never heard of it. There are other problems in our relationship, but precisely because such a phrase is used in historical literature or referring to that period... It's important. I would also like to add that if it were to be a discussion in a body with representatives of other countries, then it should also be a representative of Belarus, because, as we know, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania territorially covered not only the territory of the Lithuanian State today, but also the territory of the Belarusian State today, and partly the territory of the Russian Federation today. So that we should keep that in mind and remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u46	Once again, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u47	Mr. Senator, have you not heard of the interpretation in the historiography of the Lithuanian establishment of a common state, or union, which defines Jagiello as a traitor and the attitude towards the Polish-Lithuanian union as negative? This was the dominant thesis in pre-war Lithuanian historiography, which still has its supporters today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u48	Mr Marshal, as a historian and as a Polish politician, I can stress that you are right. Of course, such interpretations appear in Lithuanian literature. I don't want to tell you right now whether they're dominant or minority. This is not the time and place to discuss this. We are in the Polish Senate and we are adopting a resolution. I present a draft resolution which refers to the achievements of Polish history and Polish history. As one of the co-authors of the resolution, I tried to avoid any political and historical contexts in the discussion. As a historian, Mr Marshal knows very well that there are historians in Poland who believe that it was a disaster for Poland because we got involved in Eastern affairs and lost ethnic uniformity, which we did not have. But from today's perspective, that's the way it's gonna be. As a result of the Lithuanian Union, a multinational state was established in which notabene Poles constituted a minority. Ethnic Poles in the Republic of Poland Both Nations were after Lithuanian union 42%. Other 58% they were representatives of other nations. The Poles were the largest group, but not the dominant group, and this is a phenomenon of this country. Attractiveness of Polish culture and colonization of Russian elites, parts of Lithuanian elites, Belarusian or other environments, e.g. Germans... Well, it is a phenomenon of Polish culture, but we are already entering such a debate, I would say, more historical, not on the matter of this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u49	Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u50	Senator, this is an extremely important initiative. I am talking about this resolution, which is one of the most important initiatives of the Senate's resolution. Indeed, it is worth honoring every round anniversary of the establishment of a common Polish-Lithuanian state. Personally, I believe that these are 1 of the 5 most important dates in Poland's history. I also believe that this is a Senate initiative that will have an MRI. Not all initiatives have this MRI, and this one will definitely have it. I would like to appeal Not to ask, but to appeal, Mr. Marshal. To the senator for the autocorrection on this one word. Since, indeed, in 1569 the wisdom of both elites, Polish and Lithuanian, it was possible to establish a common state with a common foreign policy, a common defence policy, etc., etc., but the heraldic separation was preserved, it would be justified to delete the word "herb" here. Thank you very much. [[Common coat of arms.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator, like every senator, you have the right to make such an amendment. I can't do it in self-correction mode, because it would just be irregular. Any member of the Senate of the Lightest Republic can make an amendment and we can vote on it. I don't have a chance to make a ruling that we're gonna delete from the text... what kind of print is that? I want to be precise. ... Print No.952 S is one word, because I'm just going to go beyond the rule of law, and I'm going to suffer the consequences. The Senate would also be affected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u52	Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u53	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to add a thought to this. Of those three countries back then... That's what we're gonna call them. Poland, Lithuania and Russia, in principle Poland is the historical heir of the Lublin Union. And that would explain a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. One can say that in Poland the tradition of the Lublin Union is strong. After all, in many cities of Poland it is commemorated, there are streets, squares... In Polish historiography I agree with the senator, and I agree with Senator Klich. This is a very important date. Let me tell you one more thing. As for the kings of the Piast dynasty, please note that 2, 3 were ethnic Poles, so that it is also a phenomenon that we had a representative of the highest power... And then the royal authority had also a judicial dimension, and a legislative dimension, and an executive dimension of course. It's just that a certain phenomenon is what kind of country you're left with. build and how strong the European Union's heritage is, regardless of the contemporary assessments of historians from different countries... [[The Lublin Union.]] I'm sorry, the Lublin Union. ...walled, often dictated by current policies. However, in a cultural, social sense, this heritage is simply extraordinary. So I am very pleased that I have the honour of presenting here on behalf of the applicants and the committee a draft resolution that will somehow highlight this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u55	Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u56	Mr Senator, I raised this issue and tabled amendments at the committee meeting. I mean, it sounds like it's in this room, too. What arguments justified or justified not to include the significant words of the greatest Pole in history, St. John Paul II, who, appreciating the role of the Lublin Union, spoke significant words on one of the pilgrimages... [[Voice from the room: In the Seym.]] In the Seym, right? From the Lublin Union to the European Union? I asked that these words of this greatest Pole be included in the resolution. You argued that they shouldn't be there. Please quote this argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u57	I, first of all, Mr. Senator, will read a passage from St. John Paul II's memory and identity relating to this issue that we are currently discussing. Reaching the distant past, it can be said that this co-creation began already with the baptism of Poland, and especially with the Gniezno convention in 1000. When they were baptized from the neighbouring Czech Republic, the first rulers of Piast Poland formed a state structure in this place, which, despite its historical weaknesses, managed to withstand the pressure from the West. The Slavic tribes living in the lands west of Poland were under this pressure. In turn Poland was able to resist and became a bastion for various external pressures. We Poles, therefore, co-created Europe, participated in the development of the history of our continent, also defending it armedly. Just remember the battle of Legnica, where Poland stopped the Mongol invasion of Europe. What about the whole Teutonic matter that found her MRI at the Council of Constance? However, Poland's contribution was not exclusively military. On the cultural level, Poland has also contributed to the creation of Europe. Very often in this dimension it resembles merit... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] ...schools in Salamanca... [[...but that's not the answer to my question...]] ...especially the Spanish Dominican Francisca de Vitoria... [[...the Lublin Union.]] ...in the development of international law. Right. However, it must not be forgotten that much earlier Paul Włodkowic had preached the same principles as the foundation of organized coexistence between nations. It's not a sword conversion, it's a persuasion. Plus the ratio quam vis is a golden principle of the Jagiellonian University, which had great merit for European culture. At this university were lectured by outstanding scholars, such as: Mateusz from Krakow or Mikołaj Kopernik. It's hard not to recall one more historical fact here. At a time when Western Europe was plunged into religious wars after the Reformation, which was attempted to prevent by adopting the wrong principle of cuius regio, eius religion, the last of the Jagiellons, Zygmunt August, stated solemnly: "I am not the king of your consciences." Indeed, there were no religious wars in Poland. But there was a tendency towards agreements and union. On the one hand, in politics The union with Lithuania; on the other hand, in church life the Brest union, concluded at the end of the 16th century between the Catholic Church and the Christians of the Eastern rite. [[Mr. Marshal, that's not the answer to my question.]] [[Calm down, please. You'll be able to ask.]] [[I do not ask about the Lublin Union, but about the words of John Paul II.]] And now I'm answering your question specifically. The words of St. John Paul II fell in a certain context. In a certain context. [[Mr. Marshal, that's not the answer to my question.]] They fell when St. John Paul II had not yet had to critically say that Christian values had been cut out of the European Constitution in 2002. There was a whole discussion. Read your literature, your card statements. Ratzinger, then boss... [[Congregation...]] ...a congregation of faith... [[...Teaches of Faith.]] ...Congregation of the Doctrine of Faith, I'm sorry. Please read the statements of the other hierarchs and remember that under the treaties that were concluded after the death of St. John Paul II, there has been a change in the organisational formula of the European Union. The words referred to a particular moment... [[Okay...]] ...when Poland aspired to the European Union. Let us remind you that Poland... The first Church in Poland, and political elites in Poland supported Poland's entry into the European Union. Let us recall the whole discussion from 2002 to 2003... [[So these are the Pope's actual words...]] ...when the Church in Poland was clearly in favour of entering the European Union. And therefore, in my opinion, using these words in the context of the current political game in Poland would be using the authority of St. John Paul II for purposes to which he cannot respond, because he is simply dead. That's why I'm against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Chudowska. [[The Pope emphasized the role of the Lublin Union.]] [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] [[.......................................................................................]] Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, during the work of the Legislative Commission on this bill... [[A resolution.]] ...the arbitrage of the other senators could participate in the deliberations, submit their comments and discuss, so as to avoid situations like the one we have now?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u60	Absolutely. Each senator had information about committee meetings and could participate in them, make proposals and amendments. Besides, these amendments were considered. We've been sitting. That is what I was trying to say at the beginning of my speech when I presented the report on the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have to say that somehow I don't understand this intense debate around a case that seems quite obvious. And I would appeal to everyone to hold it down a little bit. Well, because we still have some important things to do, and I think, as a matter of principle, we generally agree. [[What's more important than discussing history?]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'm going to extend this minute a little bit, but very little, if I may. As it happens, my family is somehow involved in this matter, in a sense, coming from Lithuania... Then the Radziwills were a large family in the Crown. And one of my aunts, Barbara, lived in those days, was married... Well, she didn't live to see the Lublin Union anymore, but she was married to the king who ratified the agreement. And that's why I'm allowing myself to take the floor on this. Mr. Marshal, I quickly checked what a weed means, what is a Herb, and what synonyms are. And both one way and the other, all dictionaries confirm that this is something very similar or identical. I think it would be weird if we used some very complicated term instead of the word "herbs." The heraldic table or something like that. Not many people would understand that. Therefore, I would like to consider, Mr Marshal, the withdrawal of this proposal, especially since not elsewhere only in the simplest possible sources, which can be found immediately on the Internet with one push on the topic of the Lublin Union, is such graphics, an illustration signed: And this emblem looks like this. [[Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł presents the emblem of the Republic of Poland from his laptop since 1569.]] [[Beautiful.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, it's a uniform emblem with 2 Eagles and 2 Eagles on it. A chase in a chessboard like this. I don't think it's really worth arguing about. [[Equal to each other...]] Mr. Marshal, it's a waste of time. Let's make this resolution without declaring a break. Well, I don't think that's the most important thing... I don't know, but I think, as a matter of principle, we all agree. Thank you. And I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, for... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have submitted my speech to the minutes, but I would like to ask the applicant's representative the following. How to explain the validity of this resolution in two or three sentences to our voters Also in the context of our international relations with Lithuania, Ukraine, so that it is as well accepted as by the High House?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. I think that the very content of the draft resolution gives an answer because it highlights the importance and importance of this act for Europe as a whole. Not only for the history of Poland and neighbouring countries, but also for the whole of Europe. I think that this justification is included in the content of this project. The intention of the applicants was not to create a lecture that would describe the political situation at that time, the reasons for this union, the details. As you know, among others. Under the Union, the Russian lands were joined to the Crown, which changed the territorial proportions between the two countries. It could be a long time... It is also very extensive and very interesting historical literature on this subject, so that I encourage you to read. And in the modern sense, it is. it is a permanent part of the history of Europe of modern times, which concerns not only Central Europe, but also the whole of Europe. I think that's a pretty peaceful thing to defend. This union shows that various federal projects, the merging of different countries for common issues It's actually been working since the Middle Ages. They are a permanent part of Europe's history. The Polish contribution to this, as far as the Treaty is concerned, is not the issue of the Horodelian Union, which at that time was simply a sensational achievement of the legal thought. We have something to show for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u67	Because I heard an appeal here from the side... I would like to say that I believe that worshiping this year as the Year of the Lublin Union is a good thing. The Lublin Union was a very important element of our history. This, of course, is to be a resolution addressed also to our Lithuanian brothers. But if we take away their crest, we write that it was a common crest, we avoid this chase... This will result in a completely different response from the Senator's opinion on the Lithuanian side than this resolution should. That's why I object. Yesterday, with the senator on the subject... I have signaled this, but nothing has changed, and I have tabled an amendment and I will not withdraw this amendment. [[Mr. Senator Borusewicz, please let it go!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u68	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u69	I would like to refer to this, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: 2 hours off.]] [[It's a two-hour break.]] Well, Mr. Marshal, once again, I would like to state that it is correct to use the term "common coat of arms," because it was common. He was made up of two essential heraldic or image elements, because he presented the Lithuanian Pogoń, and no one questioned this in the draft resolution. And the White Eagle. And it was a common coat of arms. Just now, Senator Radziwiłł presented the High House, as this coat of arms, as the emblem of the Polish state looked like. So I don't see any element here that would affect our relationship, because we refer to the historical fact, not to the interpretation of political facts from the past. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u70	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We must avoid going into such seismicism as it was already in the 18th century. There's an idea behind the draft resolution. The resolution is to recall the good time of the Republic of Poland and what was important and important in this Union. Mr. Senator Jackowski, by introducing such a draft resolution to the Senate debate, we cannot avoid discussing the causes and consequences of this union. It's got to sound like it's coming out of this place. We need to realise some facts related to Polish-Lithuanian history. Relations have really started to tighten since the Union in Blood, that is, since 1385. The Union itself in Blood was signed by Poland and Lithuania when the first of the Jagiellonian dynasty, Władysław, was to join the throne of Poland for very prosaic reasons, namely because of the conflict which was in the east with the Teutonic Order. It was the uprising of Żmuda that caused the king of Poland to engage in the war, which he later called a great war with the Teutonic Order. And since then these relations have started to pick up pace, from a personal union, which is actually just a loose merger of two states with one ruler, to a real union with Lublin from 1569. What happened during this time that the vast part of the Lithuanian nobility was in favour of the Crown, but to sign this union? The reason was the regime of the Republic, which was built from the period of noble privileges, from privileges in Nieshava to the constitution of nihil novi and to the Crown Court. And it was this system that became so attractive to the elites. What was he leaning on? He was based on an amazing conglomerate of 3 systems in one system: monarchy, aristocracy and democracy. When the Sejm was gathering, the Senate, which was aristocratic... There was no one there to choose, no voivods, no chestlains, no royal ministers, etc. And they were appointed. The king was sitting with them. And then there was the House of Members. The House of Members has just been chosen. By who? By a nobleman in the Seyms. Yes, in the simplest way, the decision-making institutions in the Republic of Poland developed. Of course, the Lithuanian nobility looked at it and the privileges which were given to the Polish nobility aroused her jealousy, undoubtedly. And of course, the nobles of Poland, mainly the great families, were interested in the vast parts of the land which were in the rule of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. The conclusion of the union itself was the moment to prove the incredibly wise politics of the then King Zygmunt Augustus. He knew that he was the last of the family, that there would be no consequences after him, so he wanted to close with a buckle what his great-grandfather had started. I mean, he wanted to strengthen Polish-Lithuanian relations. Except that apart from the average nobility, apart from the Boyar races, there was an elite elite of Radziwillów. And here I call Santa Claus, the Black One, Radziwiłł, who for well-known reasons was opposed to this type of merger, and knew that after the death of Zygmunt Augustus, power over the Grand Duchy of Lithuania would fall to him. But the Lord God so directed his fate that he died, in tragic circumstances, after he smeared himself with silver to prevent sickness. The chronicles describe this terrible way in which this death occurred. And then time began to accelerate. In the background of all this we still have the Lithuanian-Russian war and a huge help from Poland for Lithuania We've set up almost 300 rot of armed forces. This cost the Sejm 2 million extra taxes were passed To help Lithuania. And then the Lithuanians saw that it was impossible without Poland. Many historians, literary experts today say that without the Polish language, the Lithuanian language would be rusticized, or rustic. Many say that if Poland had not been involved in Eastern politics in the 14th century, Lithuania would have been absorbed by the Teutonic Order. These are historical facts that we should approach fairly on both sides today. What exactly do we need? Well, we need an understanding. These relations during the end of the First World War, the 20th anniversary of the Interwar and the Second World War were very broken. Besides, there are many different things in Polish-Lithuanian relations today, which are controversial. As for the institutions themselves, this is why I briefly talked about how the system of the Noble Republic was shaped... He was an everement whose main paradigm was freedom. And a great attraction for the whole of Europe was that there is a country where you can build a system based on freedom, freedom of the citizen. Interesting thing is, it's all survived. Polish-Lithuanian relations; first the Union in Blood, then the Lublin Union More than 400 years. There is a quote about the contemporary European institutions... He is not critical, shows a certain historical perspective from a long perspective, from a long period: Tradition is an oak that has grown up for a thousand years. Don't let any of the little germs with the oak get in the way. We as Poles have something to brag about. The point now is to return to a good tradition of Polish-Lithuanian relations. I know that. It's been said here today. In fact, some part of the Lithuanian elite does not want to admit to the history of the Jagiellons and considers Władysław Jagiello to be the chief traitor, and the king wants only Giedymina. At the Lithuanian University of Vilnius, Stefan Batory is not described as King of Poland There's only his portrait hanging and his name. These are sad things for us. But there are some things that I would like to thank the Lithuanians for from this place. We recently celebrated the 11th of November, our important anniversary. In this connection, many films appeared on the Internet, which were such friendly gestures, also from the Lithuanians. And so on. Lithuanian railwaymen, drivers, played the Polish anthem with locomotive whistles It was touching. And these three crosses in Vilnius were highlighted in white and red. So let's start looking for what we have in common and put aside those things which, unfortunately, have affected Polish-Lithuanian relations very badly. I think that the future of Europe built on such a rational approach With respect for what was important in history, it is the future that we would like as Poles. Hail Zygmunt August! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You were right, Senator Gawel, recalling this great moment of the year 1569 as a consequence of the attractiveness of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland, based legally on these great values. "Freedom and equality of nobles" Guaranteed over the next decades, for more than 100 years through privileges, i.e. rights. Undoubtedly, this attractiveness led to a greater share of the nobility of Russian and Lithuanian families in the vast majority. But it must also be said, as Senator Gaweł rightly said, that especially in the territory of Lithuanian nobles was clear against King Zygmunt August, which versus the cause of the collapse of the general parliament in Lublin. In 1569 the king forced the families, so close to him at the same time in an emotional sense, to sit back to the table, and to force them to sign the Lublin Union. That blackmail was the incorporation of the southeast side. The Grand Duchy of Lithuania, including: Bracławski and Kiev Voivodship. And the Russian families were gratefully admitted to the Crown, becoming the first beneficiary of this very project of the Lublin Union. Under this influence, the session was resumed and the Lublin Union was finally signed. Why do I remind you of that? Well, that's because I'd like to say Although you don't have a Marshal Borusewicz That in some ways I agree with him and with what he said. Undoubtedly, the Lublin Union and the memory of the Lublin Union are now a lively subject of historical-political discussion, and I think that it needs to be written in detail. This accuracy is that the Lublin Union is a union on the way. Like Senator Gaweł said that there is a causal link between the blood union, then the horodel union and then the Lublin union, so it can be said that the Lublin Union does not close, ladies and gentlemen, dear. The Lublin Union, you can say, opens the way to our contemporary consciousness. And I propose that for the three minutes that I probably still have left to think about who we as Poles are today, whether we are in agreement and able to say to ourselves that we are a nation that wants to acknowledge that the Lublin Union was not a final act, but I was an act on the way. And where did that road end? If we were already looking for this place in the history of Poland, it would be May 3, 1791, so we would look for it in the Third-May Constitution, which ended the process, and that is exactly the tension that Marshal Borusewicz spoke about. A phenomenal project to unite many into one nation. Nation. That is, many in one nation. This is a famous call: Gente Ruthenus, Natione Polonus, which is from the origin of Rusin, from the nationality of a Pole This is the vision of the Lublin Union in this passage I was talking about, i.e. direct inclusion in the Crown of the Kingdom of the Polish voivodships of South-East Kresów as a vision of uniting into one nation, with great respect for the diversity of entities forming it within the noble state, whose values are governed by 2 values: equality and freedom. But we will not understand today's tensions arising from the understanding of the Lublin Union if we do not discover what the true intention and meaning of the Lublin Union was. Because today Lithuanian historians understand and know exactly, and hence my agreement, somewhat mysterious, with Marshal Borusewicz. The only question is: are we and we want to be heirs of the Lublin Union ending in the Constitution on 3 May 1791, or do we want to pretend that we are not heirs of it? And this resolution, whether it pleases or not, is on the one hand the result of the thinking of Poles: yes, we are heirs of this particular Lublin Union, which has outlined the path towards the creation of one Polish nation, respecting all the diversity within this nation that lies... And this peace road lasted from 1569 to 1791, to this act which we praise, and we do not reject it, where all the final signs of diversity between the Crown and Lithuania have been abolished. So whether we are the Poles who are heirs of this union, or whether we are still standing on the basis of hesitation, as are the powerful Lithuanian families, which caused the project of Zygmunt Augusta to collapse for a few weeks in 1569, which had to be forced, incorporated, part of the land of the South-East Kres... I'm talking about history, but you understand that I'm talking about the present. So where are we? Do we want to be aware of our history and our real model of the creation of a national community as a certain invitation, voluntary, but to create a nation, one? We, Poles Possibly 1/3 Poles, perhaps even much more Today we feel this direct connection with the legacy of the Eastern Kresów as a Polish heritage. Of course, it can cause tension, but we're not from eliminating tensions just because they are. We are from staying in Polishness That's the point. this resolution But at the same time as understanding the reality of the Lublin Union, which was not only a positive sign for us and for everyone around us. It was a positive sign for us, because it created the basis for the creation of a voluntary state phenomenon, which lasted until the end of the 18th century. And the finality of this phenomenon was to be such that the great Republic of one Polish nation, but many, many origins, would be created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u74	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Szymański made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to the senator, Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I therefore conclude that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, I would like to make a proposal to set a deadline for the committee to prepare an additional report at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u76	Thank you very much. A request has been made for the committee to set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist Doctors and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1043 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 2 provide that the only condition for disclosure of information about the patient after his death, despite his earlier opposition, is the need to protect the life and health of the loved one after the deceased patient. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 28 votes against, 48 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] I conclude that Amendments 1 and 2 have been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the resolution... [[And the motion...]] I'm filing for a bill without amendment. Who's in favour? [[And the second amendment?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damianka: We voted...]] [[We voted together.]] We are voting on my proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favor of this motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 55 votes against, 24 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments; Senate prints No 1048 A, 1048 B and 1048 C. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 1054 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Frost hasn't voted yet. Please state the results of the vote. 85 Senators voted in favour, 84 votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 13]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: a law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments; Senate print No 1053 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents, Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it introduces the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 1055 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 76 votes in favour, no votes against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1040 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 62 votes against, 25 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1057 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place. The Commission has examined the amendments tabled to the Law amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u78	Thank you very much. Does the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, want to speak yet? [[No.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions supported by the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 59 votes against, 26 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of committees request amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1051 A. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees, in which the committees request the adoption of this law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 60 for, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on special arrangements related to organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1052 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 61 votes against, 23 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on international agreements. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1039 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 75 for, 2 against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on International Contracts. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Aviation Law and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1050 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law and some other laws. We are back to discussing item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate print No 1056 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 5 include a provision adjusting in the appropriate place in the structure of the Act and take into account that it is the Treasury, not the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, that will equip the newly created foundation with assets whose value will constitute the founding fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted in favour, 87 votes against and one abstention. [[Voting No 22]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 aims to make public collections, not any collections, one of the sources of funding for the Foundation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 88 votes in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 seeks to ensure that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs can supplement the composition of the Council in the event of the resignation or death of a member of the Council or the cancellation of a member of the Board in connection with the existence of a mandatory appeal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 adds a provision which will enable the Minister responsible for the economy to dismiss a member of the Council who is the representative of that Minister also where there are no grounds for compulsory appeal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 88 votes in favour, no votes against, one abstention from the vote. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 has already been voted out. Amendment 6 takes account of the fact that, in the event of the liquidation of the Foundation, the State Treasury, not the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, will take over the property and obligations of the Foundation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 60 for, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes and considering this item as the item of the last agenda. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1038, and the report of the committee In print No 1038 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the committee's work... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're gonna take a little break, Mr. Senator.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, you may proceed.]] Thank you. I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission on the Law amending the Civil Code. It's a presidential bill, her project was filed by the president. The purpose of this law is to eliminate the unjustified preference of credit institutions in the calculation of interest on late interest. According to Art. 482 §1 of the Civil Code on late interest may be requested only from the moment of the claim, unless, after the backlog of the party, they have agreed to add outstanding interest on the debt amount. The Civil Code therefore provides for a ban on dating in advance to pay interest on late interest, i.e. to prohibit the use of so-called interest rates. Anatolysm. The purpose of the ban on anatolycism is to protect the debtor from excessive financial burden which would result in a delay in the performance of the cash benefit. The provisions of the Civil Code provide for 3 exceptions to the prohibition of anatomy. The first concerns a case where, after the creation of a percentage, the parties have agreed to capitalise on them. The second exception concerns the capital injections made after an outstanding interest claim has been brought. The third exception is subjective and refers to credit institutions. According to Art. 482 §2 of the Civil Code is allowed to collect interest on late interest due on long-term loans granted by credit institutions. In the case of the first 2 exceptions, interest shall be due and in the case of the third such provision shall already be permitted in the long-term loan agreement. The debtor of a credit institution under a long-term loan agreement is therefore not protected on general terms against overly restrictive interest for late payment and the credit institution itself is privileged in legal transactions in this respect. The presidential project raised no objections either in the Seym or in the Senate. The discussion was short. The Sejm adopted the law by the following votes: 420 Members voted in favour, no votes against, four Members abstained. The Legislative Commission adopted the law unanimously, unanimously. 7 votes in favour. Therefore, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, I request the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha, was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does the President's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr. Marshal, only in case of any questions. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the President's representative on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you. Would a government representative like to take the floor on this matter? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. I would like to inform you, for the sake of order, that the senators Mikołajczyk and Łuczak have presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on notariat. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1049 and the report of the committee In print No 1049 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u81	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2018 amending the Law on notariat. This law amends the provisions of the Law of 14 February 1991. The Law on notariat by repealing Chapter 5 of Chapter II, which includes provisions governing service by means of a notary, specifically Article. Article 102 and Article 102 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 103. As stressed in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the proposed amendment aims to eliminate provisions which are of little practical importance and which at the same time create an institution which is not compatible with the function of the notary in the Polish legal order. In fact, notarial service is not, and has never been, recorded on a serious scale due to the existence of alternative, effective mechanisms for the service of documents. According to the statistics collected by the General Council of Notarials in 2017, the notaries carried out 157 deliveries, which compared to the number of notaries In fact, more than 3.5 thousand and of their total notarial activities represent a small percentage. It is equally important that notarial service has no special legal force under Polish law, while the status of notary So a public trust person may suggest the opposite. In conclusion, the novel repeals Chapter 5, mentioned at the outset, entitled "Service of statements', as well as the provision of the article. 79 point 3, which includes the operation of service in the catalogue of notarial activities. The committee meeting took place on 18 December this year. The meeting was attended by Minister Łukasz Piebiak and President of the National Notarial Council Mariusz Białecki. Most senators were in favour, one senator abstained. The third reading at the Sejm meeting took place on 14 December and all Members voted in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u82	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have information that the Minister of Justice is already in the building, so maybe we should wait a moment. Three minutes off. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: One minute delay.]] We have received word that the Minister is still on his way, quite far away. Then we won't wait for him. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, we don't have...]] There's no government representative. Then I'll open the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The text of the act is contained in print No 1042, and the report of the committee In print No 1042 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u83	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 18 December considered an amendment to the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The amendment has 2 objectives. The first objective is to clarify the regulation of the selection of candidates for the post of Director in cultural institutions. The Act clarifies and indicates the tasks of the competition committee in order to improve the transparency of all competition procedures. The second objective is to include the institution of culture of the research institute in Opole as a research institute and transform it into the state institutions of culture of this Opole and... [[Voice from the room: Research Centre in Olsztyn...]] Sorry, it's about the Research Centre in Olsztyn and the Research Institute in Opole. There were no questions at the meeting regarding the clarification and clarification of the terms of the competition, this part was accepted with understanding and without any questions. As for the transformation of institutes, there were some questions about why, what is the reason that the Minister of Culture takes these institutes as if within the framework of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The main reason is that if both institutes were not within this framework and were not transformed, they would simply cease to be financed, and these are the only institutes that are involved in cultural research, we do not have more such institutes. Their work is very useful and supports the actions of many people of culture, hence the proposal for this transformation. As regards the vote at the committee meeting, I will say that the entire amendment tabled by the Ministry of Culture was adopted unanimously by all members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u84	At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Wanda Zwinogrodzka: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please. Minister, please... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Minister...]] [[Voice from the room: There's a question.]] Does the senator have a question for the minister? [[Yes, of course.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I have already been thanked.]] I'll have the Minister in the stands. [[And it's all right.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[She's super prepared.]] [[Voice from the room: Excellent.]] [[She's got a great setup...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the Silesian Institute in Opole. How will a change in the status of this facility affect the scope of its studies?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u87	In our assumptions... well, how to put it... the purpose of the solution we propose is to preserve the achievements and activities of the two institutions mentioned here. This is why we have proposed such a legislative solution, precisely to ensure continuity and institutional continuity. Of course, the institution What do we imagine? And the institute itself, too, because it happens in agreement with both institutes... Thanks to the financial support of the Ministry of Culture, the institution will develop better and thus gradually expand its activities or adapt it to current needs. The general assumption is that institutional continuity and normal institution development will be maintained simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u88	Who else? [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u89	So the name stays the same... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Wanda Zwinogrodzka: Yes...]] ...and the scope, which is Silesian Studies. That's what I'd call it in general. Also?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u91	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Since he's not here, thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Wanda Zwinogrodzka: Thank you, Mr Marshal. Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 1063. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply to the examination of this draft law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. This is the legislative initiative of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to the Act of 20 July 2018 on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. I would like to stress that this law aims at the statutory conversion as of 1 January 2019 of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership for owners of single-family homes and self-contained premises located in multi-family buildings, together with economic buildings, garages, other buildings or construction facilities enabling the proper and rational use of residential buildings. According to the provisions of the Act, the transformation was to be paid for. Persons who become landowners under the law will be required to pay charges for the acquisition of ownership rights in the form of an annual fee for 20 years. The annual conversion fee shall correspond to the annual conversion fee applicable on the date of conversion. The Law of 20 July 2018 also provides for the possibility to pay a fee once. It shall also specify the amount of the subsidy which the competent authority may grant in the event of the payment of a one-off levy for the conversion of the land owned by the Treasury. In the case of land owned by local government units, the granting of the increase and its amount will be decided either by the competent council or by the competent sejmik. I would like to stress here that, in connection with the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018 on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land, some local authorities have taken action to adopt resolutions or amend previous resolutions. I mean, for example. the adoption by the Council of the Capital City of Warsaw of a new resolution on discounts, which results in an excessive burden on residents entitled to convert the right of perpetual use into property. Those resolutions reduced the amount of the subsidy granted in the case of a fee for a given year or the payment of a one-off levy for the conversion of land to an amount which would often result in the need for eligible persons to bear significant or impossible to bear the cost of the conversion by their domestic budgets. The proposal therefore proposes the introduction of amendments to the Law of 20 July 2018 which will prevent this from happening: they will prevent local government practices. The project proposes 3 changes. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Law of 20 July 2018 provides that the conditions for granting discounts on the fee for a given year or one-off fee for the acquisition of ownership rights set out in the voivodeship order or the adoption of a council or a seymium will apply from 1 January of the year following that in which they were adopted and entered into force, unless the new conditions for granting discounts and interest rates are more favourable than the existing ones. A transitional provision is introduced in the draft law according to which the provisions of paragraph 1. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 Act of 20 July 2018 on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land as proposed in the draft will apply to resolutions of councils or seymists taken from 5 October 2018. In addition, the obligation for local government units to adapt the resolutions adopted so far to the provisions of the Article is introduced. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 as proposed in the draft. It's an art. 4. The draft shall also be amended. Article 2a 77 Law of 21 August 1997 on real estate management. According to this proposed provision, the update of the annual fee for the use of perpetual land property by the competent authority shall not be higher than the sum of increases or reductions in the prices of dwellings in the province concerned from the four quarters preceding the quarter in which the update was made, determined according to price developments for dwellings announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. According to the article. The above regulation will apply to matters relating to the updating of perpetual use charges initiated from 5 October 2018. The draft provides that the law will enter into force on the day following the date of publication. Such a term does not conflict, in my opinion, with the principles of a democratic rule of law, because the law does not introduce obligations for citizens. At the same time, the entry into force of the regulations is compatible with the public interest as soon as possible. In submitting this initiative to the High Senate, I would like to emphasise the very important role that this law plays. Well, the situation with which we have collided here in Warsaw, and the very serious turbulence associated with excessive reduction, i.e. increasing the burden for the citizen, not for the local government unit, caused that we responded very quickly to these actions, preparing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u93	At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Adam Gawada. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration 1048 has considered positively. Then there was the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which also considered the same project positively. At the meeting it turned out that you voted to direct this print no. 1048, that is, the Public Finance Act, in addition to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. There was also a positive opinion, as you can see from what you said yesterday. But the legislative initiative was born at this committee meeting. I have a question: how was she born? I'm not a member of the committee, so I'm asking you this legislative initiative? Who prepared it? Who introduced her? Who presented it? Because we don't know anything about this initiative. We would like to know who prepared the initiative, who presented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u95	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This is an initiative of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the senators who are members of this committee, and I present this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u97	I would like to ask which of the members of the committee then presented this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u99	At the committee meeting, this initiative was presented in the form of a bill presented. [[But by whom? I'm asking, by whom? Specifically. Well, we want to know who presented this initiative.]] Senator Andrzej Stanisławek and my humble person. [[Yes? Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u100	Are there any further questions? [[That's one more question...]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u101	That's one more question, then. I mean, this legislative process, because it's such an extraordinary mode. I'd like to know if you have any opinions on this bill. I mean, first of all, the government's opinion, because I'm curious if the Minister... Knowing the Minister and knowing his attitude toward such laws... Do you have any opinion? Some local associations, some minister, somebody What's the deal with this bill? [[The minister's on his way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u102	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! You know perfectly well that this is an initiative that was created as a result of the turmoil around excessive burdens for the inhabitants of Warsaw. We wanted no such situation in other local government units as well as in this city. This is a legislative initiative. As you well know, the legislative initiative will go to the Sejm. That's where the proper committees will lean over it. It will also come further if it is accepted by the Sejm to the Senate. Therefore, it is possible to direct different opinions, including local authorities' opinions, including experts' opinions, including the views of the parties concerned by the draft law in the course of the work on this law. Such opinions were not received at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u104	Are there any further questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. We have a government representative with us, Minister Arthur Soboń. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to say a few sentences. On 1 January 2019 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 Poles will become owners of their apartments and houses, as well as owners of land that are connected with this house or apartment. And this is an absolute breakthrough when it comes to ownership relations in Poland. This is a patronage, automatic patronage carried out on such a scale as we have not done in the Polish state so far. The idea is to give property to Poles, and to eliminate the institution of perpetual use when it comes to our homes and apartments. It is an institution that has, like, two significant injustices. Firstly, the amount of the fees depends on the value of the property and the value of the property is estimated by the experts. And that could mean that even with respect to the same property as a result of e.g. different types of appeals or no appeals may vary in the amount of the base of the fee. After 1 January 2019 we end with this injustice, which is a socially unacceptable amount of fees paid by perpetual users. Secondly, the injustice is that these fees are at different levels and because they are related, as I said, to the value of the property, as if their feature is that they can always be at different heights, they can be at different heights in the same city, in the same neighborhood, in different cities, or even, as I said, in relation to the same property. The system comprehensive idea of solving this issue is the automatic transformation of perpetual use into property, but completely unacceptable to us, I also express my opinion here, I think, of many Poles, especially the inhabitants of Warsaw. This is to use the moment at which the perpetual use ends on 1 January to deepen this injustice and in terms of the level of the rates, and in terms of the inequalities that are linked to the updating of these valuations. I would therefore like to thank the Senate for its initiative. It is certainly an initiative in this direction, which responds to the expectations of the proper implementation of the Law of Grace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u106	Wait a minute, Minister, 'cause there might be some questions for you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Is any of your senators reporting? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u107	I only have one quick question. Minister, I'm sure this bill won't hold, that this bill is simply a legal bill. I know the Minister, and I remember how it was at the work committee meeting, so I know that the Minister is aware that the Minister knows what is in this bill. My question, Minister, for today, because this bill will probably be coming back, is this: do you, the Ministry and you, as Minister, support this project that has been submitted at this moment in the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u109	As I understand the senator's intention, also through the way you ask, I regret to say, I must disappoint you and tell you that there has been too little time for me to present a comprehensive position in this regard. I just expressed my thanks to the senators for making such a legislative effort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u110	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Thank you, Minister. [[Beautiful.]] [[It's all clear.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek will be the first to speak. [[It's always worth being decent.]] [[Although it doesn't always pay off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration adopted this draft law from print no. 1048 without amendments. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances did the same thing without amendment. It was December 18, 18 and 19. During the procedure of this law from print no. 1048, i.e. the Act on the amendment of the Act on Public Finance and some other laws, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek submitted a formal application for the reference of the Act to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. So there's a ruse here, a doorway, something like that... We realized something was gonna happen. Because why was this sent back to the third committee, specifically to the national economy? Yeah, but you guys voted it out and formally everything's okay, so I don't have any comments. There's been a committee meeting. I watched the work on this committee last night. Of course, this law from print no. 1048, which is the one on finance, went through without a problem, without any comments, while the legislative initiative that was presented was born. As I saw, you introduced her to Senator Grzegorz Bierecki at the committee meeting. And I have heard here another statement from the rapporteur that Senator Bierecki presented, although you are not even a member of this committee, as I recall... Yeah, but you did. Everything is legal because the senator has the right to attend a committee meeting and has the right to present an initiative. So I don't have any comments here. And of course, the legislative initiative was born, and you took this initiative. She obviously goes beyond the scope of this Act 1048 that she is called, but is of course in accordance with the Senate Rules. You have appointed Senator Gazwada, who has become rapporteur. And right now, in accordance with the regulations, of course, we have a second reading. We're operating in this extraordinary mode, like... one of the senators here said, are we in danger of war, or is there a threat because of it that we have to act so quickly? This was the case: the quick initiative of Senator Stanisławek, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki presented this, the rapporteur told us at the moment... And in a moment, the bill will be passed. She'll still be in the Sejm and then you'll see what happens. I'm just gonna make a few comments I have, and I'm gonna go over the amendments I want to make right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister was present at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. I have noted here what the Minister said at this meeting regarding payment. It's about the previous bill we discussed. It was said that local governments have freedom of payment and so on. Of course, it's all right. And as to the level of the increase, that they have total freedom, that there are 2.5 million such persons, and of which about 2 million perpetual users on local government land, that is to say, 0.5 million cases would apply to the State Treasury land. And you said that today the municipalities are giving discounts, so it's nothing new for local governments. And you said we averaged the discounts. And that's what I'm getting at. So this is on average 60% in Poland. That's what it looks like today. We don't want to... Anyone who wants to get hurt doesn't get hurt. These are your statements. So you averaged that it's about 60% on a national scale. ... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: On the old bill. On the old bill.]] Yeah, yeah, of course, that's right. Now, one more remark about NIK's control. I'll read you one sentence, too. In fact, the State budget special grants granted to seniors to finance tasks contracted from the government in Chapter 70005 of the Land and real estate management did not allow the financing of all expenditure related to the management of the State Treasury's real estate, including the financing of estimates of the basis for changing the charges for the use of perpetual real estate. So it's not like they're just self-governments... Because these are the costs you were talking about, Minister: asset valuer, operatist, etc. It is known that by the end of December it must be presented, submitted, therefore the deadlines in this bill do not stick... Let's say that without order and composition it is. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this bill. I'm just going to talk to her a little bit more about what she said about those percentages, about the 98 percent increase in the city. You were talking about the plundering of residents, the excesses of Warsaw, etc. I don't know if I'm quoting your senator either by referring to this robbery. I see the senator doesn't just know banks, he knows everything. There is no doubt about that. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as for the law itself, this is a comparison of the prices of real estate, these land with different uses... And here we are dealing with the Real Estate Act, that's where we're making this change. And there are different prices when it comes to land properties with different destinations. Compared to average housing prices, there is no logical justification, and this cannot be compared. I'm saying this as an asset valuer: it's completely unheard of. Acting the bill backwards... You know why I'm talking about this. It is here on 5 October 2018, and so the act works backwards. Because the fact that the law restricts the laws of local governments does not give rise to any doubt. I therefore make an amendment to this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's two cases. As stated in the Act, one amendment concerns the Real Estate Management Act, and the other one concerns the latter law, which we adopted on 10 or 20 July. I can't remember exactly. As far as the amendment to the Real Estate Act is concerned, it is intended that these fees should not increase. Just like you. You said, it's about not being drastic. This is clearly stated in the bill. Maybe I'll quote it. In this Real Estate Management Act, this would be the case: If the updated annual fee exceeds at least twice the previous annual fee, the perpetual user shall pay an annual fee equivalent to twice the previous annual fee. The remaining amount is more than twice that of the previous fee and is divided into two equal parts, which increase the annual fee in the next two years. The annual fee in the third year of the update shall be equal to the amount resulting from this update. And here, ladies and gentlemen, is one self-correction. Where it is written twice I have introduced a half and a half times. So if there's fifty... well, one and a half times more, this bill will work and it will lower. These raises can't be higher. It is clear, clear, simple and there are no formal comments here. And the second point, the second amendment, of course, concerns what is being said out loud. You signaled that the City Council of Warsaw changed its resolution, introduced other percentages. No, 98% was previously, although this bonus was to be 60% etc., etc. As far as I know, the City Council of Warsaw has already adopted this resolution today and we have back the 98% Just like it was. I'm not discussing other cities because you've only given one example. I haven't heard that somewhere else in this mode, just like this, some office has made such changes in this case. Therefore, my amendment concerns this very law, which we adopted on 10 or 20 July. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? The point is to compensate for these increases. So there's no misunderstanding that the buildings on the neighboring sites or the building on one plot... that there'll be two kinds of discounts. So it's about making it even, not looting. That's the word I'm going to use for those residents who have land real estate in perpetual use on the State Treasury land. Because it's the same thing, it's the same thing you were talking about. Therefore, the amendment amends those discounts which are enshrined in the Act. There it was, you remember, 60%. First year, then 50, 40, 30, 20 and 10... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I'll finish this. I'll sign up again. And ending... Ladies and gentlemen, the top one... instead of 60%. In this amendment 98% is written. So here it would be even. So we will not rob these other residents in Poland, it is about them having the same discount as in the case of land in local governments. In turn lower height, 10% It stays, which means it would be as it was written in the bill. A size between 90 and 10% They've been spread out in proportion, so to speak. So that these amendments to the bill I wrote down. This solution would be obvious, simple, clear and legal. And what you've proposed, it's not gonna stand up for itself. I therefore propose that you consider and accept these amendments that I am proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u112	Thank you, Senator. Senator Augustine is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedural issues first. Everything can be done, but it's not all right. Such stretching is possible, but should not be allowed. What you did for the political games you wanted or wanted. 'Cause it didn't work out. The establishment of a serious state in the serious Senate, among the serious senators, should in no way take place. And that's a lesson in shame. That's the first one. The second thing is motive. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to go back to what was at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Very hard in there, Mr. Senator Florek, I reacted. Maybe you've been following this. For words about looting. Maybe someone's raking, thinking of their own benefits, but it doesn't happen in the local government. This doesn't happen in the local government! That's bullshit! The government, even if it raises any fees, does so on behalf of the residents, and the taxes it collects want to invest for them. And regardless of whether it concerns real estate tax or other tax components, such powers were given to local governments so that they could have instruments for carrying out their own tasks! That's what it's for! So saying now that local governments are looting their own community is a misunderstanding of the essence of self-government. Because self-government is a community of residents who share responsibility for the choice of priorities, for what is being implemented and for what money is needed, and that money can only come from people. Therefore, calling it looting is slander or total misunderstanding of the essence of the functioning of the self-government. I hear you want to relieve Senator Gazweda, as you said. to those who, as a result of the decision of the local authorities, would be overburdened and would eliminate the injustice that could arise as a result of the existing differences. At the committee's meeting, I already said "check" for these words, and already then I proposed amendments which compared the increases in the State Treasury land with those which you propose for local governments. So? And what did it turn out to be? Well, it turns out that you are not in favour of justice, by no means, you want to differentiate the amount of the bonus and, interestingly enough, up to the amount that you consider unfair in the case of Warsaw. Well, gentlemen of the Senators, applicants and Senators of the PiS, do you want an excessive burden on the State Treasury land? You want injustice in the case of the State Treasury land compared to what local governments can do? Although it was said that the voivode might make a different decision than the one in the bill, but since your intentions are pure, let's do it right away. Why do we say that when the council decides on its own in this regard, it is wrong, and how the voivode is going to make a positive decision in this regard, that is good? That is why I believe that if you have pure intentions, if you want citizens to benefit from maximum discounts, we should make it more consistent. Let us adopt the same rules of the game, regardless of who owns it, so that, as the Minister said, The benefits of this transformation were the same, the depropriation could be carried out on the same basis, without injustice, without undue burden on anyone just because the land owner is different. I'm asking you to. It would show that I was wrong to think that you wanted to play a political game with the help of this law, and that you really mean what was expressed here. In making such harsh judgments, I referred to the decisions of the senators who rejected my amendment at the committee meeting. But there is a time to correct this view, there is a time when it is possible to make a decision that is beneficial to the citizens, so that our country under your direction is not, as you say, a plunderer towards those who wish to benefit from this enmity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u114	Senator Klein will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already discussed enough about this law, although time was extremely short. We discussed it at 2 meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, probably also in the local government committee, etc., also here, so there is little new to the whole issue. Of course, it is unnecessary to process this law so short, because it was possible to simply work on those things that we are talking about here, in normal, calm ways, and so prepare a law so that it does not raise such doubts. But since it's the way it is, we just have to refer to the situation that Law and Justice puts us in, a little demagogically using the slogans that someone is trying to rob someone. I've prepared an amendment. She is in the spirit of the Senators Florek and Augustine speaking here. The idea is to actually introduce a level playing field regarding the possibility of acquitted residents, perpetual users who live on the territory of the State Treasury and municipalities. I do it like this... I presented this idea at the committee meeting. The Minister had doubts at the time, but I consulted our Legislative Office and it turned out that this could be done in this way. The starting point at the rates of fees that will be charged to perpetual users who are perpetual users on the State Treasury land will be the level of the discount that will result from the resolution of the municipal council. In this way, all, whether they are perpetual users of the State Treasury or municipalities, will have the same opportunities. I break it down in time. The one who decides that he or she will own himself and pay the fee in the first year of his life... in the first year of his conversion, which is next year, will receive the biggest discount. It will then gradually come to the conclusion of this proposal, which is already included in the existing Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of perpetual exploitation rights into property rights. I would like to point out one more thing because it is still missing in the general debate. I would like to say that a large part of the land in perpetual use has been transformed into property in Poland. This was mostly the case for those who owned the apartments and houses, as well as for some of the people who were users and had an economic activity. Since the 1990s, this process has been consistent with various turbulences. There were situations where the laws adopted were vetoed by the Constitutional Tribunal. Parliament itself amended these laws. In my opinion, the vast majority of perpetual users, at least those who had real estate related to housing, have transformed the right to perpetual use into property rights. Especially with regard to... Almost all the apartments and houses that were in this form of use of property on the Recovered Lands were in perpetual use... It's actually been turned into property. The biggest problem with transforming perpetual use into property rights is... It's basically not settled. That's what I asked at committee meetings. This is the part concerning persons engaged in economic activities or in real estate engaged in economic activities at all. It is such a situation that it is enough that someone has a shoe shop, tailor's or photographic plant on land that is in perpetual use, and can no longer transform it into property rights. I asked the minister at the committee meeting to introduce us to... The Minister said that they were working on it all the time, and they even consulted the European Union. I asked the Minister to give us in writing what work is being done in this area in order to actually do this part of the work. This is a huge number of cases on the Recovered Lands and probably in various other parts of Poland. There's a rhetoric here that's probably true, but only partially that it's finally giving full ownership to everyone. But if everything, then people who do business should also have the right to do so. I would expect the government, the minister, to present in a short time what action he is taking and what draft laws he is preparing to deal with this problem. The case has already been dealt with in part. There was a bill, but it was vetoed by the Constitutional Tribunal. It could be transformed. I'm talking about people doing business on a normal buy-out basis. This is a procedure that follows the Real Estate Act. Well, it's a pretty expensive operation, but some of the people who are perpetual users, in order to protect themselves from constantly changing the charges of this perpetual use, are the most common land of the State Treasury, made this decision and wanted to transform. Unfortunately, such decisions I'm talking about the Pomeranian voivodship. They were remoted by the voivodship. In other voivodships probably also, because it was probably a general instruction that there is no possibility to transform the right of perpetual use into property rights on general terms, i.e. on the basis of the right of redemption. This is incomprehensible. Using this rhetoric about this extraordinary justice applies only to one area, and it happens when you want to make a political hucpa out of it. Once again, at the end of my speech, I ask that the High House be presented in writing, in good time, with information on what the government is doing in this area, so that as soon as possible, it is possible to give an opportunity on similar terms, perhaps not as privileged, where this reduction is 98%. ... it also means that there is such a feeling that the government also thinks about those people who work hard and do business because they have rights like others. I'm making an amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Vice-Marshal Michael Seweryński: Thank you.]] The amendment, of course, concerns this law, i.e. the conversion of the right of perpetual use into property, in the part concerning housing. I'm gonna add one more thing, 'cause I've got a little more time. In some meetings, in committee meetings, it is heard that perpetual use is an invention of communion, that it is a decline after communion. Well, that's not true, because the formula of perpetual use in various Western European countries is valid, it works, it functions there is no problem. It's worth remembering. I'm not talking about it because I want to say this, to preserve perpetual use. No, it's just that such a formula of limited property rights in different countries works. It's easy to find out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u116	Senator Bierecki's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senators who took us a lot of time with their eloquent speeches You can see this good old school here. It is worth recalling how things were going. Well, we were dealing with electoral fraud, which Mr.Trzaskowski did in Warsaw. Before the election he promised the Warsaws a 98 percent discount, and immediately after the election he showed them Kozakiewicz's gesture and lowered it to 60%. Only the anger of the Warsaw people, the anger of the Warsaw people who called it... Mr. Senator was offended by the term "grabbing." If the senator had listened to what the Warsavians call it, you'd probably have more reason to be outraged. I will not quote these words, but it was certainly very strong and accurate words of what was done in Warsaw. This very visible action is a very visible action. From 98% to 60%... everyone saw it. It's hard to approve. It is difficult to approve, so I understand that the senators are no longer trying to defend this decision, from which Mr. Trzaskowski withdrew, but are trying to find reasons to criticize the good actions which the Senate is taking at the right time and at the right pace for this matter. The second thing that was part of this electoral fraud is the operation that has been prepared for several months to increase the amount of perpetual use fees. Well, the valuations had to be made during the election campaign. Yes? The Warsaw people didn't know it, they didn't know what the town hall was up to for them. And this operation led to the annual fee for the garage on Ochota, which amounted to PLN 134, increased or increased to PLN 770. The fee for a 50-meter apartment in Mokotów from 500 PLN is to rise to 1 thousand 100 PLN. It's supposed to be a raise. What effect does that have? Well, the effect is that this discount, this discount, is getting even more apparent. She's even more apparent. So on both sides the Warsawers were to be deceived. Can we accept and look at such actions calmly? No. The senators heard the scream of the Warsaws. There was a lot of yelling today at the town council meeting. To the point that... until the city guard had to intervene in this meeting. That's what the media is reporting. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] We have heard and prepared a regulation that will not only reverse the effects of these horrendous several hundred percent increases in fees, but will also allow people to benefit from the benefit of the bill which we adopted in July, believing in the good will of local governments, believing that no one would want to deceive people. Well, you can say that we're disappointed, and it's also a disappointment that results from this action. So please don't let Senator Florek look for any other reason than the need for urgent intervention. After all, this bill and these changes we are talking about are due to enter into force from 1 January, and today is 20 December. Those who say we have a lot of time, I think they have some other calendar, use a different calendar. This bill is needed and should be adopted urgently. I believe that the Senate will adopt this law at this meeting and that this law will be welcomed not only by the Warsaw people, but also by all holders of this perpetual right of use in our country. In many places, in many towns, also in Biała Podlaski, which is the capital of my constituency, local governments behaved very well. They didn't play with the residents, they didn't cheat. In White Podlaskie, ladies and gentlemen, this bonus is 99%. Glory to such a self-government. Glory be to such a council. Finally, in the final part of my speech, I will refer to the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment is to align the amount of the subsidy, which is offered to the land in the State Treasury authority, with what is in local governments. Well, I understand that this is your purely propaganda response, that you want to respond somehow to this awkward situation that your President of Warsaw has prepared for you. And to what level are we supposed to equalize that? Up to 99% Like in White Podlaskie? Up to 98% How is Warsaw from now on? Is up to 60% Like in Wroclaw? [[To a level like...]] To what level is that? To what level is that? And if the Senators of the Civic Platform are determined to enter into the scope of regulations, which are also excluded by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments, within the scope of regulations which are at the disposal of local governments to decide on the finances of local governments, on the resolutions that local governments may adopt themselves, if they wish to include it in the bill, then let them attempt to do so. What I'm trying to say is that this is, in my opinion, a dramatic attempt to distract from the point of view of the problem. The point of the problem has been addressed in the proposed act and I propose that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u118	Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday we held half the debate on this bill, although at another point, as if inadequate, but it had already taken place. And yesterday I appealed not to do this thieving trick that it was a thief screaming to catch a thief to distract attention from his guilt. As you can see, it did not work at all, because today we are dealing with an attempt to distract, it is continued. Debate on the procedure, submission of amendments, etc. I see this clearly as an attempt to divert attention from what we do. One of the opposition senators said that this law somehow restricts the local government and hits the local government in general. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Self-government is a community of residents living in one area. And it was not the community of Warsaw that made decisions which are the subject of this law, this regulation, only people who simply deceived voters, promised pears on the willow... [[Who?]] ...not only in this case, but in many others, they were tricked into gaining power, and immediately after that... [[But what trick?]] ...they found themselves in the right place, making decisions that are completely contrary to what was said during the campaign. Well, that's the truth. [[Conspiracy.]] I think that in all of this are not the most important of these rates, it is not the most important amount of discounts or rents for perpetual use, but the most important thing is this fraud. And I think right now we're dealing with an attempt to talk about this, to shift the burden of discussion to something completely different. [[Right now, yes.]] This is, unfortunately, something that I am very sorry to see in your statements, because... by appealing once again to speak a little quieter from this side, which is simply guilty... It should simply be noted that this law is not so much an attempt to restore adequate fees and rents as it is, above all, an attempt to restore confidence in the state and public authority. Because, ladies and gentlemen, citizens often look at those who make decisions in one group. The fact that politicians have such bad ratings in Poland, politicians of all options, is the result of just the kind of action we have experienced in the media. It's horrible, it's just not allowed. This law is primarily intended to restore trust, which is, in my opinion, the most important thing in this law. The point is that it's impossible to have the kind of scout we've been dealing with lately. I believe that this is the most important thing and that is why I will support this law, this project, which, of course, can be further improved. Because this time the Senate doesn't accept the bill, it just accepts the project. The work on this project will still take place in the Sejm, there will still be possible amendments, and it will be possible, if necessary, to do so. I would like to point out that the fact that today the Warsaw Council in haste reversed its decision a few days ago, is among others. the result of the work we're doing here. Of course, there was pressure from the Warsaws, there was pressure from the media, but also our work shows that the Senate does not sleep, that we are simply watching it and will not allow not only this deception which was attempted here, but also many others, which, as all points out, are preparing themselves. [[Kaziu, you're gonna answer that, right?]] [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u120	You have a voice, Senator Klein. The second performance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u121	That's right, Mr. Marshal, second appearance of 5 minutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Radziwiłł an hour ago, perhaps a little more, spoke on the occasion of our resolution about the anniversary of the signing of the Lublin Union, among others. about the merits of his family, which in the past deserved so much, also in connection with this great historical event, his family and aunts, as he said, who deserved in various matters in the past of Poland, and today he uses a language which, I think, is not worthy of a family of such great merits which he spoke about here. When he talks about election fraud... [[Mr. Senator, very rude.]] ...or a ruse at the Warsaw elections... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Local government.]] ...self-government... Well, nobody said anything like that, that there was some trick or deception here, and these elections, like all others in Poland, are supervised and by the State Election Commission, and by courts, etc. So, as far as I know, I am convinced, in Warsaw everyone, and the president, and the councillors, came to power democratically, were elected by the citizens. Paradoxically, it was also in Warsaw that it was adopted with certain perturbations, it is true, a resolution about such a high rabat for perpetual use. And all our comments, by some spoken louder, more harshly and decisively, are not about taking anything away from anyone, but about treating everyone alike. [[Applause]] Resistance is on your side, not ours. We in our amendments and in our voices in the discussion only say that if in Warsaw, in Łódź, in Łeba, in Lębork, in Gdansk the right to use perpetual real estate and the commune decides to rob, then we suggest that a similar discount should apply to all properties of the State Treasury. Nothing more, simple thing, seems definitely fair. That's all it is. So this is an attempt to manipulate everything we say here. This bill will continue to work for a long time, probably in the Seym, and in the Senate. That is why I say that such haste in the case of this law, in connection with this act is simply pointless. If we were to work on it calmly in January, the effect would be exactly the same, because today we are only talking about a project that is a senator's initiative. He still has to go through the whole procedure in the Sejm, come back to us, he can come back with the amendments, and he's just gonna get to the president. So the rush has only a political and demagogic context. That's what this is all about. You put us in a situation like this so we can talk a little harder sometimes, some of us might talk like that. When I was performing, I was talking about this previous speech, and I was talking about this context of transforming other cases of perpetual use into property rights. Then I got a call from a real estate worker, a real estate manager in one of the Old Towns in Pomeranian Voivodeship, and what did he say? He said that trying to transform perpetual exploitation rights into property of people who occupy the land for economic purposes, natural persons... The governor did not agree to this transformation, because it is with the consent of the voivode that it must be done, although the whole operation is performed by the elders. And what argument did he use? That it would be to the detriment of the Treasury. And it would be a buy-out at the price that results from the expert's valuation. So tell me, see where the good intentions are in all this. That's all this is about. Just out of the thing that we all want to do to get her to serve our citizens well, we're doing a game that's not worth it, because the satisfaction of this operation is just going to be small. I say again: the vast majority of people in Poland who converted the right of perpetual use into property rights did so on general terms, paying in the past various, much higher amounts. These people today may have a sense of injustice, too. Please pay attention to that. Yes? The less noise in this case, less talk, less argument, the better it would serve the cause. It is better to take care of the next things that need to be done in this area, so that this is better served by everything that we are talking about here today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u122	You have a voice, Senator Florek. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Second performance. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen Senators, you have the floor of Senator Florek. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u123	Yes, sir. So the marshal won't take a minute of my time... Thank you. Senator Radziwill. The Lord says: by deception they have gained power, deceit... Come on, Mr. Senator... [[And that's from a family like this?]] [[What family?]] From a family like this, Mr. Senator, our sessions are being recorded, so please... Well, I'm not gonna lecture you, but pay attention to what you're saying. If you know anything about fraud, that's what the D.A.'s for, keep him informed, tell him, not like this... Today we are clear: we are checking, checking whether 98% ...Let's leave 60% then. ... Here I gave an example of two neighbors living next door to each other: one has a property on the basis of the Treasury, the other has a local government. And what, one has to have 60% Discounts and the other 98% ? Let's make it even. Today, as I say, we're checking to see if you want to be fair about it. Senator Bierecki, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. It does not know the rules of functioning of local governments, procedures. I'm sure you've never been in government before. It's hard for me to say what you're saying because it's really... It's too bad about that. This project, of course, will not defend itself, it is flawed and, in my opinion, unconstitutional. And, ladies and gentlemen, it will be time for you to know. The province is, in my opinion, limited by the law for residential land and there the maximum increase may be 60%. Don't tell me he can do more because it's impossible. Senator Bierecki mentioned Warsaw and this Okay, okay, okay, The electoral system. Well, I'm sure failure hurts a little. The election's been lost, so I'm trying to say... Well, Mr. Senator, 500 PLN for the first child, Gowin Minister of National Defense... That's cheating. You've dug over 90 graves, yes, you've violated... And what is that? Isn't that cheating? You want to explain something to me here, lecture me, Senator? Really, it doesn't make any sense. I know you're disappointed in this situation. The fact that you give examples that there were 500 zlotys out there, and now there will be 1 thousand 100 and so on... Well, of course, it's gonna be the same for the Treasury. I've been quoting how much it costs, what it looks like. I'm not gonna tell you about the procedure because I know the procedure because I've done thousands of prices and I know how to do it, Senator. So it's too bad I'm referring to it. I just want to talk about my amendments so that you don't have any doubts about what it would be like about these discounts... I didn't have time to discuss it before when I applied for it. Of course, for a one-off fee in the first year it would be 98%, just as it is now. in Warsaw. When a one-off fee is paid in the second year of the conversion, it would be 80% , in the third, 62% , then 44%, 26% and 10% , as it has so far been written in the bill. And these are proposals, our amendments, my amendments, ladies and gentlemen. If you want to treat all citizens equally in this country, then you have to vote for it to be even, and if you want to treat things differently, go ahead, but don't say... Well, the different words that come out here... Maybe I'll turn the tone down a little bit, 'cause in a little bit, it's Christmas. Yeah, I think it might be a good idea for you to vote for this amendment just today, once, or for you to file a motion to reject this bill yourself, because it really doesn't make sense. And if you don't know it today, you'll find out in a month if this bill goes to the Sejm. It will pass because the procedure is already clear that we are adopting this project. And the Seym will then have to refer only to the project that we will submit. So that in connection with holidays I would advise today to consider whether it is better together, together, to think about the solution, that everyone in Poland should be treated equally, so that there is no division between those who have a building on the grounds of the Treasury, and on those who are exactly... [[Voice from the room: Time...]] Exactly five minutes, I'm in control, Senator. I'm almost done. The point is, there's no inequality. That's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u124	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I guess all the arguments about who, who, who, and why... I would also like to add to that a certain story that occurred during the meeting of the budget committee. I don't know if Senator Klein talked about it, but if he did... Twice to hear what's important, sometimes it's worth it. At the meeting of the budget committee, Mr President, with the whole committee and the minister of the choir: Fraud! That's cheating! That's cheating! And other terms like that. Christmas, I'm coming, I thought it was a Christmas spirit, and here all the time the vocabulary wasn't conducive to the atmosphere of the time we're in. We appealed with Senator Kleina... Minister... Finally, the atmosphere was almost serene. We meet in the morning at 8:00. What do you mean, 8:00? Some came, some didn't. Well, it's even more idyllic! No problem, the Warsaw Council has already announced, the President has announced... It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. So? [[The devil has turned...]] And it turns out some devil turned you guys off. And then you start the same melody again. Come on, you guys. I don't want to use the word... Did they think it was worth filming? There you go! These scams, rakes, and other words that occur today when discussing this kind of bill... I will no longer comment on this, looking at Senator Radziwiłł. I'd like to ask you... [[It's a waste of energy.]] ...of what, but election fraud Don't use it! We can give examples here, and I will only speak of one thing. After all, we spoke recently and here, from this stand I quoted your electoral programme and the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło regarding VAT. I know it's not cheating, maybe it's a mistake. And I didn't use those words, I just said you weren't doing the whole election program. [[That's cheating!]] No, I don't use words like that. Therefore, I ask you, do not use these words, for you speak harshly to them, the worse it is for you. As for the question of why you're introducing this... I don't know why you're doing this, what's the point. But listening to Senator Radziwiłł's statement, because I've been very fond of listening to your senator lately... Mr. Senator said, "We're doing it because the Senate isn't sleeping!" Mr. Senator, the Senate in the Law and Justice issue is very vigilant about what Novgorodka will tell you. You guys are totally asleep. I say, you sleep completely when it comes to what the merits of the case are. Is this the right thing to do, Senator and Dear Senators of Law and Justice? Should the Land Management Act, which applies to all Poles, be conducted at such a time? Well, if it's wisdom and not sleep, then I've already lost my ability to distinguish between concepts. You're only waking up on those things you've been calling fraud, looting and other things. However, this kind of law, which concerns a large part of Poles, must be considered prudently, after all, the Senate is a chamber of reflection. You have to think, do an analysis, compare these things. And now I'm moving on to what triggered your position. Well, I'm not gonna talk about whether it's a lost election or some frustration. These are the things you have in your heart and understand, I don't know what it is. But what I want to say is that the Warsaw Council had no need to believe in the wisdom of the Polish parliament because they said so. What's up here? Well, since it's 60% and that is the proposal, it would be good if in a unitary country these conditions were similar, and it was not so that today in one block in Warsaw one neighbor would have 98% And the other 60%. And you don't think that's sleeping in your head? This is... The mind is asleep! When does he sleep? When emotions work. You're emotional. Which is why I'm asking you to reject this bill. And if we want to prepare her as the Senate I said, "We're the Senate." Let's do it calmly, without emotion, do what the senate majority will satisfy, which will be well received by society. And how do you now want to explain to those who have 60% that some people will have 98%? ? Well, I'm very curious. Therefore, I ask you very much on behalf of the Senators of the Law and... the Civic Platform... [[Joy in the Chamber]] And the Law and Justice also, because I like you and that there is this period. Therefore, I ask you, let's postpone this discussion to January, February, unless you know that there will be elections in March and you want to make it before the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You should have applied for rejection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u126	Senator Boris-Damięcka has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wouldn't have spoken if I hadn't been irritated by Senator Radziwiłł, using these words of yours: trickery, forgery, etc. Senator, we ordinary citizens, Poles appreciate Polish aristocracy very much, but we also demand it. Because it is possible to use a good, Polish, strict language, not to say what spit on the tongue will bring. The senator himself proposed not so long ago to slow down anger, temperaments, get down to the ground, etc. I would recommend the same to the senator. The word "trick" in your mouth is outrageous because it seems to me that I read and heard that it was the progress of the Czartoryski family that brought out from Poland a huge amount of money, making a deal detrimental to Polish culture. That's why many times... [[Applause]] That's why it's been written, read, and so on. We have accepted with extraordinary sadness that this has happened, even though we do not accept it. So I would also appeal to the senator for restraint in the future, because that's how I see the senator, and you, in your dwarfship, are developing a lot from sitting to sitting. I don't know what's causing this. And more and more often, you're talking about everything, but not always, so to speak, you're touching the point. And that's why we're all outraged about these proportions... The state refers to Warsaw all the time. I, as a resident of Warsaw and a senator from Warsaw, who for 12 years deals with problems and matters of Warsaw, just concerning property transformations, housing, tenants, etc., I would like to say that Warsaw has above all exceptional complications, because most buildings are placed partly on local land, but fragments of these buildings are standing e.g. on the territory of the Treasury. And how is that transformation supposed to look like? That's the point. That's it. - within the meaning of the average Pole I consider myself to be at the moment. In order to align and to make it fair, that regardless of whether it is self-government land or the Treasury, the Pole was treated equally. And so is the Polish woman. Equal treatment in various cases. It doesn't complicate anyone's life, it doesn't cause any revolution, it's not political at all. This is a social matter, a citizen, which belongs to all of us. And please stop worrying about the fact that the President of Warsaw barely won the election, made that decision, because, first of all, he apologized immediately to everyone for his mistake, confessed to him and took all the blame for it, did not direct it to other people, second, this mistake has been corrected, and I will not use the word "force" to draw attention to the Warsaw Council that she should sit down again and think about it. What's so wrong with someone trying to make up for their mistake? Is that a sin? What's this? We're here to make up for our mistakes. And please do not add such emotions to this matter, so that all of Poland shakes because of the tragedy in Warsaw. Because there's no tragedy if someone confesses to a mistake, and yet this mistake doesn't have any consequences. Neither financial, nor social, nor civic, nor nationwide, any. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u128	Senator Bierecki's voice is yours. [[But I think Mr. Radziwill was checking in.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] In what mode, Senator? [[Corrigendum.]] Correct? I'll have the senator in a moment. [[Good.]] Mr. Senator, maybe from a point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask your marshal to intervene, because the third senator is taking a tour of my origin, my family. I don't see any connection to this debate... I didn't say anything about the country, the Klein family, the Flork family, the Boris family, and all of you are making trips to something that has nothing to do with this issue, plus my mom's family. I just don't get it. That's one big inappropriate thing. I would ask you to pay attention to this inappropriateness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u130	I appeal to the senators to stop their personal tours. Senator Bierecki has the floor. Second time, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u131	Yes. Thank you very much. Actually, the senator took part of my speech from me. I would like to apologize for the behaviour of these countries. That's actually extremely rude. But this is such proof that if you don't have anything to say ad rem, you say ad personam. Unfortunately, some of them represent such a political culture. When my previous speaker came out, I was hoping that as a Senator from Warsaw he would raise matters that were important to the inhabitants of Warsaw. After making this senate initiative public, we receive a lot of emails, calls from Warsaw residents, who are reporting to us further problems that we should address and which should perhaps be regulated under this law. As it turns out, it's a hoax to rob people of money. The less you give them, so that they pay more, it takes place in many different areas. I will quote a fragment of the e-mail that I received from the legal adviser representing the Muranów population group, and it concerns the question of interpretation of the rules by the officials of the capital city of Warsaw. These officials claim that this bonus must not apply to garages, that the garages will not be covered. The residents are concerned about this interpretation. This may mean that the conversion of perpetual use rights under the garage to Muranów, where the annual fee for the garage is 700 PLN, may cost 14 thousand PLN, because without the increase. Well, it's a problem very... I asked the Minister for office earlier. I know that the Ministry is preparing an interpretation, but it would be important if the Minister in this stand were to address this issue. Well, you can see that a lot of different actions are being taken to make people pay more to take their money. The example I presented to you is the increase in the charge for the use of the perpetual 50-metre flat from PLN 500 to PLN 1 000 100 at the 60% discount, which was previously proposed... Ladies and gentlemen, this means that this Warsaw resident for this transformation would pay PLN 4,000 800 more if these rates were maintained if this increase in the perpetual use charge would be maintained. We have to say this, destroy it. A provision that works retroactively is needed and is in line with the constitution because it is beneficial for citizens. Let me repeat: it is beneficial for citizens. You can do it and you have to do it. On the other hand, on this important issue, about the garages... Well, more attempts are being made to interpret this law to the detriment of the inhabitants. I would very much ask the Minister to present this interpretation, to take a stand here from this stand. Thank you very much. Once again, Mr. Senator Radziwiłł, we ask you not to stop in your speeches. [[Oh, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u132	You have a voice, Senator Augustine. The second performance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! So many statements from the PiS senators and not a single word about what we're asking for here. Senator Bierecki was hypothetically speaking, as much as the Warsaw people would have to pay more if they hadn't returned to the previous large increase. Mr. Senator, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, more must be paid by the people of Warsaw who have land... [[It's easy to count.]] ...who owns the State Treasury. Isn't that what you're worried about? These calculations don't touch the state? Really, I appeal... Right, you have to, like Senator Florek said, as Senator Kleina said in relation to businessmen, for example...What Senator Bierecki said was that there are other matters to regulate. But today we can settle this one housing issue in a very simple way. Let's do it. Let's do it the right way, just the same for everyone. I don't understand this stubbornness at all. Unless your intentions are completely different from those you're talking about. Really, I don't find any argument. So what's it like? Care Maybe that's the argument. What about the state budget? And caring about the government budget is already a completely different pair of galoshes, isn't it? What's it like? It's about public funds, too. Well, have mercy on those Warsaw people who will have to pay so much more when it comes to State Treasury land. This needs to be leveled. I call for amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u134	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Florek, Augustine and Klein. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yes.]] I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be very brief. Since we speak so much about justice, it is necessary to say what I said at the beginning: that justice means the end of perpetual use after 1 January 2019. This is a solution which is a fair solution and which was prepared by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Because every form, regardless of the height of the bonus or base, because the bonus is always from something... To give the bonus, you have to multiply the annual fee. We have assumed that this payment is 20 annual fees and from this amount grant the increase. And any basis that is the basis for calculating this fee can be and very often it is . treated as unfair, socially incomprehensible, resulting from a mechanism which is inadequate for the market economy. To the economy in which we own our property in the form of a house and apartment, separate property, and at the same time we do not own the land. And we're doing it on January 1, 2019. However, I would just like to appeal that in this debate we should not miss this main issue, the issue which Poles have been expecting for a really long time. And it seems to me that this expectation should have been brought to an end much earlier by law. Today we propose this and this law will have such effect from 1 January 2019. The State has taken on the burden of implementing this law. Because I hope we can find a common field here as well. Well, the whole operation of converting perpetual use into property must end with an entry in the perpetual book. Without effective, quick, efficient regulation of these issues in the eternal books Poles would have legitimate pretensions towards the rulers that the whole thing is not fully prepared. Therefore, the need to provide each year, from next year onwards, additional, gigantic funds spent on perpetual accounting courts in Poland, for this operation of the patronage of Poles. Because this is over PLN 120 million each year, which we want to allocate to deal with this issue quickly and efficiently, and take this into account also in this debate if you are to compile and compare. I don't want to heat up this and so hot discussion here anymore, but I think those who understand the mechanism also understand what I mean. And I will also draw your attention to the fact that we have worked through this law, we have a thoughtful, clear, legible, and, moreover, an unchangeable position, i.e. we do not change it between October and December several times, in terms of the method of payment for perpetual use, that is a fact. And the fact is that the City Council of Warsaw acted exactly the opposite way towards Warsaw. It is also a fact, gentlemen, and you must be honest to me and to each other that the amendments made by Senator Kleina and Senator Augustine are completely excluded. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much for at least realizing that you are making mutually exclusive amendments in this respect. And to answer Senator Bierecki's question... Well, I'm saying... [[The people of Muranov.]] Excuse me? [[The people of Muranov.]] And the inhabitants of Warsaw, including the inhabitants of Muranów... Of course, this is a question that concerns not only the inhabitants of Warsaw... [[All of them.]] ...applies to all endless users of the garages. Well, if we're dealing with garages that involve transformation Because not all garages include transformation, I no longer want to go back to the purpose of the law, which is the purpose of housing, there are possible similar conditions of discounts as in the case of dwellings. We have defined that the voucher is of an individual character rather than an individual character, so that we have a dwelling or a single-family home with which the garage or a parking space are connected, on the basis of the technical provisions that should correspond to the buildings and their location, or on the basis of the property law of the premises where it is defined, which is part of the dwelling... under the same conditions we treat the garage. Without going into details, I will say that local governments have the possibility to establish discounts also. for underground parking spaces or garages related to residential property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u136	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. You have a voice, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am applying for an additional report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to carry out a third reading of this bill at the current Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u138	Thank you. Senator Grabowski has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u139	Thank you. Messages. Meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the consideration of amendments tabled to the draft law amending the Law on Real Estate Management and the Act on the conversion of perpetual land used for housing purposes into property rights of these land, Senate printing No 1063, will take place today, 20 December 2018, at 15.45 p.m. in room No 307. Meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting for a draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 The year of the Lublin Union will be held at 15.45 in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u140	Thank you. I declare adjournment until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 56 to 16 minutes 05]] I'm reopening the session. I'm asking the secretaries to take their seats. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1058, and the report of the committee In print No 1058 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2018. The National Economy and Innovation Commission has examined the bill. I would like to add that the current support system for cogeneration units expires at the end of this year, and therefore the initiative to introduce a new support system this year, so that it will start to apply from 1 January 2019. This law introduces a new system that will replace the existing mechanism based on the form of certificates of origin. The Act also aims to reduce adverse environmental phenomena while ensuring security of supply of heat and electricity, and to improve the efficiency of the use of energy carriers through the development of efficient cogeneration. Cogeneration is the system which in Polish conditions of the heating and energy sector allows to use at a much higher level the efficiency of the energy source, and by generating both electricity and heat energy... And modern systems in polygeneration processes also allow the production of clean fuels. The support scheme submitted to the Senate is a system in which specific objectives are to be achieved as a result of the promotion of high-efficiency cogeneration electricity from 4 categories of generation installations. The first category is the existing and modernised cogeneration units with installed capacity of 1 and 50 MW. The second is the new and significantly modernised cogeneration units of the same capacity, 1 The third category is new and significantly modernised cogeneration units with installed capacity above 50 MW. The fourth is existing and modernised cogeneration units with installed electricity capacity above 50 MW. The Act provides for the promotion of the generation of electricity in high-efficiency cogeneration only for those installations which will introduce useful heat produced in the same process into the district heating network. The introduction of this criterion will fulfil the key task of the mechanism, which is to reduce the phenomenon of low emissions and consequently . Improving air quality. It is also indicated in this Act that in the case of cogeneration units not meeting the criterion of entry into the district heating network at least 70% utility heat produced in high-efficiency cogeneration will only be allowed to support that part of electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration, which will correspond proportionally to the amount of useful heat introduced into the district heating network. At the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Legislative Bureau submitted 10 comments on the contested law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation proposes to adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u142	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a request for minorities. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I have news that Senator Augustine is in the hallway. Well, maybe we should wait a minute. [[He's in the hallway. I'll get him.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] It's a five-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're back in session. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee on national economy and innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, these applications consist of two parts. The first part, the legislative part, are those proposals which the Legislative Office has put forward and which we have maintained as a legitimate, improved quality of this submission. But one amendment is extremely important, namely so far this whole support system has obviously affected prices. I'm gonna go It also affects prices. But there was no additional charge that would be charged to individual citizens. Now you want to introduce an additional burden on households in the form of a cogeneration fee. We're against it. And this falls into a time when it is not yet known how to get out of this proposal increases in electricity prices, and at a time when electricity prices, when electricity prices in Poland are the highest moments in Europe. Let's not do this. Surely a much more sensible solution would be to extend the existing rules by a year, but it would go beyond the matter of this submission, because it is a separate act, and I am talking about a law that is currently in force. Therefore, we could not make such an amendment. That is why I ask you to accept this amendment. Let us not burden citizens with additional burdens. Today there was a lot of talk about different, so to speak, failure to keep my promises, I'm after Christmas Eve, so I didn't want to use a stronger word. You also promised not to impose additional burdens on people, on households. Now it's a test. And I urge you to keep your word.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u144	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We're talking about high... [[Which senator's question is that?]] Please? [[Which senator's question is that?]] To the main rapporteur. [[I'd like to invite the senator.]] We're talking about high-efficiency cogeneration. I understand that she's much better than the one we've been able to use so far. Does this mean that we have a certain proportion of combustion, e.g. Coal and waste or biomass or something? Because it is worth saying out loud that the ordinary user knows what this cogeneration means for a good cause and what it means to be highly efficient. That's the first question. And the second question is how many energy plants in the country that meet the standards for producing heat and electricity from this cogeneration combustion, and how much more would we have to build? Because if we want to promote this way of gaining heat and energy, then we want to expand these heat and power plants. That's two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u146	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Senator! These are the two subjects that the senator raised. Co-incineration and cogeneration is like... Co-incineration may be in the cogeneration process, but not necessarily. It may be, but it doesn't necessarily have to be. This law affects the process in which through the use of solid fuels and gaseous fuels, including coal, lignite and gas, we also produce heat in addition to electricity. High-performance cogeneration is a result of which a very large amount of heat is generated by these processes. In this bill, we say that those installations that produce the amount of heat calculated on the amount of energy produced, used in the heating grid... If it's over 70% they will be fully taken into account in supporting this high-efficiency cogeneration. If they have a lower efficiency, this unit will be calculated proportionally. I would also like to stress here that efficient cogeneration also includes methane, which is accompanied by... During the mining of solid minerals, including coal, in active mines, in liquidated mines, as well as destroyed mines... And it can also be further used, also in the process of high-efficiency cogeneration, which will allow for support for new installations. This law differs from the previous law in such a way that the previous law supported cogeneration energy based on certificates, and here we move away from certification, we enter another modern support space, namely the one that grants these installations which are either upgraded or replaced with completely new units. And that's the difference. This support system will be directed directly to those installations which are new or modernised. Except there's also the assumption that the cost of modernization can't exceed 100% the estimated value of the new installation on the market. How many district heating plants are there, it's hard for me to say right now. Poland is a country in which the heating system, the district heating system is very well developed. Therefore, the use of cogeneration is of the utmost benefit to the interests of the State, the interests of Poland, because we can thus achieve the objectives set in the EU ETS and in this BAT framework. Well, I'd go into a slightly broader area of clarification here. This law will now support all those plants and heat and power plants that have an outdated, in short, machinery park These heating and energy blocks are obsolete, for renovation And which will simply bear the burden of modernization and then get support, even... I don't want to talk about percentages here right now, because here's this catalog... But there's a lot of support. Then maybe the Minister will talk more about it later. [[Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u148	Yes, please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u149	But how else are we going to prevent emissions? Because here's another statement: it's going to help us protect the climate. But from what you're saying, we're going to burn mostly coal. Yes? Is it possible to co-generate when burning coal and other...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u150	This law is absolutely not limited to burning coal. This law states that all cogeneration installations can be supported by this mechanism, regardless of what fuel they are based on. That's one thing. Secondly, if we are talking about reducing or eliminating low emissions, this law fits very well. Why? Because the biggest low-emission phenomena are accompanied by when coal is burned in old, outdated boilers, mostly home-made, or when waste is burned. In the case of modernization of heating plants producing not only heat but also energy, there is a significant reduction in low emissions, because these plants use filtration systems, completely different systems, based on modern combustion, as well as using the entire combustion process. Here the risks associated with low emissions, i.e. pollution of the environment with these dusts suspended at low altitudes, are completely removed. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u151	The question is Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u152	I, if I may, have a question for a minority representative. [[Mr. Senator, Minority Representative, there's a question for you.]] Question one. [[Yes?]] You spoke of Europe's highest energy prices. Was that really the subject of the committee's deliberations? And which countries are given as those where energy is absolutely cheaper? Do you know a country like this? Portugal where, according to Eurostat, this is such a relatively reliable data source Is there absolutely the highest price of electricity and heat in Europe? On what basis do you claim that Poland has the highest energy prices in Europe? Please state the source. And second question. That question refers to that supplement you were talking about. Have you ever heard of a supplement that has existed for a long time, an addition to renewable energy that Poles get? Because you said this was the first such case. Have you ever heard of such an addition? Are you aware of his existence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u153	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u154	First of all, it's good to listen carefully. If the senator had listened carefully, he would have heard that energy prices are the highest moments in Europe. I checked it out on the stock market. Depends on what time... [[I didn't...]] Well, as you know, the stock market price depends on it. Secondly, as for this supplement, I didn't say that there was no such supplement, I just said that you promised that there wouldn't be any new ones. And this one's new.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u155	Are there any further questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? [[There isn't.]] No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Tomasz Dąbrowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the moment, this is already a law adopted by the Sejm which has put in place support mechanisms for high-efficiency cogeneration. They were designed differently than the existing mechanisms supporting this way of generating electricity and heat in one process. We have decided to introduce a much more precise mechanism for those who produce energy in cogeneration, much better targeted and therefore much, much cheaper for all electricity consumers. I would like to remind you that in the proposed legislation, instead of certificates, we are currently dealing with a guaranteed premium, which is intended for small cogeneration units, i.e. less than 1 MW, as well as new and significantly upgraded and existing and upgraded cogeneration units with a capacity from a range of 1 to 50 MW, which will be granted after the operator has submitted an appropriate application and after it has been examined by the regulator. We also provide for a guaranteed individual premium. It will be used for existing and upgraded cogeneration units above 50 MW, will be calculated individually by the President of the URE and will be granted after the operator has submitted an appropriate application. The cogeneration premium will be granted to new and significantly modernised cogeneration units with a capacity of 1 and 50 MW, it will be possible to obtain under the auction procedure, which must be preceded by an appropriate pre-qualification of the unit concerned, and there will be an individual cogeneration premium for cogeneration units with a capacity of more than 50 MW. That's what's causing... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... There's such an unpleasant murmur in the courtroom, and you don't listen well to the minister. Please turn the conversation down. You're welcome, Minister.]] This results in the application of the mechanisms I have put forward in order to reduce the total cost of the support scheme borne by the recipients. The question has just been raised, firstly, with regard to the costs of this system, secondly, with an additional fee. And I'd like to make a brief reference to that, because it might be misleading. Because today's support system is also funded by electricity consumers, but the difference is that the cost of the system is hidden in the price of electricity. In turn the cost of this system will be transparently shown to the recipient. But that's not all. The cost of the current system is about PLN 1.5 billion, the exact size can be found in the impact assessment accompanying the government draft law, which is included in the Seym Printing No. 3052, where we also presented all calculations related to the costs of this support system. In turn, the new support system will cost just over 200 million. This means that the recipients will pay more than 1 billion 300 million less annually for the support system, with the result that we will achieve being similar. This translates into very specific amounts. If we assume that the average household in Poland consumes 2.5,3 MW per year, then assuming the unit cost of support, which was presented in the impact assessment, i.e. PLN 1.58 per MWh, we receive an annual cost of PLN 4.5 compared to PLN 37 which is borne by the recipients today. This means that the implementation of this system on the part of the recipients will save around PLN 30, and depending on the size of consumption it will be PLN 27.33. Plus, it'll give you this. effect in the form of transparency of what the recipients pay for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u157	Wait a minute, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The first question you ask is Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshall, and I apologize for the quality of my voice today. Minister, cogeneration is a good thing, and we don't have to find out in this group. Everyone knows that if it is well-informed, its efficiency reaches up to 95%. And she's funding herself. But what do we have today? We have a selective law that deals with dozens of producers who, to be honest, have a locally risk-free business. My question concerns Art. 63 and that question, Minister, is for you. According to this article, you will see Anyone who is connected to a transmission network, distribution network or directly to manufacture will pay a cogeneration fee. And you swore, Minister, and you said there would be no increase in energy prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u159	I answer the question of why cogeneration needs support when it is highly efficient and one of the best ways to convert primary fuel into final energy. Unfortunately, in the case of heat and power plants, the production of electricity, the production of heat, which determines the revenue stream that can be used to finance expenditures and to cover fixed and variable costs, depends primarily on the demand for heat. This demand for heat determines the amount of electricity production. This in turn causes the CHP plant to work in a year In terms of the number of hours less than a conventional power plant. Less production, or less working hours per year, causes fixed costs to fall into fewer units of goods produced and this affects the unit cost of production. If production could be increased during the year, as for example. This is done in industrial power plants, which can work almost 7 000 hours and not only about 4 000 hours, this unit cost would be much, much lower, because the sum of all fixed costs would be divided by a larger number in the denominator, which would result in a lower unit cost. The case of the Art. 63 and the deletion of the provision which states that the final recipients bear the cost of this system. As I mentioned in the introduction, today it is also that consumers bear the costs of this system, except that these costs are hidden in the price of energy and are not visible. The project makes this cost 8 times, between 8 and 9 times lower than the current cost of the system, because the aid is better calculated and more precisely chosen in terms of the needs of the company, i.e. there is no oversupport. If the High House decided to accept this amendment, that would mean two things. Or vanquishing this system. Because de facto there is no way to finance the operation of the support system and at the same time increase in costs on the part of heat consumers. The lack of regulation of cogeneration means no support for 60%... 60% heat in Poland is delivered to customers from cogeneration. Or it would mean what was also raining in previous speeches, an extension of the current system, which is not 8 times cheaper. Therefore, it seems that a much more rational step is to adopt this solution and to grant the recipients a reduction of 30 zlotys per year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u160	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will ask you about the issue that I raised at the committee meeting, but the Minister has not given me any information. She's talking about electricity prices. This issue is linked to this law in the sense that the cogeneration law affects the final level of electricity prices for final customers. My question is more general and I would ask... Of course, I don't mean a longer statement. My request made yesterday morning at the meeting to be separate information from the Minister for Energy on energy prices for next year was not supported by the High House, so I must unfortunately ask in such a formula. Here's the question. What will be the level of electricity prices in the next year for individual customers and .. mostly for entrepreneurs? I am asking this at this point, at this time, because many entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, are now being called upon to sign new price agreements in force on 1 January during the pre-Christmas period. And the problem is that from the information they provide... the phone informant of the energy operator, e.g. Energi, says if the entrepreneur doesn't sign the new contract, he will be paying much higher bills from 1 January. And according to these proposals, I don't want to develop it anymore. The prices that are now coming are at least 30% too. higher than previous prices. It's just information about what entrepreneurs are supposed to do in this situation. We know because we hear from your messages that there is some work going on in this matter, but there is no official message that would somehow close this case. And believe me, this is a huge crowd of people, so that in this pre-Christmas period they seem to be entitled to some information. The question is, are they supposed to sign an agreement? And then they will have a slightly lower price than the price that would put them in the undergate situation, because they would have to accept the catalog price on general terms, or should they refrain from it, because the proposals that entrepreneurs reach are still offering prices much higher? I can even deliver this letter, which reaches entrepreneurs e.g. from the Energa group, where this problem is clearly mentioned. So that it's not a desire to be political in this case, it's just that we need some information, I think, right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u162	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u163	As far as the level of energy prices for next year is concerned, I would like to say first of all that the implementation of these solutions will reduce the cost to the final consumer, because, as I explained, the cost of the support system that is in the bill today will be lower. As far as prices for households are concerned, the tariff process is underway and here is the regulator, which is independent and therefore no one intends to interfere in this process. As for the agreements that Mr Senator referred to, it is difficult to say what is in these agreements, so it is difficult to say anything about what the subject is going to do. Of course, in this part of the market, which is a free market, there are different behaviours of market participants. Sometimes it's testing or testing how far you can go with some proposals. If offers are unsatisfactory, there is a very wide-ranging possibility to change the seller. As far as the level of energy costs is concerned, we don't see any fundamental grounds for increasing these prices right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u164	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u165	I must ask, Minister, because, however, the presidents of energy companies are legally responsible for their policies, including management policy, and for decisions taken on behalf of the company. Therefore, if there is such responsibility and no one has challenged it so far, they must act in accordance with market principles. So the question is: how is the government going to behave with regard to energy companies when it comes to the matter that we have been discussing for many, many, many days? Namely, it is a danger that there will be an increase in energy prices, not only for collective entities, but also for individual entities, i.e. companies and individuals who practice their own individual economic activity. What is the government's position on this matter? 'Cause you didn't put up that position. [[That's not the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u166	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u167	I'll answer that. Like I said, there's no fundamental reason for prices to go up. That's one thing. On the part of the government, of course, we can take action, such as: that law, which aims to reduce operating costs. Here I presented profits for customers in the form of PLN 1 billion 300 million per year. This is a substantial amount, even on the scale of the energy sector, with a cumulative EBITDA of around 40 billion. Let me remind you that in the summer, an initiative was taken by the Minister of Energy. At a time when the prices of CO2 emission allowances were rising, the European Commission looked at whether there had been any concerted practices on this market. The initiative itself led to a decrease in the prices of emission allowances of about EUR 8/9 at a peak point. There is a whole range of measures that can be taken to reduce energy prices by reducing costs. Of course, energy companies are still able to look at the cost side in order to reduce operating costs so that ultimately the price of energy does not increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u168	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is my last question. For 3 years we have been overpaying in our accounts by paying a fee that doesn't really help cogeneration installations, because they would function peacefully without this surcharge. Meanwhile, the introduction of this law, whatever it may be said, will cause us to move on with new accounts and move on with a new payment to each account. According to the experts, it'll be up to 2.80 a month. So, Minister, no matter what you say, you raise your bills as of 1 January 2019, although we do not know right now, since the Minister of Energy said a few days ago that you have 1 billion savings in energy companies. So what's the move? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will provide information on the basis of documents that are available to you. This is Seym Printing No.3052, Impact Assessment Page 4, Table 1, where the costs of the current support system have been precisely shown. Therefore, speaking of an additional fee is completely unlawful, because the only change that is made through these rules is to make what is hidden today public and thus cost much less. I don't know which experts the senator refers to, but if we reach the OSR and divide the figures given in Table 1... [[That's the OSR...]] ...by the size of consumption, we'll get the size I was talking about. In addition, in the impact assessment on page 24, Annex 5 shows the amount of the fee broken down by rate taking into account and without taking into account any reductions for energy-intensive customers for which reduction is planned to be introduced. Let me remind you that the calculations that have been made are based on actual data on consumption, production volume and what will be eligible for the new support scheme, taking into account the investment declarations of energy companies, so as to include in future costs what may appear as a support system. Therefore, I will stress once again, first of all, that this is not a new fee, only what was previously hidden in the energy price, is shown to the customer on the bill so that he knows what he is paying for. Secondly, through the creation of a mechanism which is a targeted mechanism, the inefficiency of the existing certification system, which distributed support regardless of cost and possible financial loss, which occurred with entrepreneurs, is eliminated and thus the total cost of this system is much, much lower. [[That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u172	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senator Komarnicki spoke on the record. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm ordering a 15-minute recess. I'll add that after the break there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 44 to 16 minutes 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u173	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, may I remind you that the next sitting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I'll read it. I'll make a very important announcement. [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] I would remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 23 and 24 January 2019. But I'll tell you right away that I'm not ruling out that there's gonna be an additional Senate meeting, 28 or 29... [[December?]] It's... it's... it's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If that is the decision, I will inform the High House accordingly. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The second reading of this project... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] The second reading of this project took place at the 60th Senate meeting on 14 December 2018. The Senate sent the draft law to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject, in print No 879 X. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 3 joint committees followed the amendments tabled during the debate. As you know, the amendments gave the right to join the supplementary schemes of PPE and PPK to the parliamentarians of the Polish Parliament on the principles that apply to all covered by the social security system. Amendments were not to be considered, there was a request to consider the adoption of the law without amendments... As a result of the vote, the amendments were passed and the bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians are asked not to go on medical leave. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And if someone's a forest grandfather...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u175	Do Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł and Senator Jan Rulewski want to speak? No. Good. During the second reading, a legislative proposal was tabled by Senator Rulewski and Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł was the rapporteur of the joint committee after the first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the draft law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the provisions of the draft. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the draft Print Act No 879 in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to reject the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the draft law and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this case. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the act on promoting electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments, while a minority of committees asks for amendments to the Act; Senate print No 1058-A. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 56 for, 27 against. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code. The Legislative Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1038 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Code. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on notariat. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1049 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Notariat. We return to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1042 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged this committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting, which is published in print No 1063X. We proceed to the third reading of the bill. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. At its meeting today, the Commission commented on the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. The Commission has supported the proposal contained in point 4 of the table of proposals and proposes that the Senate adopt it together with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, the legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Kazimierz Kleina. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text of the draft in print No 1063 X, followed by the adoption of the draft No 1063 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 5 should be voted together. These amendments aim to limit the possibility of charging for the first 2 years after updating the annual fees for too large amounts where the updated annual fee exceeds at least one and a half times the current annual fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 26 for... [[28 A.S.A.]] ...28 for, 58 against. [[Voting No 33]] Amendments 1 and 5 were rejected. Amendments 2 and 6 should also be voted together. They aim to increase the amount of the discount on the one-off levy for conversion, starting from the first year in which the conversion took place, by gradually reducing it in each subsequent year from the conversion into property owned by the State Treasury. These amendments are also intended to leave Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 laws in the version so far. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 34]] Amendments 2 and 6 were rejected. Amendment 3 aims to increase the amount of the reduction granted in the case of a one-off levy for the conversion of the land owned by the Treasury in each year following the conversion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted against, 28 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 3 was rejected. Amendment No 4 seeks to align the amount of the increase granted to the owners of residential buildings for the conversion of the land owned by the State Treasury with that which the competent authority of the local government unit in whose area the land is situated has granted on the basis of a resolution of the relevant municipal council, but it cannot be less than that specified in the Act at the current level. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 for, 56 against. [[Voting No 36]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Shame!]] Excuse me? [[That's a good adjustment. But he'll be back in the Seym.]] [[It's a disgrace.]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption by the committee of the draft law and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law contained in print no. 1063. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] For... Well, you can vote in favour, you can vote against, and you can hold back. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 57 votes against, 4 against and 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] In view of the results of the voting office, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Real Estate Management and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into property rights of these land and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Adam Gadawa to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting; it is in print No 952 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Alexander Swede, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. At its meeting today, the Commission commented on the proposal that had been tabled in the course of the discussion. The Commission, by 11 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention, did not support the proposal in the compilation and brings forward by the Senate a single draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of the Lublin Union in its 450th anniversary in print No 952 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u179	Thank you. Do Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz or Senator rapporteur Jan Maria Jackowski still want to speak? [[Thank you. I've already said what I had to say.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the amendment in print No 952 X and then on the adoption of the draft No 952 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz; print No. 952 X. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Anybody hold up? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 54 against. [[Voting No 38]] Now we're going to vote on the draft without an amendment, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 of the Year of the Lublin Union in 450 years of its conclusion; print No 952 S. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 84 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union in the 450th anniversary of its conclusion. I'm informing you that... [[Voice from the room: Now...]] I'll go sign. [[Senator Antoni Szymanski: There are no statements?]] [[They're ……]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u180	I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 60th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[I have a statement.]] I know, Mr. Senator, I'm just waiting for the room to calm down a little bit. Come in, sir. There you go. [[I'll drive. I'll be preparing my position.]] There you go. Of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm so sorry. We'll proceed with the statements. Now I can read it, Mr. Senator, because it's already quiet. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! My senator's statement is addressed to Mr Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman, and Mr Krzysztof Michalkiewicz, the government's representative for people with disabilities. I would like to ask the question that a non-governmental organisation has asked me about a provision restricting the rights and obligations of persons with disabilities who take up work. It's about the article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. According to the information provided to me by the Foundation, the current legal provisions limit the possibility of revalorising the pension benefit by paying social security contributions, which everyone is obliged to pay at the time of employment. In accordance with the legal status of persons with disabilities who have taken up work without complying with the conditions laid down in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, they may not revalorise their pension benefit on the basis of social contributions paid, unless those persons prove a contribution period of at least 25 years for a woman and 30 years for a man in accordance with Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. It is clear from this provision that some people with disabilities will never be able to prove such long periods of contribution, for example because of their health status and limitations resulting from disability and their shorter lifespan, so that some of them will never benefit from the possibility of revalorising the benefit on the basis of contributions paid, which grossly violates equality and social justice towards those with disabilities. It should also be pointed out that the restrictions resulting from Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 simply discriminate against any disabled person whose disability arose at a child's age without their fault. Let us also not forget about the treatment process, which at child-youth age is the most intense and dominant in the life of every disabled person, and the limitations on the independence of persons who, due to disability, often have problems finding a permanent job or whose disability prevents them from taking any kind of employment. Work, especially for people with disabilities, is an important and essential part of life that makes them a part of social life and, what is important, affects the sense of being needed. Therefore, equality of treatment is very indicated here as one of the elements of reciprocity on which we should care. Thus, the absence of an insurance application before the age of 18, or within 6 months after graduation, discriminates against disabled persons by limiting their rights and obligations. Therefore, the foundation that has applied to me calls for changes. It is about changes that will eliminate grossly unfair treatment of people with disabilities taking up employment and unable to fulfil the condition of the Article because of their own fault. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and at the same time Art. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 completely deprives them of the possibility of making any use of contributions paid over the years. Each of us, Poles and Poles, writes this foundation to me. It wants a sense of security, including the material one, so there can be no consent to such a vision of our homeland, in which disabled Poles have worse conditions of access to equal treatment, in which disability, in particular the child's age, is further punished. The primary thing for every Pole should be equality, especially for people with disabilities, which demands social justice. This text, which this foundation has given me, has some emotional elements, but the matter is important and I would like to ask both Minister Michalkiewicz and Minister Bodnar to respond to the problem I have presented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! His statement is addressed to the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Dear Minister, On 13 December, at the press conference, you boasted about the full implementation of the educational reform. However, teachers protests throughout Poland show that this environment is not satisfied with government policy in the field of education. Similar signs of dissatisfaction come from local governments. Many of them indicate that education subsidies are increasingly missing the real costs of the functioning of education in their municipalities and powiats. For example, in Elbląg the total education subsidy for 2019 was planned to be over PLN 137 million, which means an increase of PLN 7.8 million compared to 2018. This increase should take into account the 5% increase in teachers' salaries from 1 January 2019 and the impact of salary increases introduced from 1 April 2018, as well as the effects of changes in the number of teachers' posts and the number of pupils per type of school. The local authorities of Elbląg analysed the amount of the subsidies and concluded that the subsidy did not cover the effects of the wage increases introduced from 1 April 2018. The same was true in 2017. As a result, Elbląg added PLN 4.5 million to teachers' salaries in 2018 and in 2019 it will add another PLN 6.2 million, although these are costs which should be borne by the Ministry of National Education. Therefore, I ask the Minister to recalculate the educational grant and increase its amount for the city of Elbląg by PLN 10 million 200 thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u184	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u185	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Joachim Brudziński. Dear Minister, At present, the MMSWiA is pursuing an increased policy of restoring or opening new police stations. Every now and then we hear that in small towns you are the Minister or Secretary of State, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, cutting ribbons during the opening of new posts. As Senator of West Pomeranian land, I ask you about the possibility of setting up a water police station in Szczecin in Między odrządz. Once within the structure of the city command, there was a police station between the Oder, which currently does not exist. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Szczecin Police garrison has one of the largest water reservoirs to secure. In addition to the size of the area, it is also complicated in terms of administrative law, because inland waters connect here with the sea. This problem does not occur anywhere else in Poland, so it is important that this area of action is well protected. The establishment of this precinct is also supported by the fact that our voivodeship is one of 4 voivodships, in which the largest number of drownings is recorded annually in 2014 and 2017. In addition, among the most important defined problems related to ensuring safety and order in water areas in the voivodship are among others. the lack of flexible movement of forces and resources, the use of water police officers for other tasks, the low use of vessels, the lack of a harmonised training system, as well as the lack of control in waters and coastal areas during the autumn-winter period. I would therefore like to signal the need to address this problem and consider setting up a police station that could work in the structure of the voivodship command and would secure a large water area extending between Gryfin and Goleniowo. In addition to drawing attention to the structural issue, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the lack of appropriate training and lack of equipment that the NIK report has shown. Currently there are only 8 policemen in Szczecin in the Water Paper, and this is far too little for such a large area of activity. In addition to training in the field of water services, no other necessary training is provided, e.g. in the field of diving, operation of radar and sonar equipment and boat transport, for which a C+E driving licence is required. There is also the lack of sufficient personal equipment of a police officer in the form of lifeboats Or uniforms. With this in mind, please answer the following questions. Is the recovery of the water police station in Szczecin considered? Are the plans of the MSWiA or the Police Headquarters intended to equip water cells and restore trainings that once existed? Sincerely, Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice. In connection with media information about the so-called. I would like to ask the Minister to answer the following questions by asking him to increase the use of L4 medical dismissals. Firstly, what is the scale of this phenomenon, or does the Ministry monitor this problem? Secondly, at what stage are talks with protesters? Are such conversations ongoing, and if so, what are the prospects for reaching an agreement? Finally, thirdly, what remedial action has been taken in connection with the fact that this protest may cause delays in court proceedings, which will affect citizens in a particular way? The second statement is addressed to the Minister of National Education in connection with information appearing in the media that the teaching environments in some parts of the country are overstaying on medical sick leave, with L4. I ask the Minister to answer the following questions. First of all, what is the scale of this phenomenon? Secondly, at what stage are negotiations with trade union headquarters and people who are animating this protest? Thirdly, what protective measures have been taken? It appears from statements or media information that this may endanger not only the implementation of the timetable but also the care of children, which would be particularly acute for parents, especially young children. And a third statement, addressed to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall uphold the rights of the child and shall act to ensure the full and harmonious development of the child. Therefore, I ask you to interpret the actions of some municipal prevention and resolution offices, which describe the activities carried out in the annual reports. The reports contain the wording of the pleadings of divorce cases. Such action is contrary to the position of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, who places mediation first in order to save the institution of the full family. I therefore ask you to inform me whether the Ombudsman intends to take action in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u188	Thank you, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to address my statement to my fellow countrymen for the coming Christmas. Christmas in Poland is a unique pietism, treating it as a special opportunity to show affection and brotherly love. This is because they commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the World, who has become one of us so that we may enter God's family with him. He was the first one to reach out to us to make peace with the Father. We've got a pattern for solving any problems. We believed that there was no obstacle that would stop a man of good will from building a true community. We create this community primarily in the family, where at Christmas table we learn to overcome the barriers that divide us. All you have to do is pray together, break the chip, sing carols and have a good time, talk about everyday life. We need such a time to stop in the daily race. Another space for building a community is our local communities. It is important that they are based on strong neighbourly ties and civil relations based on fundamental values. Family, faith and tradition are undisputed priorities here. I am convinced that these values should be nurtured, especially in the age of globalisation, when local culture is increasingly pushed aside, when moral standards are relativised, when divorce rates are increasing, and young people are too easily abandoned to seek easier life. We are helped by parishes, local governments, cultural houses, numerous associations and organizations. On the occasion of the coming Christmas, I give my fellow countrymen the power of the most sincere and warmest wishes. I wish our families, environmental and local communities to be a place where good and peace grow. May the Word, which has become the Body, give us the strength to build a successful future in the coming 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-20-senat-69-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 35]]
